The Project Gutenberg EBook of Ambush, by Ann Wilson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

** This is a COPYRIGHTED Project Gutenberg eBook, Details Below **
**     Please follow the copyright guidelines in this file.     **

Title: Ambush
       A Terran Empire vignette

Author: Ann Wilson

Release Date: June 9, 2008 [EBook #25740]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AMBUSH ***




Produced by Al Haines








  +------------------------------------------------------+
  |  This work is licenced under a Creative Commons      |
  |  Attribution-Non-Commercial-No Derivative Works 3.0  |
  |  Licence.                                            |
  |                                                      |
  |  http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/   |
  +------------------------------------------------------+





AMBUSH

A Terran Empire vignette

by Ann Wilson



Copyright (C) 1992 by Ann Wilson




Palace Complex, 2578 CE

It wouldn't be easy ferreting out the identity of the field agent who'd
saved his bio-father's life twelve years ago.  It wasn't supposed to be
easy--ideally, it would be impossible--and Nevan was sure he owed his
own life, perhaps several times over, to the Imperial safeguards he was
trying to break. More, he understood why those safeguards wouldn't be
relaxed even to allow an ex-agent to search out a still-active one--but
he had what he considered two excellent reasons to do exactly that.

The first was that his bio-father had died, and had wanted Nevan to
give the anonymous agent his personal weapons: two forearm throwing
knives, a belt knife, and a needler.  The one he had sworn fealty to
had agreed that his father's wish made it a matter of honor that he
try, and had given him permission--but on condition that he use only
his own training and skills, taking no advantage of the fact that he
was sworn to one of the most powerful people in the Empire.  Nevan was
certain in his own mind that if he failed, she would see that the agent
got the weapons intended for him, but his thakur's overt reason for
agreeing was that it would make a good test of IntelDiv's security.  If
he were arrested, she would have him released and commend the people
who had done it; if he got through, she would have security procedures
tightened.  Neither paid serious attention to the fact that if he were
caught under certain circumstances she would have no chance to protect
him; he would be shot on sight.

Nevan thought that perfectly reasonable.  He was a Sandeman warrior,
after all, and his thakur was an Irschchan; risks were a normal part of
life for both of them, to be accepted and even savored for the spice
they added.

He had done all he could here, in the Records Section; he lowered his
mind-shield and reached out.  *Thakur?*

Her answer was prompt, and he smiled to himself, enjoying the cool
clarity of her mind-touch.  *What results, thakur-na?* she asked.

*About what we expected.  Kelly told me the agent was Logistics Officer
at a base on Piper's World during the Traiti counter-attacks there, but
he never told me which base, and the description he gave fits five of
them.  I was able to eliminate two of those because the Logistics
Officers were female--but that still leaves three.  I'm going to have
to go under cover to find the right one.*

He "heard" the amused purr that was the Irschchan version of a laugh.
*A return to the field work you enjoy so must be a terrible sacrifice,
my Nevan.*

Nevan let his thoughts lapse into High War Speech, chuckling.  *Nay,
Thakur, as thou knowest well--save that it does mean I must conceal thy
mark, lest it identify me and make thy object in this attempt no true
test.*

*Aye, but it should not be for long.*

*And I knew when I swore that I might have to do it,* Nevan agreed.
*Until my success or failure, then.*

Three days later he was far from Terra, the violet-flower tattoo on his
cheek concealed by synthiskin, in a small Kanchatka-class courier ship.
That was a definite luxury for a private individual, though not
unreasonable for a Sandeman warrior who'd done well securing private
employment and wanted more--who was, in short, a very good, very
expensive hired killer.  There weren't many, granted; killing for its
own sake wasn't highly regarded on Sandeman, especially if anything
more honorable was available, but there were enough to make his cover
plausible.

This, he had decided, was going to be fun.

      *      *      *      *      *

A couple of days later, he was less sure.  He'd come away from the
Palace Complex with as much solid data as he'd ever had starting a
mission, and with as much enthusiasm, but he'd begun feeling less than
comfortable about this one.  Part of it was because he was pursuing
someone he would probably like to have as a friend; the unknown agent
didn't deserve to be hunted, though Nevan had to reluctantly concede
that it was probably the best way to accomplish his thakur's mission.
The other part was that he couldn't seem to decide whether or not he
really wanted to catch his target.  He wanted to make sure the weapons
were delivered, yes, and since his chosen lady wanted a good test of
IntelDiv's security, he had to want it too--but he wasn't happy about
what those desires implied: It was almost inevitable that he'd have to
use some of a field agent's less savory skills.  He'd used them before,
often enough, and without qualms--against the Empire's enemies.  He had
never used them against people who had done nothing to deserve such
treatment, and he didn't really want to.

He didn't have any choice, though.  He would do whatever proved to be
necessary to accomplish his objectives.

      *      *      *      *      *

Three weeks, five planetfalls, and almost 1500 light-years of routine
checking later, Nevan discovered his quarry's name: Kiyoshi Owajima.
So far he'd had to resort to nothing more drastic than reading and
casual conversation, but learning he was after Owajima left him both
disgusted at the gods' whimsical ordering of things and positive that
things would be getting unpleasant rather shortly.  He'd never met
Owajima, though he'd wanted to, and when Nevan had left IntelDiv on
swearing fealty to Ranger Losinj, Owajima had taken over the top field
agent rating.  Owajima was no Sandeman, but IntelDiv rumor had him
close; he was supposed to have been a Kai-school ninja before joining
the Corps, and his exploits since hadn't done anything to contradict
the rumor.  Nevan scowled at that; he hated having to depend on rumor.
Doing that tended to get agents killed--but unless you worked in the
classified section of Personnel Records or knew the agent personally,
rumor was all you'd have on one.  And in Owajima's case, as in Nevan's
own, there wasn't even much rumor.

      *      *      *      *      *

Kiyoshi Owajima concealed a scowl when he finished decoding his
informant's message and read it.  He had a pursuer, it seemed--a
Sandeman warrior named Vance DarLowrie, and the informant was convinced
DarLowrie was one of the rare, expensive, and fearsome Sandeman
free-lance assassins.  That conviction was strengthened by the fact that
DarLowrie had his own ship, the Last Resort, and it was registered to
him personally rather than to Clan Lowrie.  The Sandeman would neither
confirm nor deny that occupation, of course, but the simple fact that
he was attempting to trace an IntelDiv field agent lent still further
credence to the informant's conclusion.

Owajima would have liked more information, but it seemed prudent to act
on the informant's suspicions.  The Sandeman had filed a flight plan
for Olathe, where Owajima had spent some time and built up a
respectable net; that seemed most promising.  It was unfortunate,
Owajima thought, that he was unable to investigate DarLowrie himself;
that would have to wait until he was finished with the final touches on
his present case, a matter of a day or two.

Still, he could begin making preparations.  He would be entitled to a
leave after this mission, and he had planned to take it at home on
Nippon-Ni; that was now an even better idea.  His contacts on his home
world made his networks elsewhere, good as they were, seem like
children's clubs--and it should not be difficult at all to permit
DarLowrie to "discover" those intentions.  It would undoubtedly be
unpleasant for the one he discovered them from, since it was unlikely
DarLowrie would believe information he obtained too easily.

That, however, was not a serious problem; a number of his Olathe
network owed him enough that he could call on them even for such a
service.  It would take DarLowrie perhaps a week to reach Olathe,
another week and a half to get to Nippon-Ni; that would give Owajima
time to make adequate preparations, then visit with his family for
several days.  He smiled to himself, transmitted the necessary
messages, and returned his attention to his immediate mission.

      *      *      *      *      *

Nevan entered the Lucky Bull, a medium-priced bar near the Olathe City
spaceport, and ordered a glass of chocolate milk before finding a table
near the rear of the main room.  In the early days after Annexation,
he'd heard, bars had carried alcoholic beverages almost exclusively,
and Sandemans were made fun of for drinking only the non-alcoholic
variety, but by the time he'd started frequenting bars as an excellent
source of information, the sweet high-energy beverages Sandemans
preferred were as normal as alcohol.

If he had Owajima figured correctly, someone at one of his last two or
three stops should have been in his target's network, and contacted
him.  Even if, as Nevan thought probable, Owajima was working on the
Bracei case, he'd make time to have a presumed assassin investigated.
That was why Nevan had made no secret of his last destinations,
following his flight plans precisely as he'd filed them.  That, and the
fact that a Sandeman hired killer shouldn't display the subtleties and
precautions that would mark him as having had Imperial training of any
sort, particularly a field agent's training; the two simply didn't go
together.

A tall man in Marine service dress with captain's bars approached
Nevan's table, carrying a drink.  "Mind if I join you, warrior?" he
asked.

"If you wish, Captain."

The other sat, looking him over; Nevan returned the scrutiny, waiting.

"I'm Kim Johansen, of SecuDiv," the Marine said at last.  "You're Vance
DarLowrie, just in on the Last Resort?"

Nevan nodded.  "I am, Captain Johansen.  What of it?"

"If you're what rumor calls you and your ship's name implies, I'd
advise you to lay low.  The Baron here takes a dim view of assassins."

"Most people do, except those who have need of one.  I thank you for
your concern, though; I will be careful."

"Good."  Johansen sipped at his drink, frowned.  "A warrior of your
clan saved my life during the war.  I feel a certain obligation to
repay that debt, even if I don't particularly approve of your
occupation myself."

"There's no proof I'm what you guess."

"The fact you don't deny it will be enough for most."  Johansen showed
brief distaste, swallowed the rest of his drink, and rose.  "I can't
wish you luck, since that'd mean wishing someone else dead.  But I can
wish it for your clan, and I do."

Nevan rose to bow.  "I will pass your wishes, and word of your
repayment, to the Lowrie.  Go in peace, Captain Johansen--and please
accept my wishes for your well-being.  Whatever you think of me or my
profession--" most Imperials were as dubious of field agents as they
were of assassins--"I want only the best for the Empire and its
officers."

"Sandemans don't lie, so I accept that," Johansen said.  Then,
grudgingly, "Thank you, warrior."  With that he left, abruptly.

Nevan allowed himself a small smile, then went to get more chocolate
milk. Not too promising so far, but he hadn't been here long, either.

Perhaps half an hour after he returned to his table, another man
approached, this one in an expensive suit.  "Vance DarLowrie?"

"Yes."  Nevan recognized the type; a businesser who'd made enemies and
wanted either protection or one of them eliminated.  "I am not
available at the moment."

"You have other employment?"

"That's none of your concern."

The businesser sat.  "It is if your target is Kiyoshi Owajima, as I've
heard.  I have reason to want him . . . out of the picture."

"Oh?"  Nevan remained noncommittal, but allowed himself to show a trace
of interest.  "I understand he's an Imperial officer--a dangerous
target. Killing him would earn the death penalty or life
imprisonment--death, if done simply for pay.  That's a foolish risk,
when there are any number of almost riskless targets around."

"I can tell you where he's going when he finishes his current mission."

"Interesting, if true," Nevan acknowledged.

"It's true," the businesser said.

Reading his face and body language, Nevan agreed.  The man knew, was
eager to say--and would report to Owajima as soon as he could.  Nevan
made himself look skeptical, which wasn't hard; this was obviously a
setup.  "Even if he were my target, which I do not say, I would want
more than your unsupported word.  Will you submit to truth drugs, or
shall I use Sandeman methods?"

"Torture, you mean."  The businesser grimaced.  "In my position, I
don't dare submit to truth drugs.  And I've no desire to use my pain to
convince you I'm telling the truth."

Nevan shrugged.  "Those are the alternatives."  He didn't particularly
like torture himself, and especially disliked using it on one of a
field agent's network.  But an enemy would have no hesitation, and
until he caught up with Owajima--or was caught himself--he was acting
in that capacity. "If you are convinced Owajima is my target, and you
wish to assist me in finding him, you will choose one.  Otherwise, you
will depart."

The businesser looked angry, but Nevan could see he'd expected
something of the sort.  "The torture, then.  When and where?"

"My ship, now."  Nevan stood.  "Come along."

      *      *      *      *      *

Nevan scowled down at the unconscious businesser.  He'd restricted his
open questioning to Owajima's plans and next location--his homeworld,
not surprisingly--but he'd done some questioning covertly as well,
making comments about Owajima and reading the answers from his
subject's face and body language.  The man had confirmed an opinion
Nevan had formed early: given the opportunity, he and Owajima could
easily become friends.

This man, for instance.  He'd owed Owajima a debt, true, but it had
been loyalty rather than obligation that had led him to help the way he
had. Assuming he was successful in this mission, Nevan thought, he'd
have to see the businesser got some sort of compensation.  Though the
man had definitely been in serious pain, Nevan had inflicted no real
damage beyond bruises; when the man woke, he'd be able to function
normally.

Nevan was tempted to clean the man up, put him to bed, and dose him
with rapid-heal--but that wasn't how one with his cover occupation
would act. Instead, he got an injector of energine and triggered it
into the businesser's carotid artery.  Seconds later, the man's eyes
opened and he groaned.  "Are you done yet?"

"Yes.  You may get dressed and leave.  I would advise you to waste no
time; liftoff is in ten minutes."

"I'll be gone."  The man struggled to his feet and into the small
'fresher, where Nevan had had him leave his clothing; less than two
minutes later he was leaving the ship.

Nevan had his flight plan ready by then.  He transmitted it to the
spaceport controller, got clearance, and was lifting off at the
specified time.  Not long afterward, he was far enough from the planet
to make the transition to hyperspace, and did so.

      *      *      *      *      *

Owajima smiled as he read his agent's decoded message.  DarLowrie had
acted precisely as could be expected from a Sandeman assassin, it
seemed, though Owajima was pleased his agent reported nothing more
serious than bruises.  He frowned, though, when he reached the last
paragraph.

"Personal impressions:  I can't pinpoint it, but something about him
reminds me of you.  The feeling you give me of being looked into more
than at, maybe.  It's not the typical Sandeman arrogance that makes you
feel like you're not worth the bother of looking at--it's more like
being under a microscope.  I'm sorry to be so vague, but as I said,
there wasn't anything definite I can point to."

A feeling of being looked into rather than at.  Owajima frowned more
deeply.  That bore an uncomfortable resemblance to a particularly
observant person's reaction to someone who was reading @'s face and
body language. That was not a common skill, particularly among
Sandemans--though he had to admit it would be as useful a skill for an
assassin as it was for a field agent.

In which case, it was possible DarLowrie had obtained more information
than Owajima had intended--including that the information had been set
up for him to find.  And where had DarLowrie learned such a skill?  Not
on any of the Sandeman worlds, which weren't given to such subtleties.
The only places Owajima knew, in fact, that taught more than the most
basic such reading were the Kai school here, and the Imperial field
agent school on Terra.  No Sandeman had ever studied here, and he was
aware of only one who had successfully completed field agent training--his
predecessor as top agent, Nevan DarLeras, now sworn to the Crown
Princess by the totally-binding Sandeman personal-fealty oath.

That left a graduate of one of those two schools as DarLowrie's
teacher. An ex-field agent was by far the more likely, if only because
there were many more of them, and few Kai-school ninjas left Nippon-Ni.
Take that as a working hypothesis, then.  In that case, was it likely
the agent had taught DarLowrie only face and body reading?

It would be safest, Owajima thought, to operate on the worst-case
assumption that DarLowrie had learned most, if not all, of an agent's
skills. He would need them, if he had any intention of assassinating
Owajima on his home territory and then escaping.

Should he simply eliminate DarLowrie, or would it be better to capture
and question him?  The second, Owajima decided almost immediately.
That would be more difficult, but it might be a good idea to discover
the agent reckless enough to teach such skills to anyone able to pay--and
discourage . . .

He was going to do it himself.  He could and would ask for help from
his former colleagues, the Shogun's secret police--but attempted murder
of an Imperial officer was an Imperial crime; they didn't have
jurisdiction.  He could call in assistance, but that was something
field agents were, as an occupational characteristic, disinclined to do
unless there was no other way to get the job done--which, at this
point, was not the case.

      *      *      *      *      *

Nevan spent the first two days of his flight to Nippon-Ni studying
everything the Last Resort's ship-comp had available about that planet.
It sounded interesting, and he decided he'd like to visit sometime when
he could do so openly; it had been settled by Japanese who wanted to
return to the days of the Samurai, without giving up modern
conveniences or an industrial base. They even called their Baron the
"Shogun", on-planet.

But it also looked like a dangerous place to operate.  The Shogun's
secret police force was made up of the Kai-school ninjas Owajima was
rumored to have been, and it seemed possible he'd been one of them
before joining the Corps. If so, he'd undoubtedly use them for
backup--which meant going in, Nevan thought, would be like sticking his
head in a balik's den.  A female balik's, with newborn cubs.  One alerted
field agent would be bad enough; a police force of agent-equivalents
. . . the smart thing would be to call it off, go back to Terra, set up
a new identity, and start over.  He did know who his quarry was, now; he
wouldn't be starting from scratch.

He was reluctant to do that, though.  He'd done nothing even the most
fanatical secret police could legally arrest him for; it seemed a shame
to abandon his mission when he was so close to accomplishing it.  Being
arrested without cause would be justification for mind-calling his
thakur, and he was sure she'd intervene; Owajima had to be the only
agent with an entire planetary police force to call on for backup,
which made him an unrepresentative opponent.  Besides, Nevan admitted,
he relished the challenge.  He hadn't had the opportunity to really use
his abilities in longer than he cared to think about.

      *      *      *      *      *

Owajima answered his phone, to see the chief of spaceport security.
"Yes, Captain?"

"The Last Resort just called for landing, Colonel.  Do you want us to
detain DarLewies?"

"No, thank you.  Permit him to land and do as he wishes, but keep him
under close surveillance.  Discreetly, of course."

The security chief smiled.  "Of course, Colonel.  We will keep you
informed at all times.  Will you need any further assistance?"

"I do not believe so, but if I should, I will ask."

      *      *      *      *      *

Nevan had to land at the New Tokyo civilian spaceport, but he was
likeliest to be able to get current information about Owajima at the
nearby Imperial Navy base, so he rented a car and drove the twenty
kilometers north. He'd been on so many worlds that he didn't find
Nippon-Ni particularly remarkable, though he was pleased that the
temperature was high enough he didn't need a jacket.  And the smell of
chocolate chip cookies or a close local equivalent coming from a shop
he passed was tempting enough to make his mouth water, but he kept
going; Nevan DarLeras' fondness for those was well enough known in the
wrong circles that he didn't dare indulge it when he was under cover.

Things were definitely not going his way, he decided as he neared the
base.  Traffic was too heavy for a normal workday, and he found out why
when he got close to the main gate: a banner over the road welcomed
visitors to the annual Base Open House.  Nevan addressed a caustic,
"Why me?" to the gods he only half-believed in, but it might look
suspicious if he turned and left; instead, he kept going with traffic,
which took him to a parking area that would need major help to look
like a lawn again after being used this way.

There wasn't anything useful he could accomplish during an open house,
with all the base offices closed, so he decided he might as well bow to
the inevitable and try to enjoy himself.  Such events did have their
good points; the various units' hospitality stands tried to outdo each
other, so the quality and variety of food and drink available was truly
impressive.  He should be able to find treats he liked almost as well
as chocolate chip cookies, but ones that wouldn't blow his cover.  He
walked toward the exhibit-covered landing field, glad that he'd kept
his identity as a Sandeman warrior; as crowded as the area was, he was
given plenty of room to move.  He was impressed despite himself by the
exhibits, too.  Whoever was in charge of this open house had managed to
get a heavy destroyer for a static display--and while those were
nowhere near as big as the kilometer-diameter battle cruisers, which
were far too big to land, they were quite big enough to have the
visitors making awed comments.

Curious, Nevan walked around the ship until he found its ID--and then
he sent another caustic comment to one of the newest gods.  *Dammit,
Kelly, if you want me to deliver your blades to Owajima, how about some
cooperation instead of all these problems?*

The destroyer was the IHD Warleader Riordan, a ship from the Fiftieth
Fleet, which meant it was crewed primarily by Sandemans.  That was bad
enough, but a good percentage on this particular ship were from Clan
Leras, so even the ones not directly related to him would know him on
sight.  And they weren't IntelDiv; they wouldn't know not to recognize
him.  He turned and began walking away, hoping against hope that the
crew was still all aboard ship.  He'd been lucky enough not to get
caught in such a situation during his active career; maybe that luck
would hold long enough for him to get out of this one.

"Nevan!"

The happy voice from behind him made it all too clear his luck had
changed.  He turned and bowed respectfully to the approaching
warriors'-woman in Imperial Marine service black.  "Good day, Lady
Morna.  You're looking well."

She looked at him with affectionate appraisal, and shook her head
ruefully.  "I can't say the same for you, I'm afraid.  How long have
you been on the meds?"

"Almost a month," Nevan admitted.  He might have been able to get away
with lying to another w'woman, but the lady Morna could tell--whether
by looking or by some form of Talent--almost to the day how long a
warrior had been using anti-need medications.  And she didn't approve
of them being used any longer than was absolutely necessary.

"I thought so.  Are you going to be around long enough for me to give
you a natural release?"

Nevan was tempted, but he shook his head.  He'd have to leave as soon
as he could; now that his cover was blown, he had no choice but to give
up this try and start over.  "I'm afraid I have to get back to Terra."

Morna nodded, glancing at the synthiskin-covered cheek.  "Of course; I
didn't realize.  But when you do, promise me that you'll find a w'woman
or warrior and get a decent natural release."

"I will, lady," Nevan replied, grateful for her understanding.  "Or a
Traiti; some of the Palace Guard have given me good combat releases."

"That will do."  Morna smiled at him.  "At least you haven't gone six
months on the meds, the way you had when I first met you!  But can you
stay a little while?  Our autochef bakes good cookies.  Including
chocolate chip."

Nevan chuckled, deciding that an hour or so shouldn't really make any
difference.  "I'd like that; thanks."

      *      *      *      *      *

The receiver in Owajima's ear chimed softly; he turned on his throat
mike--not the surgically implanted comm unit many ranking Imperials
were given, but the external type used as far back as pre-atomic
times--and answered. "Owajima here."

"DarLowrie went to the open house, Colonel--and one of those on the
destroyer static display recognized him.  His name is Nevan, and he has
accepted an invitation to visit the ship."

"Nevan!" Owajima exclaimed.  "What clan, do you know?"

"It was not said, but the largest clan group aboard is from Leras."

"Ah."  Owajima was silent for several seconds, absorbing that.  "Is
there a tattoo on his right cheek?"

"There is not."

"Interesting--thank you.  I will need some assistance after all, it
appears; I would like to get into his ship with as few traces as
possible."

"An entry specialist will be with you in ten minutes.  Is there
anything else?"

"Not at the moment.  Owajima out."  So his pursuer's true name was
Nevan, Owajima thought, troubled.  And the ship's largest contingent
was from Leras. Knowing both Sandemans and the unconditional nature of
the personal fealty oath, he found it hard to believe his pursuer's
identity.  What had gone wrong, to turn a Sandeman warrior from
thakur-na to renegade assassin?

Or . . . had anything?  If Nevan had either deserted or harmed his
chosen lady, it would have been all over the news channels, and there
had been nothing.  The likelihood, then, was that he was on a mission
for her--a mission that somehow concerned him.

Owajima smiled slowly at that.  Very well, he would take all possible
precautions, though he no longer believed they would be necessary.
Nevan DarLeras had a powerful and trained Talent, something "Vance
DarLowrie" had shown no traces of--so he was not using either that or
Ranger Losinj's position to simplify his mission.  An exercise of some
sort, then--security, in all probability.  If true, it could be proven
easily, Owajima thought, and he would have the pleasure of meeting his
predecessor.

      *      *      *      *      *

Nevan enjoyed both the cookies and the talk, though he kept an eye on
the time and didn't let himself relax too much.  Owajima was alerted
now, and field agents tended to have a rather violent reaction to
someone stalking them for unknown purposes.  Nevan couldn't blame them;
he'd reacted the same way when one of his net had warned him someone
was on his trail.  About the best such a pursuer could expect,
unless @ was able to ambush the agent first, was that the agent wanted
information enough to use a non-lethal form of attack or defense--until
@ learned enough to satisfy @'s curiosity, at least.

But Nevan was able to put the hazards of his mission in the back of his
mind while he caught up on news from home.  His first son, with the
lady Dallas, was doing well in his warrior training, though both he and
his half-brother--Nevan's with the lady Morna, who looked more than a
little smug, telling him--were giving Sean and Ellen fits trying to
keep up.  Nevan couldn't help laughing; Sean and Ellen had fostered
him, too, and he remembered how good they were--and how frustrated Sean
got--with a child-warrior's hyperactivity.  Other news was almost as
interesting to him, if less personal: the warrior Leslie had broken his
leg in war games with the Combat Division Marines stationed at Shangri-La
Base, and the clan had been asked to train more assault-lander
pilots.

The hour was all too short, but Nevan didn't let himself stretch his
visit beyond that point.  He left the destroyer after a final promise
to Morna that he would get off the meds as soon as he could, then made
his way through even thicker crowds to his rented car.

He spent the drive back to his ship going over his options.  Things
didn't look quite as unpromising as they had earlier, even though it
still seemed that he would have to go back to Terra for a fresh start.
This time, he reminded himself, at least the start wouldn't be from
zero; he had a name and a reputation to work with, and a few days to
dig out some background would give him more data.

He had resigned himself to starting over by the time he got back to the
spaceport.  Not even the sight of half a decade secret police making no
secret of their surveillance of his ship disturbed him; he grinned at
them as he palmed open the outer hatch of his ship, giving Owajima
points for letting the locals handle the presumed assassin.  He'd just
have to take more precautions the next time around--  Oh, gods, the
inner hatch was ajar, and he hadn't left it that way!

He barely had time to spot a stunner muzzle in the opening and start
reaching for his needler before his ambusher fired and he slumped to
the airlock deck.

      *      *      *      *      *

Owajima was a little surprised at the ease of his success, though there
was no way even one as skilled as DarLeras was reputed to be could have
detected any sign of his entry.  He went to the outer lock and signaled
his success to the watchers, then carried the Sandeman to his cabin and
secured him to the bunk.  Then he went into the 'fresher, found
synthiskin release in the medikit, and used it on the Sandeman's face,
smiling as it peeled free to reveal the tattoo so familiar from news
shows.  That was conclusive enough for Owajima; if, contrary to all
other evidence, DarLeras had gone renegade, he would have removed the
tattoo rather than simply covering it.

      *      *      *      *      *

When Nevan woke, he was spread-eagled, tied to his bunk with a
grim-faced Oriental man holding a gun on him.  That should have been
frightening, but Nevan couldn't help grinning; the feel of air on his
cheek instead of synthiskin agreed with the tiny indications he could
read from his captor. Owajima was disciplined, beautifully so, but not
well enough to hide everything.  "I'm honored to meet you, Colonel
Owajima.  Either I'm losing my edge, or you're about to take over the
top-ever rating; I should've seen some sign of your entry on the outer
lock."

"If you had, it would be I who was losing my edge.  However, I will
take that as a compliment from one who still holds that ranking.  Drop
your mind-shield."

"What?  Ohhh."  Nevan did so, surprised for an instant though he knew
he shouldn't be.  Since his chosen lady had discovered psionic Talent
in humans nine years ago, it had been found that strong Talent was
generally linked to strong abilities in one or more other fields.  That
wasn't a direct correlation, since there were multi-field geniuses with
none at all, and people with no conventional talents and powerful
Talent--but well over ninety percent of the time, conventional and
psionic abilities went together. Owajima wouldn't be the top-rated
field agent without exceptional ability--of both types.

*Also, unlike most Sandemans,* came Owajima's amused thought, *I was
eager for Talent training.  We both know it is impossible to lie,
mind-to-mind, so: you are still thakur-na to Ranger Losinj and on a
mission for her?*

*I am, though the mission is partly for her, partly for myself,* Nevan
confirmed.  *Stay linked while I report; she'll want to commend you
personally.*  He sensed Owajima's agreement, and reached for his chosen
lady. *Thakur?*

*Here, thakur-na,* was the immediate response--then Nevan shared her
amusement as she 'felt' his bonds.  *You are satisfied with security,
then.*

*It's tight,* Nevan confirmed.  *And I'm really impressed by Major
Owajima's skill.  He got past my ship defenses without leaving a trace.
It was a beautiful ambush.*

*It is he I sense linked with you?*

*Yes, Thakur.*

Nevan felt her attention center on the other.  *I am pleased to make
your acquaintance, Major,* she sent.  *I apologize for any difficulties
you experienced as a result of Nevan's pursuit; his purpose, at my
request, was to test the security protecting field agents, including
his target's self-protection.  As you heard, he is satisfied.  So am I,
and since you proved able to stop him, I will place a commendation in
your records.*

*Thank you, sir.*  Owajima smiled.  *It is good to know our protections
are adequate against one of the warrior Nevan's ability; any other,
then, could penetrate them only by chance.*

*True.*  Corina projected amusement.  *Are you on assignment?*

*No, sir.  I have just finished a post-mission leave, and have been
ordered to Terra for a tour with OSI.*

*You won't like it,* Nevan predicted.  *Assignments think they're doing
us a favor when they give us a planetside tour--a rest break, I heard
one call it--but those always bored me.*

*If it gets too bad, Major,* the Ranger sent sympathetically, *see me,
and I will have you given a field assignment.  It is the least I can do
after setting Nevan on your trail.*

*I will, sir, and thank you.*

*Before I break contact, thakur-na, is there anything further you
need?*

*Not really, Thakur--if you don't have anything else for me, I'll offer
Major Owajima a ride back to Terra.*

*That will be fine.  Enjoy the trip--I must endure this reception for
Duke Shirley.  Until your return, thakur-na.*

*Until then, Thakur.*  The contact ended, and Nevan grinned up at his
captor.  "Satisfied, Major?"

"Perfectly, warrior.  And I will accept your offer of a ride."  Owajima
holstered his gun, then undid Nevan's bonds.  "I have wished to meet
you for some time; I regret only the circumstances."

Nevan sat up, rubbing his wrists.  "Same here, maybe more so.  I was
after you in particular because my bio-father left you his personal
weapons when he died last month."

"Oh?  Knowing Sandemans, I assume there was a reason."

"Uh-huh.  He was the one you gave need-release to on Piper's World."

"Ah."  Owajima smiled.  "I should not have broken cover to do so, but I
had seen one warrior die that way when we were prisoners of the Traiti,
and I could not let another go through such agony unaided."

"That's what he told me, not long after I finished my agent's training.
Do you need to get anything before we go?"

"No.  Had you been the enemy I originally thought, by now you would
have been dead and your ship confiscated for my trip, to be turned in
to the Navy at the Antarctica base.  My things are already aboard."

Nevan chuckled.  "Good thinking.  Unnecessary, since this baby already
belongs to the Navy, but I like the plan."  He led the way to his
ship's control room, got clearance for takeoff, and set course for
Terra.  Then he escorted his guest to the ship's small lounge.  "I've
followed your career for a long time, Major," he said, getting coffee
for each of them.  "It's been brilliant--at times incredible.  Like
getting into this ship without leaving traces."

Owajima smiled.  "I left traces, warrior.  Not many, and not
significant to one without the training we share, but enough that you
would have observed them.  My particular Talent specialty, however, is
singularly appropriate for one in this field."  His smile grew.  "I
can, when I desire, make myself and my handiwork unnoticeable.  It
takes a particularly strong mind-shield to block that ability even
partially; you saw nothing because I wished you not to."

Nevan nodded, returning the smile.  "That makes me feel better.  I got
blown when I visited the base--didn't know about the open house, and
ran into some clan-mates.  I was afraid I'd let that distract me--but
if you were using Talent, that wasn't my problem.  Mind showing me how
it works?"

"Not at all, though since you are already aware of me, the effect will
not be complete."

If that was incomplete, Nevan thought seconds later, Kiyoshi Owajima
must be capable of practically turning invisible.  He knew the other
was there, could see him perfectly well--but it was almost impossible
to pay any attention to him.  "Nice!  I could've used that quite a few
times."

Owajima became noticeable again.  "It is less effective against a
number of people, particularly when--as you did--they know I am
present.  But against few, or those who have not already seen me when I
begin using it, you are quite correct; it is most effective."

"Too bad you can't teach it to all the agents."  But that, Nevan knew,
wasn't possible; while mind-screen, or the stronger mind-shield, and
telepathy were common to everyone with Talent, the specialized aspects
varied widely from person to person.  "Would you like to see your
inheritance?"

"Very much.  The needler and blades in the clothing storage?"

Nevan chuckled.  "That's them.  Do you want to get them, or shall I?"

"There is no further need to invade your privacy, warrior."

"Nevan is fine--I'll go get them, then."  He did so, grinning to
himself.  He'd been favorably impressed by the reports of Owajima's
accomplishments; he was even more favorably impressed by the man
himself.  Not too many standard humans could take out a Sandeman
warrior, even using Talent!

Returning to the lounge, he gave Owajima the box holding the weapons.
"Here you are, Major.  Use them in good health."

"I shall, whenever my cover does not prohibit the use of Sandeman
weapons. And call me Kiyoshi, please."  Owajima smiled.  "I think this
will be an enjoyable trip, and that by its end we will be friends."

"I think so, too.  Do you have a family?"

"I am married, but we do not yet have children.  You?"

"Two sons, both warriors--one with the lady Dallas, one with the lady
Morna.  My foster-parents are fostering both of them, as well.  I've
got a holo, if you'd like to see."

"Very much."  Owajima accepted the small folder, settling in for an
enjoyable discussion.




END









End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Ambush, by Ann Wilson

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AMBUSH ***

***** This file should be named 25740.txt or 25740.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/5/7/4/25740/

Produced by Al Haines

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will be
renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no one
owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and
you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission
and without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth in the
General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying and
distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the
PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a
registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks,
unless you receive specific permission. If you do not charge anything
for copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may
use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative
works, reports, performances and research. They may be modified and
printed and given away--you may do practically ANYTHING with public
domain eBooks. Redistribution is subject to the trademark license,
especially commercial redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://www.gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
This particular work is one of the few copyrighted individual works
included with the permission of the copyright holder.  Information on
the copyright owner for this particular work and the terms of use
imposed by the copyright holder on this work are set forth at the
beginning of this work.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS,' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook's
eBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,
compressed (zipped), HTML and others.

Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take over
the old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.
VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receiving
new filenames and etext numbers.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,
are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want to
download any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regular
search system you may utilize the following addresses and just
download by the etext year.

http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext06

    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,
     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)

EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, are
filed in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer part
of the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which is
identical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of single
digits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  For
example an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:

http://www.gutenberg.org/1/0/2/3/10234

or filename 24689 would be found at:
http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/6/8/24689

An alternative method of locating eBooks:
http://www.gutenberg.org/GUTINDEX.ALL

*** END: FULL LICENSE ***
