The Project Gutenberg EBook of Dead Man's Planet, by William Morrison

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Dead Man's Planet

Author: William Morrison

Illustrator: Ed Emshwiller

Release Date: December 27, 2009 [EBook #30773]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEAD MAN'S PLANET ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









 DEAD
 MAN'S
 PLANET

 By WILLIAM MORRISON

 Illustrated by EMSH


    _When a driven man arrives at a cemetery world, what else can it be
    but journey's end--and the start of a new one?_


Outside the ship, it was the sun that blazed angrily. Inside, it was Sam
Wilson's temper. "Study your lessons," he snarled, with a savageness
that surprised himself, "or I'll never let you set foot on this planet
at all."

"Okay, Pop," said Mark, a little white around the nostrils. He looked
old for so young a kid. "I didn't mean anything wrong."

"I don't care what you meant. You do as you're told."

In the quiet that followed, broken only by the hum of the
arithmetic-tape, Sam wondered at himself. As kids went, Mark had never
been a nuisance. Certainly Rhoda had never had any trouble with him. But
Rhoda had been altogether different. Sam was tough and he had always got
a sense of satisfaction out of knowing that he was hard-boiled. Or at
least that was once true. Rhoda had been sweet, gentle....

He aroused himself from thoughts of her by calling, "Mark!"

"Yes, Pop?"

His voice had been harsher than he had intended. Over the past few weeks
he seemed gradually to have been losing control of it. Now, although he
was going to do his son a favor, he sounded like a slavemaster
threatening a beating. "You can shut off your arithmetic lesson. We're
going out."

"But didn't you want me--"

"I changed my mind."

Mark seemed more troubled than pleased, as if a father who changed his
mind so readily was a man to be wary of.

_I'm on edge all the time_, thought Sam, _and I'm getting him that way,
too. I'll have to regain control of myself._

       *       *       *       *       *

He had long ago made all the necessary tests for such possible dangers
as lack of oxygen and the presence of infectious organisms. On all
counts, the planet had passed muster. The sun, whiter than Sol, was
almost hot enough to make him forget the chill he carried deep inside
him. Almost, but not quite, especially as the air, though breathable,
was thin and deficient in nitrogen. The countryside was bleak, inspiring
in him the thought that there are two kinds of desolation; the one that
precedes the coming of Man, and the one which he knows only too well how
to create wherever he goes. The desolation here was non-human.

"It--it's like a cemetery, ain't it, Pop?"

Sam looked at his son sharply. Kids of ten were not supposed to know
much about cemeteries. Nor, for that matter, were kids of six, Mark's
age when the funeral had taken place. Sam hadn't let him attend, but
evidently the incident had made a deeper impression on his mind than Sam
had realized. He would always remember a cemetery as the place where his
mother lived. Perhaps he missed Rhoda almost as much as his father did.

"It's different from a cemetery," said Sam. "There's nobody buried here.
Looks like we're the first human beings ever to set foot on this place."

"Do you think we'll find animals to catch, Pop?"

"I don't see signs of any animals."

That was part of Sam's private fiction, that he was looking for strange
animals to be sold to zoos or circuses. Actually he was seeking less to
find anything new than to lose something he carried with him, and
succeeding in neither attempt.

Mark shivered in the sun. "It's kind of lonely," he said.

"More lonely than the ship?"

"It's different. It's bigger, so it's more lonely."

_I'm not so sure_, argued Sam mentally. _In the ship, we have all of
space around us, and nothing's bigger than that. Still, your opinion has
to be respected. You're almost as great an expert on the various kinds
of loneliness as I am. The difference is that you're loneliest when
you're away from people. I'm loneliest in a crowd. That's why I don't
mind this planet so much._

He walked ahead, Mark following almost reluctantly. The ground was rocky
and the shrub-like vegetation sparse and stunted, ranging in color from
greenish gray to brown. It seemed hardly capable of supporting a large
animal population. If there were any animals here at all, they were
probably too small to be impressive, and would be of little interest to
exhibitors.

They walked in silence for a few moments, and then Sam asked, "Want to
go on?"

"I want to finish my studying."

That was something new. "Okay," said Sam, and turned back.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were approaching the ship when the sound of a pebble falling came
to Sam's ears. Automatically, his hand reached for his gun, and he swung
around to face what might be danger. As he did so, something snarled and
fled. He could see no sign of motion, but he could hear the scattering
of other pebbles along a gully as the creature retreated.

"Looks like we're not alone here, after all," he said. "Wonder what that
was."

"It couldn't have been very big," said Mark. "Big animals don't run
away."

"Not usually, unless they're smart, or they've met people before. I'll
have to set traps."

"Do you think maybe if you caught him you could sell him to a circus,
Pop?"

"I'll have to see what he's like, first," said Sam. He looked around.
"If there's one animal, there are likely to be others. It's strange that
I didn't detect any sign of them."

He put his arm absently over Mark's shoulder. He didn't notice the
expression on the kid's face at this unexpected gesture.

[Illustration]

When they were inside the ship again, Mark said, "Guess I'd better get
back to my arithmetic."

"In a minute," said Sam. "I want to talk to you first." He dropped
wearily into a seat, although he had done nothing that should have tired
him out. His son looked at him expectantly. "Mark, do you like traveling
around with me?"

"Sure, Pop, I like to be with you."

"Not seeing anybody else? No other kids, no people of any kind? Just
being with me, learning your lessons from tapes, and having your test
papers corrected automatically? You don't get tired of it?"

Mark hesitated despite himself. Then he said loyally, "I'd rather be
with you than anybody else. When Mom--when Mom died--I didn't want to
see anybody."

"I know how you felt. But that was four years ago. You can't grow up
alone. Now what you need to do is meet people, learn how they talk and
think and feel. You can't learn those things from tapes, and you can't
learn them from me."

Mark said stubbornly, "I like to be with you."

"I'm not much of a person to be with. Don't think I don't know it. I'm
mean and surly, and my temper's getting worse by the day. I can't
associate with people any more. But _you_ can. I was thinking maybe I'd
leave you--"

"No!" cried Mark.

"Not in an orphanage or anything like that. But I have some friends
whose kids are growing up--"

"No. I won't go. If you send me, I'll run away. I want to be with you."

"Okay," said Sam. "That's that."

But it wasn't, and he knew it. Even as he went about preparing his
traps, he knew it.

       *       *       *       *       *

As it turned out, the only animals he caught in his traps were small
ones which tore themselves in two and then scampered off, each half
running in a different direction. For the animal which had made those
noises, no traps were necessary. Later on he heard a noise outside
again, and he went out cautiously, gun in hand. The animal backed away,
but he saw it, then he heard it bark. So did Mark, who had followed him.

Mark's eyes almost popped. It was four years since he had heard the
sound, but he knew at once what it was. "Gosh! A dog! How do you s'pose
he got here?"

"I don't know," said Sam. "Your guess is as good as mine."

"But if we're the first human beings to land here--it ain't possible!"

"I know that. But there he is."

At the sound of their voices, the dog broke into a series of furious
barks, backing away as it did so.

"What kind is he, Pop?"

"He looks like a mongrel to me. A bad-tempered, medium-sized mongrel
with an ugly look about him. Maybe I ought to shoot him and get it over
with."

"Shoot him? Don't do that! I want him as a pet."

"He looks too wild to make much of a pet."

The dog gave one last bark of defiance, turned, and fled in the same
general direction, Sam noticed, as he had run last time.

"Maybe dogs _do_ grow on other planets, Pop."

"Only if men have brought them there."

"Then that means there was a ship here?"

"At some time or other there was a ship. I don't think it was smashed
up, or I'd have seen wreckage when I cruised around before landing. That
dog was either left here by mistake, or deliberately marooned."

"Maybe--maybe he's with somebody who's still here."

"Not likely," said Sam thoughtfully. "He wanders around too freely, and
he seems unused to the presence of human beings. Besides, no men would
be likely to live here long without shelter. And I've seen no sign of
any house or hut."

"Could he belong to a being that wasn't human?"

"No," replied Sam with certainty. "Only human beings have been able to
domesticate dogs. If a dog is here, a human being was once here. That's
definite."

"He _would_ make a good pet," said Mark longingly.

"Not that one. Maybe I should have got you a dog long ago. It might have
been just the kind of companionship you needed. But you can't make a pet
of this animal. He's been away from people too long, and he's developed
some mean habits." And he added mentally, "_Like me._"

"I could train him," said Mark. "He wouldn't be any trouble at all, Pop.
I'd train him and feed him, and he'd be just like one of us. And--and
like you say, Pop, it wouldn't be so lonely for me."

Kids don't give up easily, thought Sam. All the same, he had an idea
that with this dog all the persistence in the world would be useless. He
shrugged, and said simply, "We'll see." And then they went into the ship
to eat.

       *       *       *       *       *

All through the meal he could tell that Mark was thinking about the dog.
The boy's thoughts seemed to affect his appetite. For the first time,
he left some of his proteinex on the plate.

"I'm not very hungry today," he said apologetically. "Maybe--" He looked
inquiringly at his father.

"Go ahead and finish it," said Sam. "We've got plenty of food. I'll fix
up something else for the dog."

"But I want to feed him myself, Pop. I want him to get used to me
feeding him."

"I'll give you your chance later."

Afterwards, Sam thriftily opened an old can of a less expensive variety
of proteinex and put half of it on a platter, which Mark carried outside
the ship. He moved off about a hundred yards in the direction the dog
had taken, and set the platter down on a rock.

"The wind is blowing the wrong way," said Sam. "Let's wait a while."

       *       *       *       *       *

In ten minutes the wind shifted, and if the dog was near, Sam felt
certain that he had picked up both their scent and that of the food.
That his feeling was correct was shown by the sudden appearance of the
animal, who barked again, but this time not so fiercely. And he stopped
barking to sniff hungrily, at the same time keeping his distance.

"Here, mutt," called Mark.

"I'm afraid he won't come any closer while we're around," said Sam. "If
you want him to have that food, you'd better go away from it."

Mark reluctantly backed away with his father. The dog approached the
food, finally rushing down upon it as if he feared it would escape, and
gobbled it.

In the days that followed, they continued to feed him, and the animal
became relatively tame. He stopped barking at them, and at times let
Mark come within a few feet of him. But he never allowed Mark to come
close enough to touch him, and he was especially wary of Sam. The latter
could see, however, that there was nothing around the smooth-furred
neck. The collar, if it had ever existed, had evidently been worn away.

"So we can't find out what his name is," said Mark in disappointment.
"Here, Prince, here, Spot, here, Rover--"

The animal answered to none of the traditional dog names, nor to several
of the newer ones that Mark recalled.

After the dog had been with them for a half hour or so he usually
trotted off in the direction of what they had come to consider his
lair.

"He doesn't seem to be getting tame enough for a pet," said Sam. "That's
one idea I'm afraid you'll have to give up."

"All he needs is a little more time," said Mark. "He's getting used to
me." Then a sudden fear struck him, and he added, "You're not going to
leave here yet, are you, Pop? I thought you wanted to catch some big
animals."

"There aren't any other big animals," replied Sam. "Just those small
ones who came apart in the traps, and they're not worth catching. But
I'll stay. This place is as good as any other. I won't leave it yet."

       *       *       *       *       *

In fact, the stay on the planet, bleak as the place was, seemed to be
less unpleasant than cruising aimlessly through space. Mark had been
starved for companionship of someone besides his father, and in a way,
without making too many demands, the dog was a companion. Wondering
about the beast and trying to tame him gave them something with which to
occupy their minds. It had been several days, realized Sam, since he had
last snapped at Mark.

It had become quite certain now that there was no other human being
around. The dog's eagerness for the food showed that no one else had
taken care of him for a long time. Evidently he had been forced to feed
himself on the small and elusive native animals which he could run down.

One of the things that puzzled Sam was the dog's obvious anxiety to
leave the neighborhood of the ship after a short period and return to
his lair. And one day, driven by curiosity, Sam followed him, with Mark
coming along, too.

The dog had become sufficiently accustomed to them by now not to resent
their presence, and it was easy to keep him in sight. He led the way for
at least two miles, over rocky ground and past a small stream. Quite
unexpectedly he stopped and began to whine and sniff the ground. As Sam
and Mark approached, he turned on them, barking furiously.

The man and boy exchanged glances. "He's acting just like he did in the
beginning," said Mark.

"There's something in the ground," said Sam. "I'm going to find out what
it is." And he drew his gun.

"You're not going to kill him, Pop!"

"I'll just put him to sleep. An anaesthetic pellet of the kind I use for
trapping ought to do the trick."

But one pellet turned out to be not enough. It required the bursting of
three pellets before the animal finally trembled, came to a halt, and
with eyes glazed, fell over on the ground.

When they approached closer, Sam caught sight of half a dozen stones,
roughly piled together. He said, "Better get back, Mark. This may not be
pleasant."

"You think--you think somebody's buried here?"

"Very likely. I'm going to see."

       *       *       *       *       *

Using a flat rock with a sharp edge as an improvised spade, he began to
dig. The ground was hard, and the rock was not the best of tools. It
took him half an hour to reach the first bone, and another half-hour to
uncover the rest.

Mark had come up behind him and was watching with no sign of revulsion.
He said, "I--I was afraid there might be a body, Pop."

"So was I. It looks as if the man died so long ago that everything else
has rotted away, except for a few metal clasps. No other sign of shoes
or clothes. And no indication of how this happened."

"You think he was the dog's master?"

"Evidently."

They both stared at the sleeping animal. Then Sam shrugged, and began to
fill the shallow grave again. Mark helped him push in the dirt and stamp
it down into place. Finally they moved the stones back.

They were about to leave when Mark cried out, "Look at that rock!"

Staring where his son pointed, Sam saw a gray column about four feet
high, with four smooth lateral sides. Rectangular prisms of this size
were rare in nature. This was obviously the work of human hands, and of
a blasting rod as well, to judge by the sides, which showed evidence of
having been fused before weathering had cut into them. At first he had
thought the column was a gravestone. But there was no inscription upon
it. There was nothing but a thin deep groove that ran horizontally
around the four sides, several inches from the top.

"What does it mean, Pop?"

"Let's find out. It's obviously been put here as some sort of memorial.
As for this groove--"

He put his hands on the top of the stone and lifted. As he had half
expected, it separated at the horizontal groove. The top of the stone
was the lid of a box. Inside lay a plastic container.

"Some kind of plastic we don't make any more," muttered Sam.

"Aren't you going to open it?" asked Mark eagerly. "Maybe it tells about
the grave and the dog's name."

The plastic came open at a slight tug. Inside were several strong
sheets of paper. Sam stared at them and said, "It's writing, sure
enough. But in some language I don't understand."

"We can put it in our mechanical translator," said Mark. "That can tell
us what it means."

"That's what we'll do."

"Aren't we going to take the dog with us, Pop?"

"No, we'll leave him here. He'll come to in a little while."

       *       *       *       *       *

Walking back to their ship, Mark continued to show an excitement that
was unusual for him. "You know what?" he said. "I'll bet we're going to
learn what the dog's name is."

"I doubt if whoever wrote this thing would bother about a trifle like
that."

"But that's important. You'll see, Pop, you'll see!"

At the ship, Sam inserted the sheets into the reader section of his
translator and started the motor. The selector swung into action.

"Before it can translate, it has to decide what language this is," he
explained.

"Will that take long?"

"A few minutes if we're lucky, a couple of hours if we're not. After
that, I think the translation itself shouldn't take more than a few
minutes. While we're waiting, we might as well eat."

"I'm not hungry," said Mark.

"You'd better eat anyway."

"Just a little bit, maybe. You know what I think, Pop? When I call the
dog by his name, he'll know I'm his friend and he'll come to me. Then
he'll really be my pet."

"Don't count too much on it," said Sam. And thought once more how lonely
his son must be, to center so much hope in a half-wild beast.

A light glowed suddenly in the translator. The selector had found the
proper language. Now it began to translate.

Twenty minutes later, its work had been completed. As Sam silently began
to read, Mark bumped against him, knocking the translation from his
hand. Sam's first reaction was anger at the boy's clumsiness. Then he
became aware of the hope and the fear that lay behind Mark's excitement,
and bit back the angry words which had almost reached his lips.

"Easy, Mark, easy," he said. He picked up the translation again and sat
down. "You can read it over my shoulder, if you want to."

"I just want to find out the dog's name."

"The important thing is his master's name. Julian Hagstrom, it says. And
he was on a spaceship with his brother, Raoul."

Mark's eyes had skipped ahead. "Look, Pop, here's the dog's name--Arkem!
I never heard of a dog having a name like that! What does it mean?"

"I wouldn't know," muttered Sam absently, still reading.

But Mark wasn't actually interested in his answer. He ran outside.
"Arkem!" he called. "Arkem!"

There was nothing he could interpret as an answer. After a moment or two
he came into the ship again, his face betraying his disappointment. "I
guess he doesn't hear me. He's too far away."

Sam nodded. He had put the translation down and was staring straight
ahead of him, as if looking through the ship's side.

"Is anything the matter, Pop?"

"What? Oh, no, nothing's the matter. I was just thinking about what I
read here."

"They had an accident, didn't they? How did it happen?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"It happened because their ship wasn't as good as ours. Julian Hagstrom,
the man who was killed, was buried here by his brother. Raoul put this
record in the stone to mark his grave. I think he also engraved
something on the stone itself. But that's been worn away."

"It must have been a long time ago. Maybe years."

"Yes, it was years ago. After he buried Julian, Raoul tried to make
repairs, and headed in a direction where he hoped he'd find a civilized
planet. He never made it."

"How can you know that? He wrote the paper _before_ he started out."

"If he had made it, we'd have heard of him. We'd certainly have heard of
him." Sam's face was bleak. "And Rhoda--your mother--would still be
alive."

Mark looked puzzled, and stared at the translation once more. "It says
here he tried to re-reverse the aging process. What does that mean? And
what's immortality, Pop?"

"Something he and his brother were looking for. Something to keep people
from ever dying. They had a ship full of dogs and other animals. All
died in their experiments--all but Arkem. They had high hopes of Arkem.
He lived through a number of different treatments and became quite a pet
of Julian's. Then came the crash. Their method wasn't proof against
accidental death, and at any rate they hadn't applied it yet to
themselves.

"After Raoul buried his brother, the dog was miserable, and howled so
much that Raoul decided to leave him behind. He was helped to reach this
decision by the fact that the ship had lost much of its air in the
accident, and he knew that the air-purifying mechanism wasn't working
too well. He figured he'd have a better chance of surviving if he stayed
in the ship alone. But it didn't do him any good. He was lost in space,
or we'd certainly have heard of him."

From outside there came the sound of a low growl. "It's Arkem!" cried
Mark. "Now you'll see. Wait till he hears me call his name."

He ran out, and Sam followed slowly. "Don't expect too much, Mark," he
said, almost with pity.

Mark didn't hear him. "Arkem!" he called. "Arkem! Arkem!"

The dog was watchful, keeping his distance and giving no sign of
recognition. Sam put his arm around his son's shoulder.

"Arkem, Arkem! Here, Arkem!"

The dog snarled.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were tears in the boy's eyes. "He doesn't know his own name! He
doesn't even know his own name! Arkem!"

"It's no use, Mark, he's forgotten he ever had a name. I'm afraid you'd
better give up the idea of having him as a pet."

"But you _can't_ forget your own name!"

"You can in eight hundred years. Yes, Mark, that's when all this
happened, eight hundred years ago. That's why the language had to be
translated. Arkem is immortal. And during his long life he's forgotten
not only his name, but the master for whose sake he was marooned here.
If Julian Hagstrom were, by some miracle, to come back to life, I'm sure
the dog wouldn't remember him. All he has is a vague but strong tie to
that heap of stones. He no longer knows why he's protecting it. He's
been away from live human beings so long that his brain is little more
than a bundle of reflexes and instincts."

"I'll train him," said Mark. "Sometimes you forget a thing at first, but
it comes back to you later. He'll remember his name--here, Arkem!"

"It's no use," said Sam. "For eight hundred years he's been tied to that
heap of stones. He'll never remember anything except that fact. I'll get
you another dog for a pet."

"You mean we're going back to Mars or Earth?"

"Some place like that. Some place where there are people. Being alone in
space is no good for you."

"Oh, no, Pop, you can't get rid of me like that."

"I'm not trying to get rid of you," said Sam. "Being alone in space is
no good for me either. I'm going with you."

"Gee, are you sure? You won't change your mind?"

The delighted but uncertain look on his son's face shook Sam. He said
carefully, "I won't change my mind. I've decided that it's possible to
have too much of a good thing. If grief is a good thing."

Suddenly, for no reason that they could detect, the dog barked at them
and backed away, the fur rising in an angry ridge along his back.

"Couldn't we take him along anyway?" asked Mark. "I don't like to think
of him all alone here, year after year."

"He'll be miserable here, but he'd be more miserable away from his heap
of dirt and stones. Perhaps--" Mark didn't see as Sam pulled his gun,
then let it slip back into place. "No. That's none of my business. Maybe
he'll be fortunate and have an accident."

"What did you say, Pop?"

"Nothing much. Come along, Mark. We're heading for civilization."

An hour later, the ship rose into the air. Through the blasting of the
rockets, Sam thought--imagined, he decided, was a better word--that he
heard the long doleful whine of a creature whose mindless grief was
doomed to last for all eternity.

                                                    --WILLIAM MORRISON




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Galaxy Science Fiction_ February 1955.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Dead Man's Planet, by William Morrison

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEAD MAN'S PLANET ***

***** This file should be named 30773.txt or 30773.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/0/7/7/30773/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
