The Project Gutenberg EBook of Before Egypt, by E. K. Jarvis

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Before Egypt

Author: E. K. Jarvis

Release Date: January 11, 2010 [EBook #30932]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEFORE EGYPT ***




Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from Amazing Stories January 1957. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this
    publication was renewed.


                             BEFORE EGYPT


                           By E. K. JARVIS


    _It was Mallison's strangest assignment. The weird little
     professor wanted to go to Egypt. That meant a trip back to
     Earth so far as Mallison was concerned. But the professor
     pointed to a distant star and Mallison wondered: "Who moved
     Egypt?"_


    [Illustration: Jaws agape, the hideous serpent hung poised above
     her slim thigh.]

       *       *       *       *       *




Mike Mallison and Nicko were in the office when the new clients
entered. A girl and an elderly man. The girl smiled at Mike. Then she
looked at Nicko and a sharp involuntary scream got past her lips.

"It's all right, lady," Mike said. "He won't hurt you. He never
injures a client. Won't you sit down?"

Nicko wasn't offended. He was used to women reacting that way at first
sight of him. In fact, the hideous little Martian misfit had caused
even strong men to turn pale.

The elderly man was also staring but with more clinical interest
than horror. He turned his eyes on Mike and said, "I am Professor
Arnold Brandon. This is my daughter, Doree."

"I'm Mike Mallison." He indicated with a nod. "This is my assistant,
Nicko."

Nicko grinned, thus baring his tusks and adding new hideousness to his
face. He waved his four arms and said, "I'm delighted to make your
acquaintances. I hope your trip to Outer Port was not too tiring."

Nicko's tones were bell-like--his diction perfect. The girl gasped.
The man blinked, then turned again to Mike. "I hope you received our
electrogram."

"Yes, but it was a little vague. It merely said you would arrive at
Outer Port as of this date."

"Quite. We wish to charter your ship for a cruise."

Mike considered. The _Space Queen_ was at liberty but he wasn't sure
about these two. Other than the fact that the man was old, the girl
gray-eyed, slim, and damned pretty, he knew nothing about them. They
certainly didn't look like big game hunters.

"For what destination?"

Professor Brandon hesitated. "Out toward Orion, sir."

"A man could cruise out toward Orion for the rest of his life and
still not arrive at a destination. Could you be more specific?"

"There is a planet out there I wish to visit but at this time I'd
rather discuss details other than its location."

"Such as--?"

"The cost is very important to us."

Doree Brandon spoke up. "My father holds the Chair of Ancient Cultures
at Casa Blanca University, and educators, as you may know, are not
very well paid. We've been saving for this trip for a long time--"

       *       *       *       *       *

She faltered, somewhat embarrassed and Mike asked, "In what segment of
Orion is this planet located?"

"The ninth, sir."

Mike leaned forward. "May I assume your trip is of a scientific
nature?"

"You may, sir."

"Then I wonder if you are familiar with the Terran Educational
Foundation? I happened to have had contact with them some five years
ago."

"I'm quite familiar with the organization."

"Did it occur to you that they might assume some of the cost of your
trip?"

"They refused. They make the absurd claim that this planet I spoke of
doesn't exist."

"But you have proof to the contrary?"

"An ancient document," Doree Brandon cut in. "A papyrus scroll. Father
translated it."

"And the Foundation did not agree with his translation?"

"I did not submit the scroll. They know nothing about it."

"Father bought it from two men in Paris and worked three years on the
translation." Doree looked at her father with great pride.

"My reasons for not submitting it were personal," Professor Brandon
said, "and are not pertinent to this discussion."

"May I suggest," Mike said gently, "that a pair of crooks sold you a
counterfeit--"

"You may not, sir!"

Doree reflected her father's indignation. "I'll have you know my
father is the foremost authority in his field!"

Mike raised a protective hand. "All right--all right. I'm sorry."

"Then perhaps you'll tell us the approximate cost of the cruise?"

"I can haul you to the ninth segment and back for around seven
thousand but that won't leave much leeway for search."

Professor Brandon beamed. "We can just about manage it. And I assure
you very little search will be necessary."

"If you'll give me the planet's location I'll plot a course and give
you an exact figure."

"It is not my intention to seem mysterious, but I'd prefer to give you
that data after blast-off."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike scowled and half-rose from his chair. Professor Brandon hastily
drew a pack of yellow bills from his pocket and laid it on the table.
"There are four thousand. I have the rest at the hotel. We shall
demonstrate complete faith in you by paying the seven thousand before
we leave Outer Port."

With that he smiled and arose from his chair. "I guess that concludes
our business at this time. We'll be at the hotel when you wish to
contact us. Come Doree." He herded the girl out quickly and closed the
door.

Nicko chuckled. "Smart old codger. He had you pegged dead to rights."

Mike turned his scowl on Nicko and snapped, "For Christ's sake, speak
Terran!"

Nicko had inadvertently used a Plutonian hill dialect he'd heard once,
this being the hideous little Martian's amazing talent--an instinctive
grasp of all tongues. His lingual talents were a tremendous asset to
Mike but at times they drove him crazy because Nicko might
absent-mindedly use several different tongues during a conversation;
some of which he could not classify himself, having forgotten where he
heard them.

"I said he had you pegged. He knew you were ready to turn him down so
he upped with the mool. He knew once you touched the yellow you'd be
his pup."

"I'm not so damned sure about that--"

Mike Mallison was a big game guide--a life he loved. He was a man of
action and asked nothing better than the perils of his calling; the
stalking of the great Plutonian ice bears; crouching in a Venusian
swamp waiting for the ten-ton lizards to blow slime a hundred feet in
the air and rise from their lava-hot beds; matching wits with the
telepathic Uranian rock wolves, the most elusive beast in the
universe; setting his sights on a Martian jet-bat so some Terran
millionaire could have a new trophy for his game room.

"You're not sure," Nicko was saying in Ganymedian French, "but you'll
stay glued to the mool."

Mike was busy thinking and didn't ask for a translation. After all, he
needed the money and if he didn't take it these two deluded characters
would no doubt find someone who would.

"Besides," Nicko said in Terran, "the female's a dream. The legs--the
torso--very nice to be in space with."

"Shut up! This is a business trip! Remember that. Exactly the same as
though we were hauling a couple of fat Terran bankers."

"Sure. But that kitty's got more in the bank than--"

"Get the hell out of here! Go over to the Exchange and see if our new
pile came in on that ship."

       *       *       *       *       *

Outer Port was a man-made satellite artificially oxygenated and
gravitated. It was the largest of a group assembled during the
experimental period of the late twenty-first century. Later, methods
of shifting asteroids and small planets into desired orbits were
developed and the construction of space globes and platforms was
discontinued.

At that time, the Interplanetary Guild of Space Guides purchased the
satellite and moored it on the perimeter of the System to serve as a
headquarters for their activities. They smashed a bottle of wine on it
and christened it Outer Port after which every guide got drunk by way
of celebration.

It was a bleak establishment. With no solar supplement, it lay in the
eternal twilight of far space, the artificial heat of its surface
rising against eternal cold thus causing a perpetual fogging of its
atmosphere mixture.

So when the _Space Queen_ blasted fifteen hours later, Doree Brandon
brightened perceptibly. Professor Brandon remained in the lounge.
Nicko was aft, watching the tube primers. Doree was with Mike in the
control cabin.

"Getting used to Nicko?" Mike asked.

Doree smiled. "I owe him an apology. He is--" She looked up suddenly.
"He is _he_, isn't he?"

Mike laughed. "Nicko is male. Beyond that point he's hard to
classify."

"That odd face! Those green scales! The four arms were a little
difficult to get used to but now I think he's--well, kind of cute."

"Good for you."

"Where did you ever find him?"

"On Mars. I'll tell you about it sometime. Right now I've got to
finish setting our primary course."

"I imagine you'd like the exact location of the planet as soon as
possible."

"No great hurry. Any time in the next twelve hours will do. Just a
matter of pin-pointing the arc of the basic course. Your father didn't
appear to feel too well when we blasted. How is he now?"

"He's been under a terrific strain. Perhaps we could let him rest
awhile."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike turned on her sharply. "Listen--I'm going to ask you a straight
question and I'd like a straight answer. Does that planet really
exist?"

Her eyes widened, her head came up dangerously; and Mike noted this
made her extremely attractive. "Now wait a minute. Don't get sore.
I'm not implying your father doesn't _believe_ it's there. And after
all, I've taken your money, so its a deal but--"

She almost smiled. "You just think that perhaps he's an impractical
old dreamer with delusions."

"I didn't say that."

There was a pause while Doree evidently decided not to get angry. "I
assure you, Mr. Mallison, I believe with all my heart that father's
planet is exactly where he will direct you. Of course nothing is
certain in this universe, but--"

Mike grinned and held out his hand. "I believe you. Accept my apology.
And please call me Mike. We're going to see a lot of each other for a
while."

She took his hand and smiled back. Their eyes held and Mike liked what
he saw--pert elfin features; shining chestnut hair; even white teeth.

"We'll let your father rest a while," Mike said. "I'll get the figures
from him later."

       *       *       *       *       *

But he was fated never to get the location of the planet from the old
scientist. In fact, he was never again to see Professor Brandon in the
confines of the _Space Queen_.

He finished setting primary course and then Nicko returned to report.
"Everything grooved. Temp up. Color down. Tubes solid. Primers
closed."

Nicko spoke in four languages. Doree, who understood two of them,
gasped.

Nicko grinned. "Thought I was a mental void, eh, kitty? Why I can spit
dialects you never heard of."

"Cut it out, Nicko. Treat our clients with a little more respect or
I'll pry a few scales off your back."

"Okay, but those legs--that torso."

Mike whirled and Nicko bounced out of the cabin. "You've got to know
him. He's completely loyal and he'd die ten times for any one of us.
But he never learned tact."

"I don't know why you had to cut him off so abruptly." Doree was
indignant.

It was Mike's turn to blink. "He was getting pretty personal--"

"I guess I know a compliment when I hear one, Mr. Mallison."

"Mike."

She grinned. "Okay--Mike. I'd like to see the ship when you've got
time."

"I've got time now. Let's go."

They started at the prow and worked backwards. Her trip to Outer Port
had been her first space flight, a fact that amazed Mike in this age
when even the middle-class Terrans vacationed on Mars.

"We had so little time," Doree said. "And so little money."

He explained the working of the _Space Queen_, enjoying the chore, and
they worked their way slowly backward. Amidship, Doree said, "I think
I'll look in on father."

She went below and almost immediately, Nicko appeared at the after end
of the companionway. "We've got company, Mike."

"What do you mean, company?"

"Ship winging to."

Mike scowled. "Out here? The radio hasn't spoken. Maybe they're in
trouble and can't sound out."

He ran aft, Nicko stumping along behind. He looked out the stern port.
A ship all right. A slim cruiser of the D class, the light of faraway
suns reflecting against its hull, giving it the ghostly appearance of
all craft in space.

"Ever see that ship before?" Mike asked.

"Not me. I'll bet my right top arm it never moored at Outer Port. If
it had we'd know the boat."

"Lots of ships never moored at Outer Port. Go forward and see if you
can speak to them. Maybe they can sound in."

Nicko left and Mike watched the ship arc closer. Mike admired the
skill of the pilot, then realized the ship was on complete automatic,
taking its impulses from radar bounced against the hull of the _Space
Queen_. No human pilot could hold a ship that steady.

She appeared intent on locking to the _Space Queen_'s after hatch.
Mike wished her all the luck in the universe and hoped he had what she
was looking for. In case of illness his stock of medicines was only
standard and would not cover any extraordinary cases.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then he stiffened. There was movement next to the antenna prow on the
ship's nose. A small hatch was opening. Mike cursed himself for
stupidity. Yet at the same time, he could think of nothing that should
have made him suspicious. These were peaceful areas. It would have
been ridiculous for bandits to work this area. Raiding here made as
much sense as operating in the heart of the Gobi Desert back on Terra.

Even as he whirled to try and reach the control cabin in time, a steel
arm shot out from the pit uncovered by the raised hatch. Mike didn't
see the fine-wired grid at the end of the arm but he knew it was there
and he knew its purpose.

       *       *       *       *       *

As he ran, he sensed the magnetic wires groping toward the hull of the
_Space Queen_. If they made contact--

Contact was made while he ran up the companionway. The
electroparalysis bolt hit him while he was still twenty feet from the
control cabin. It caught him on his right toe with his left foot
extended. It froze him in that position, held him in the grotesque
running pose while fire poured through his veins. It held not only
Mike and every other living thing aboard, but froze the ship itself
into immobility; everything stopped except the raging movement of
flaming gases in the jet tubes and these too died out as their source
of supply was speedily choked.

Mike blacked out.

When his consciousness returned, Mike figured he had been out for
about an hour. He based this on past experience with electroparalysis
rays.

Using every ounce of will-power, he forced his elevated foot toward
the companionway floor. The magnetic field permeating the dead ship
was still potent, forming, in a sense, a maze of invisible wires,
holding him in his frozen position.

He knew that in the companionway he had taken the full brunt of the
charge. Possibly the others were again able to move about. But no one
came to his aid.

His foot touched the floor. He pulled at his back foot like a man
striving to loose himself from thick mud. He got it forward. A step,
then another. From the control cabin came the sound of dolorous curses
emitted in many languages. Nicko was again functioning.

Mike got his hands on the safety bars of the ladder leading down to
the lounge. He pulled himself toward it and as he was descending, the
magnetism of the electroparalytic bolt loosed its hold and he fell
headlong. Picking himself up, he hurried into the lounge.

Doree was alone. She was still frozen to the chair in which she sat.
Her legs were drawn up gracefully under her slim body. Only her eyes
were alive--questioning, beseeching.

Mike picked her up and laid her on the floor. He knelt and began
massaging the rigid muscles, drawing her legs out slowly, watching her
eyes for indications of pain.

"You'll be all right in a few minutes," he said. "We have to take it
slow and easy or you'll get the bends."

While he worked he was asking himself questions. Who? In God's
name--why? What reason had anyone for attacking the ship? There was
nothing of value aboard. He had no enemies--to his knowledge--in this
part of the universe.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doree was trying to speak. Her throat worked. Her eyes were frantic.
Mike got her legs straightened out without sending her into screaming
pain. Now she was rising into a sitting position on her own power.

"Took--took--Fa--him--" she whispered hoarsely.

"Your father--where is he?"

"McKee--Talbott--took him!"

"Who in the hell are McKee and Talbott?"

Gradually, her throat unlocked. "They came in and took him--carried
him out."

"I asked you who they were."

Tears welled in her eyes. She bit her lower lip and tried to control
her fluttering throat. "I--I tried to scream. When they carried him
out I couldn't do a thing." She burst into tears.

She was normal again. Mike got to his feet. "I've got to check the
ship. When I get back I want some answers and you'd better have them
ready."

He hurried from the lounge and up the ladder, almost slamming into
Nicko as he gained the companionway. Nicko's scales were a sickly,
pale green. He tottered weakly on his stumpy legs using all four of
his arms to support himself against the bulkhead.

He grinned hideously. "Friends of yours?"

"I don't know who the hell they were. You all right?"

"I'm fine."

Mike scowled up and down the companionway. "What shape are we in?"

"Bad."

"How bad?"

"The worst. The pile's gone."

"The _pile_!"

Mike ran aft. The door to the tube cabin stood open. The alley into
which the fifteen-pound, lead-crated pile had lately been driven, was
empty.

       *       *       *       *       *

Swiftly Mike assessed the situation. A helpless ship. A derelict.
They'd entered through the aft airlock. They'd taken Professor Brandon
off that way. Then they'd closed the lock again.

That meant only one thing. Through pure cruelty, they had avoided
swift death to the ship's occupant in favor of a long, lingering one.
Only the basest of men would do a thing like that.

Mike was not acquainted with McKee or Talbott, but he knew something
about them. They were the lowest type of the human species. Only the
bloodthirsty pirates of Ganymede ever made their victims walk space.

He returned to where Nicko was clinging to the companionway
guard-rail. Nicko said, "You haven't seen it all, yet."

"Is there more?"

"That's only the beginning. They smashed everything in the control
cabin. All the navigating instruments. Even if we had a pile this boat
couldn't find its way down Main Street at high noon."

It followed, Mike thought grimly. "I'll be drummed out of the Guild
for this."

"If you ever get within shouting distance of Outer Port again, which
you won't."

Mike doubled his fists. "To stand flatfooted and let a boarder move in
and take my pile--and my client. How much of an idiot can a man be!"

Doree came up the ladder, her eyes wide with fright. "Did you find
him?"

"No--and don't start crying. Why didn't you tell me about these men?
Why didn't you give me a chance to protect my ship?"

"We--we didn't know they'd follow us. We--I didn't dream they had any
idea of--"

"They followed you. And they had the idea. They took our pile and
shoved us off on a blind orbit. They arranged for us to die out here."

"Won't we--we be found?"

"A million to one shot in these spaces."

"More than that," Nicko said. "A billion to one. It's empty out here,
lady."

Mike saw that Doree was again about to burst into tears. He took her
by the arm. "We're going to the lounge and you're going to tell me all
about this--what's been going on." He drew her toward the ladder,
calling over his shoulder. "Clean up what you can, Nicko. See what
other deviltry they arranged."

In the lounge, Mike sat Doree firmly into a chair. "Now let's not have
any tears. Just tell it the way it happened."

       *       *       *       *       *

Doree had got control of herself. She sat straight, miserable, a
little pathetic, Mike thought. She said, "Lorn McKee and Dean Talbott
were Paris art collectors. Their reputations were not of the best but
when they approached father he listened to them.

"They had a strange looking scroll made of papyrus. It had writing on
it in an ancient script and they wanted father to translate it for
them."

"Would that have made it more valuable?"

"Of course. At first father was suspicious, thinking it was some kind
of a hoax. They told him the scroll had come from an Egyptian tomb but
would tell him no more relative to its origination. They brought it to
him because he was Terra's foremost authority in that field.

"Father discovered immediately that the scroll was genuine and very
old. Papyrus was a material the ancient Egyptians used."

"And--?" Mike asked impatiently.

"He refused to translate it for them because they in turn would not
tell him what they proposed to do with it. He felt it should be turned
over to the proper authorities--some university--and besides, he was
suspicious of the two men. So they went away and tried to get it
translated elsewhere. This was impossible, so they came back and
offered to sell it to father for a very low price but with the
stipulation that he keep what he learned strictly to himself.

"He wanted to make the translation and was tempted because he already
had a clue to its nature. He believed the scroll verified a theory
long in existence on Terra relative to the extraterrestrial
origination of mankind."

"You mean he thought it proved the Neanderthal and Cro-Magnon came
from other planets."

"No, not so far back as that. There is little doubt they originated on
Terra. Father is a specialist in Egyptology. And it was his belief
that a great deal of their early history was purposely distorted.
There is confusion in what little can be found concerning them and
father sincerely believed they came from another planet. He was sure
they brought with them a knowledge of science far greater than any
existing upon Terra."

"And the papyrus verified his belief?"

"Completely."

"What did it tell him?"

"That the forefathers of those who later became the Egyptians, left
their native planet after a disagreement with the ruling Pharaoh and
sought a new home. They cruised for several lifetimes, raising and
educating their children and dying off, until they found Terra, a
planet almost identical to their own. The papyrus gave the location of
their home planet--hieroglyphics which father translated into a table
of accurate equations."

"How could he know they were accurate?"

Doree's head came up sharply. "If you were really aware of my father's
ability in his field, it wouldn't occur to you to ask."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I don't blame you for your faith but I still think it was a gigantic
hoax--for one reason."

"And that--?"

"If the ancestors of the Egyptians came to Terra, they had to have
great scientific and technical knowledge to get there. All right--then
what happened to the knowledge and the science? The Egyptians
certainly didn't take advantage of it."

"They used some of it. No one has been able to prove conclusively how
they built the pyramids."

"Slave labor."

"That is not a complete explanation."

"All right--forget the pyramids. What happened to the rest of their
science?"

"The answer lies in a basic trend of the Egyptians as a people. They
were completely preoccupied with death rather than life. To them,
their years of living was only a period in which to prepare for
eternity. Their ambitions and talents were directed toward the
building of great tombs and the perfect preservation of bodies after
death. In the light of this does it seem so strange that they turned
their backs on all knowledge except that which aided them in dead
directions?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike was regarding Doree with a new respect. "I owe you an apology.
You're a smart girl. You've got a brain in your head. I'm so used to
carting empty-headed females around the System that I'd forgotten
smart ones existed."

"I'm sure you mean that as a compliment, but the fact remains that
father and I blundered you into a perilous position. We should have
told you about McKee and Talbott. But we didn't think--"

"Your shortcoming was that you were honest and thought everyone else
was. That's a common failing."

"But we knew they had bad reputations."

"It's pretty obvious how their thinking went. They must have had a
clue to the contents of the papyrus. They knew your father wouldn't
act without integrity but they banked on his eagerness as a
student--figured it would cause him to accept their terms in order to
get his hands on the scroll because there was certainly nothing
dishonorable about buying it from them. They knew also that he would
keep his word, being that kind of a man."

Doree's shoulders drooped in misery. "I guess that's about it."

"It was the best way they could think of to get the papyrus translated
and still keep the contents secret." Mike rubbed his chin. "They were
pretty smart boys. They were certain your father would find a way to
act on whatever information it contained and all they had to do was
stay on his trail and await their opportunity."

"How could anyone be so vile?"

Mike ignored the question. "I said they were smart, but they weren't
smart enough."

"What do you mean?"

"This little trick of marooning us on a fatal orbit in space. It won't
work."

"Why not?"

"We'll follow them."

Doree was completely bewildered. "But you said your pile was stolen."

"It was. We won't need it."

"And all your instruments were smashed."

"We won't need them, either. Your father will tell them the planet's
location. There's not much else he can do. Then--we'll follow them."

"One of us is crazy," Doree said, weakly.

"No. McKee and Talbott were just badly informed. They have an
automatic ship and evidently don't know too much about it. You see,
the electroparalysis ray has one basic element around which it
functions--magnetism. The jolt they handed us was of such size that it
created a magnetic field around their ship. If they had been going
through an asteroid belt they would have been bombarded into oblivion.
As it is they'll still be bombarded in a sense--by us."

"You mean--"

"The field envelopes their ship and trails out behind it like an
invisible chain. They couldn't possibly have shoved us hard enough to
get us clear of it. So when they pulled out, the _Space Queen_ nosed
right around and followed them." Mike grinned. "We're on their tail
right now, just as surely as if they had us on a tow-rope."

"Then we can still help father!"

Mike sobered. "We don't know what we can do. We're still not out of
the woods. There's a little problem of landing a dead ship on that
planet after we come within range of its gravity. Then, too, heaven
only knows where we'll set down. If it's a big planet--"

Instead of wincing before this new peril, Doree stiffened against it.
"I'm sure you'll do all that any man could do."

"I'll do my best."

"And so long as the whole disaster was our fault--"

"Forget it." Mike conscious of a warmth rising within him, took his
eyes quickly from her face and went to check ship....

       *       *       *       *       *

The slow passage of time was the most difficult factor to contend
with. Mike wracked his brain for a means of speeding up the _Space
Queen_. He was confident that the craft was moving straight and true
in the wake of the other ship and that unless drastic adjustments were
made in the course, she would continue to do so. But so slowly--so
very slowly. Acceleration caused by the magnetic field had long-since
reached its apex and now the _Space Queen_ moved at a steady
unchanging pace.

He achieved a little more speed by taking charges from three of the
primers, placing them in the pile head, and igniting with the fourth
primer. He picked up possibly two Gs before the power burned out.

He and Nicko donned space suits, magnetized themselves aft, and opened
the suit's drive plugs to the maximum. The resulting force smashed
them against the hull, almost breaking their ribs. Some additional
acceleration was achieved but pathetically little.

Who would have thought, Mike pondered bitterly, that I'd land out here
pushing my own ship through space? What a laugh the wits at Outer Port
would get when and if this little adventure was sounded around.
_If_--that was the big word that stuck in Mike's mind.

An important facet of the problem was keeping Doree's morale high.
Mike enjoyed this. He learned all about her and there came a sudden
dizzy moment when he found himself kissing her. After that he was more
careful.

Then, at the last came the great thrill--abruptly, as all such things
come. Mike was puttering with the radio when Nicko turned from the
port to say, "Indescribably beautiful land ho! Luscious round planet
dead ahead at five o'clock!"

Mike leaped to the port. Smaller than Terra and with different
continental markings, but in other respects, quite similar. Nicko
jumped up and down clapping his four hands. Mike grabbed him and
lifted him in a bear-hug, scratching himself unmercifully on the
little Martian's sharp scales. Then he bolted aft to tell Doree.

There was no restraint in his kiss this time and for a few moments the
ship and the landfall vanished from their minds. They did not know
where they were; nor did they care.

Then Mike jerked himself back to the business at hand and rushed to
the pilot cabin; the dangerous business ahead of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were already in range, being gripped and dragged down by the
planet's pull. Mike ordered Nicko and Doree into straps and buckled
himself into the pilot's chair.

He surveyed the fast-greatening planet. There would be no choice of
landing fields. Mike could only hope to bring the _Space Queen_ down
on dry land rather than in the center of an ocean.

She was responding to her fins now and Mike put her into a long
glide. Below, the land and the water separated themselves and Mike
studied the gray expanse below. Ocean.

Mike leveled out and struggled for altitude. There was minor response
as the atmosphere outside clawed at the hull, dragging it down,
heating it a dull red.

All during the trip he had fought inertia. Now his problem was
reversed, rapid acceleration being the demon of the moment. A helpless
shell rocketing toward a solid obstacle.

Mike felt a surge of relief as the streaming gray below turned to
racing green. At least they would not finish up trapped in a
submarine. But the land could be as lethal as the sea and now the
moment was at hand.

Mike angled the fins to their maximum. He yelled. "Contact!" Then he
prayed.

There was a great crash--and oblivion.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pain brought back Mike's consciousness. Without opening his eyes, he
analyzed the pain. It was in his shoulder. He tried the muscles
gingerly and decided it wasn't broken. If that was the case the others
could have come through also. The results of crashes of this kind were
usually extreme one way or another. Either the passengers came through
unhurt or they were mangled into stew meat. Mike opened his eyes.

All was quiet. Both Nicko and Doree lay motionless under their straps;
still unconscious but with no visible injuries. But there was
something else there in the center of the cabin floor; something
Mike's dazed mind had difficulty in accepting.

A snake.

It was coiled lazily, its green and gold body the thickness of a man's
arm. It had a flat, triangular head with deadliness written all over
it and its eyes were upon the only moving thing in the room--Doree's
rising and falling breast.

The chill that went through Mike almost paralyzed him. In hypnotized
fascination he watched the sinuous uncoiling of the serpent; the
gliding movement in Doree's direction.

Then the girl's eyes opened.

"Don't move!" Mike snapped. "Everything is all right. We got down. But
you must stop breathing--hold your breath. Don't even move your eyes!
Stare straight at the ceiling."

Doree obeyed, and thus did not see the snake. But her fright was
apparent. Mike moved a slow hand toward the buckle on his chest. The
serpent's head flicked around at the movement. Mike's cold hand
gripped the buckle. He knew the snake's length was such that it could
reach him in a single long strike. He could only hope the serpent
would hesitate for a few seconds. The snake's head came around, then
drew back.

At that moment a voice broke the silence. "You--beautiful serpent.
Gorgeous green and gold clothes line. Over this way. Here I am."
Nicko's voice and with it the little Martian unbuckled his strap and
put his feet on the floor.

A hiss. The snake struck. Doree turned her eyes downward and screamed.
The snake's great head slammed against Nicko's leg. The Martian
laughed.

The snake ricocheted backward, dazed from the contact, two of its
fangs broken off on Nicko's steel-hard scales. Nicko got up and walked
over and put his heel on the serpent's head and crushed it. As the
long body lashed and writhed, Nicko looked down at it with a kind of
compassion. "Good-bye, little sister." Nicko looked over at Mike in
assumed surprise. "Was my pretty cousin bothering you? She only wanted
to say hello."

"All right," Mike barked. "You've had your little joke. Let's find out
where we are."

"In a jungle I guess--from the nature of the welcoming committee."

Mike helped Doree from her couch. She had sustained no injuries other
than a slightly sprained wrist. Mike got a rifle from the gun cabinet,
gave another to Nicko and armed Doree with a small pistol which she
tried to refuse.

Investigation showed the hull to be intact but two of the hatches had
been torn off their hinges and were nowhere in sight.

"A beautiful glide," Nicko commented, looking back at the broad furrow
that gave evidence of how the _Space Queen_ had come in. It was a good
thing for them.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A lucky one," Mike replied. He scanned the thick tropical vegetation
on every side.

"We could be down in the green jungles of Terra," Nicko said.

"We could at that. There is a river around here somewhere."

"How do you know?"

"I got a flash of a river as we glided in. Thought we were going to
hit it. Then we went over. It ought to be in that direction. Let's
go."

Doree, still stunned by the episode of the snake, was mute and pale as
she followed close behind Mike. Nicko brought up the rear. The going
was hard until Mike broke through into a comparatively open area. He
pointed. "There it is."

A silent, ominous river, dark under the hot rays of a high sun. Around
them, nothing moved; only the black waters of the river rushing onward
toward some distant rendezvous with the sea. Doree shuddered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike drew her into the circle of his arm. "Don't be afraid. This is a
break--just what we wanted. All rivers go somewhere and this one saves
us from fighting our way through the jungle an inch at a time."

"But we have no boat."

"We can make a boat." Nicko said. "The rubber mattresses and cushions
from the ship. I'll bet no one on this planet has ever seen such a
boat as we'll have."

Mike and Nicko struggled back and forth from the river bank to the
ship, bringing what was needed. Doree, fearing to remain alone,
trailed with them until she was exhausted, whereupon Mike began
building the raft, leaving the rest of the trips to the indestructible
Nicko. Mike bound the mattresses and cushions to a base of woven
reeds. The reeds grew in abundance in a nearby swamp. Doree helped
with the braiding and the work went swiftly.

Nicko made a half dozen more trips and returned from the last one with
several scales knocked off his back. "Somebody threw a brick at me,"
he said.

Mike scanned the now-menacing jungle wall. "A brick?"

"That was what it felt like. It hurt like hell."

"You didn't see anybody?"

"I did not. I didn't wait long enough."

"We've got to get out of here."

"An observation of amazing erudition."

Mike lashed a long flat piece of driftwood to the raft as a steering
oar, found two other such pieces to serve as unattached oars, and
helped Nicko finish with loading the supplies. "All right," he said.
"Let's go."

They cast loose and while Doree worked with the stern oar, Mike and
Nicko paddled feverishly toward the middle of the river. With this
objective achieved, Nicko took over the stern. Mike forced Doree to
lie down. He put a pillow under her head, kissed her and sat beside
her until her eyes closed. Then he went back and sat down beside
Nicko.

The latter had not forgotten his terrifying grin. "We certainly get
around, don't we?" he said cheerfully.

"I'm glad it makes you so happy."

"As a matter of fact I'm scared stiff. It is just that my sainted
mother told me always to keep a brave front."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike looked at his assistant with sudden fondness. "Who was your
mother, Nicko?"

Nicko shook his dragon's head sadly. "I can't seem to remember but I
know I had one. And of course she was saintly."

"And your father?"

A distant sound intruded, touching Mike's ears lightly. His eyes were
still upon Nicko as the latter said, "You've got me--but I have a
feeling he was a gallant knight in armor who swept my beautiful mother
off her fairy-like feet."

"No doubt," Mike smiled. The sound was louder now, but it still did
not catch his attention. He was remembering that encounter in the
polar forests of Mars; the day he found little Nicko crouching under a
bush; how he'd come within an ace of putting a bullet into the hideous
creature's brain. But some vagrant touch of compassion had stayed him.
The little monster seemed so lost, so pathetic, so helpless. He'd
taken Nicko back to camp, the Martian infant's parentage and ancestry
a mystery Mike felt would never be solved.

What sort of hideous mating had occurred, he wondered, to produce this
mongrel creature with the brain of a human and the body of a beast?
Mike held forth his hand. "You were a vicious little devil," he said.
"I'll wear that scar forever."

Nicko sighed gustily. "If you beat me unmercifully each fine morning
for the rest of my miserable life, the punishment would be light for
such a heinous deed."

Mike laughed and started to get to his feet. Halfway up, he paused,
crouching there. Then his voice thundered. "Grab an oar! Pull for
shore! Pull for God's sake!"

In an instant both of them were tearing the water in an effort to
reach the nearest bank. As they worked, the current upon which they
moved swept forward at an ever-increasing speed and the roar about
them was like the crashing of skyscrapers under bombardment.

They came ashore a scant six feet above certain death. Fortunately the
raft was light and they were able to gain a foothold and lift it from
the snarling waters.

Then, gasping for breath, they moved a few feet down-stream and stood
looking at the frothing cataract that dropped the great river a sheer
two-hundred feet to boulders below.

"I ought to be whipped for not attending to business," Mike said
bitterly.

Doree was clinging to his arm looking down at the awe-inspiring sight.
"You saved us, darling. Why should you criticize yourself?"

"It was too close--far too close."

Nicko said, "It seems to me the important thing now is where we go
from here."

"We carry the raft down those rocks and beyond the rough water."

"But why all that effort? Couldn't we be as happy up here as down
there?"

"All rivers lead to civilization," Mike said. "Or at least, they lead
to the places civilization naturally springs up."

"A logical observation."

"Also, I've got a hunch about this river. I may be wrong but I think
it might take us right where we want to go. I'll bet there are
interesting things ahead."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike turned and directed his words to Doree. "That papyrus your father
translated said the forefathers of the Egyptians sought a planet
similar to their own. Perhaps the similarity had to be more than
general. Such a thing is indicated by their traveling around for
several lifetimes. Anyhow, except for the tropical climate, this river
bears a great resemblance to one of the tributaries that feeds the
Nile back on Terra."

"You're quite right," Doree marveled.

"And this could well be Victoria Falls. I wonder if another Egypt
doesn't lie below."

There was awe in Doree's voice. "Before Egypt--"

"What did you say?"

"An Egypt--a great civilization that flourished on this planet before
Egypt--before the Terran Egypt was even dreamed of."

Mike smiled fleetingly. "That's what you and your father have
believed, isn't it? So why be surprised?"

"It's just that--well, being so close to it--realizing it might
_really_ exist--"

Mike laughed. "I understand. But we're still a long way from it." He
turned to the Martian. "Come on, Nicko, let's get busy with this
stuff."

The portage was laborious and dangerous. It took the balance of that
day. Even when the sun set they had still not reached the termination
of white water.

They found an open area beside the racing river that would have been
covered during high water and Mike decided it would be a good place to
camp. While Mike broke out the supplies, and Doree prepared the meal,
Nicko stood on the alert with a rifle over his arm scanning the line
of undergrowth at the edge of the forest.

After all three had eaten, Mike directed Nicko to bed down in order to
be ready for the second watch. He urged Doree to sleep also, but she
insisted on sitting with him during his watch. And though her head
drooped several times, she remained with him and refused to sleep.

When Nicko took over the watch, Mike stretched out under his blanket
near Doree. He dozed off and was then awakened by a pressure against
his back. Doree, snuggling close. "It's cold," she murmured, and
drifted to sleep with a contented sigh. It was a calm, restful
slumber.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sharp bark of Nicko's rifle awakened Mike after what seemed to him
only a few moments of sleep. He sprang up to find dawn breaking and
Nicko sending another shot into the undergrowth.

Mike grabbed his own rifle and ran to the Martian's side. "What's
wrong?"

Nicko lowered his weapon. "I saw four platoons of infantry charging
out of the brush--I think."

"In other words you think maybe you saw something. You don't know what
it was. It could have been nothing at all."

"All right. Have it your way," Nicko said serenely.

"Come on. Let's get going. We'll eat something on the raft."

       *       *       *       *       *

But they never reached the raft. Mike's words had hardly been spoken
when the forest erupted with a mass of savagery. Several hundred tall,
screaming black men clad sketchily in brilliantly colored feathers and
paint.

Both rifles barked. Nicko's shot was high, but Mike brought the
foremost of the black warriors skidding forward on his face.

Maybe that will stop them, Mike thought desperately. Maybe they've
never seen firearms before. He held up his second shot for the
briefest moment hoping the savages would be awed into retreat.

But this was not the case. They charged forward in renewed fury and
Mike again went to work. He dropped three more of the charging maniacs
while Nicko, probably the poorest shot who ever lifted a rifle,
accounted for one unfortunate warrior with a twenty-shot spray of
atomic pellets.

The black men, who had had only a scant fifty yards to cover, were now
upon the three. Two of them seized Doree, an act which turned Mike
into a terrible fighting machine.

Not able to fire the gun effectively at such close range, he reversed
it and created bloody havoc, using the butt as a club. Two skulls
cracked sharply under its impact and as he fought, Mike saw Nicko go
down. He couldn't reach him.

Several warriors raised the iron-toothed clubs they carried and
crashed them down upon Nicko's unprotected body.

The result would have been comic under less grim circumstances. The
clubs of the warriors caused Nicko's almost indestructible hide to
ring like a great bell. The handle of one warrior's lethal bludgeon
snapped and the attacker stared at it in amazement. The rest beat down
again upon the prone Nicko, their clubs bouncing off and resounding in
a sort of anvil chorus.

The attention of the warriors bent upon annihilating Mike was diverted
by the intriguing spectacle of this strange four-armed creature
refusing to be clubbed to death. So Mike was able to get in some
telling blows that felled three more of the terrible warriors.

He knew however, that the end was already written in the bloody sands
around him. He could only fight to the last moment, bringing down as
many of the enemy as possible.

His heart was sick at what would surely be Doree's fate. He saw her
just beyond the perimeter of battle still held by her two captors who
were viewing the fight with rapt interest. If he could only reach her.
One swing of his gun butt and she would serve no vile purpose in the
hands of these raiders.

[Illustration: The beastman's intent was all too clear.]

Mike mowed a bloody path in her direction. He covered more than half
the distance before he knew he would never make it.

However, the end of this affair was not written in the sands, but in
the skies overhead. Mike realized this when the attackers stopped
fighting, all eyes turned heavenward in sudden terror. Mike's eyes
followed theirs and he saw the ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a craft such as he could never have imagined in dream or
reverie. A great rectangular platform, its polished sides inlaid with
gold and fist-sized gems. There was a high railing around its edge
over which myriad faces peered down. Above it, elevated upon shining
cables, were two glowing balls not more than two feet in diameter, and
even in his preoccupation with more serious matters, Mike realized the
whole craft was suspended from these two balls, that they were its
means of buoyancy.

Then he was in the midst of a disordered flight as the warriors
charged screaming back to the forest. The ship was settling swiftly
toward the surface of the river and now a crystalline ray of some sort
shot out from the forward deck, cutting down the terrorized warriors
in their flight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every able-bodied one had fled the scene of battle. Some gained the
forest where the crystalline ray crisped the overgrowth into black
ashes as it nipped at their singed heels. Those not fortunate enough
to escape were but small nubs of blackened ashes on the open shore.

The ray had avoided touching the heart of the battleground and Mike
found himself standing alone among the bodies of the blacks he had
dispatched. Nicko was getting wearily to his feet. Doree stood frozen
nearby, abandoned by her captors, the great ship holding her gaze as a
snake would hold that of a bird.

The ship hung motionless a few inches above the rushing water, its
port side flanking the shore. And as a section of the railing arced
down from its position to become a landing ladder, Mike realized the
futility of delayed flight.

This was a fighting ship; a patrol craft ready and able to spread
devastation in any direction. There were perhaps a hundred men aboard
and as a squad filed down the ladder, Mike was struck by the
perfection of their six-foot bodies and by the pride and arrogance of
their manner.

Their attitude was one of casual contempt mixed with mild interest.
Doree had moved into the shelter of his arm and the grumbling Nicko
had also come close but with interest centered more upon his aching
scales than this new possible enemy.

While the squad stood at attention, their leader surveyed the bloody
section of shore. He checked each of the prone men and found only one
still alive, a seven-foot, ebon-skinned warrior who got to his feet
when the leader kicked him and stood erect but swaying drunkenly from
the blow Mike had laid across his skull during the battle.

Shoving the warrior roughly toward the silent trio, the leader took a
small object from the gold-inlaid shoulder sack that seemed to be a
part of his uniform. The object consisted of a short rod with a
crystal ball on one end. The man grasped the ball in his palm, pointed
the rod at the fallen men and began spraying them with the same
crystalline ray that had emanated from the ship. The resulting fire
was instantaneous and intense. The prone bodies crackled for a moment
and were reduced to charred fragments. The leader went about this work
with the distasteful look of a man cleaning out a garbage pail. When
the task was finished, he turned his attention to the four prisoners.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nicko was the prime object of his interest. He cut the little Martian
out of the group, shoving him roughly aside, then walked slowly around
him several times as though unable to convince himself that such an
improbable creature could really exist.

A sharp command from the deck of the ship terminated his inspection
and he spoke brusquely to the group in a tongue Mike did not
understand.

"What did he say?" Mike asked of Nicko.

For once, the latter was not interested. "How do I know?" he growled.
"Gad! My aching back!"

The leader motioned to the squad, whereupon the prisoners were pushed
toward the ladder.

The boarding was accomplished swiftly. The prisoners were herded
forward and onto a gold-inlaid bench just above the prow. The ladder
was lifted and the craft moved straight upward like an elevator.

After ascending three or four hundred yards, it leveled off and swept
gently forward, down-river. None of those aboard laid hands upon the
prisoners. Nicko was still the center of attention and also of the
conversation passed among the soldiers. They were handsome specimens,
erect and beautifully built, clad in identical uniforms the cost of
which would have been staggering on Terra or anywhere else in the
System.

"This ship," Mike said. "Is there anything familiar about it?"

He had spoken to Doree and the latter looked at him questioningly and
then glanced about the ship. "I've certainly never seen anything like
it before."

"Of course not, but the styling, the decorations, they could only be
classed as--"

"Egyptian!"

"At least a forerunner of what we consider Egyptian. And this river.
Look out ahead of us. See how it broadens. See the wide level fields
on either side."

"The Nile," Doree whispered.

"Not the Nile, but obviously a sister. The Egyptians who fled this
planet certainly hunted until they found exactly what they
wanted--found it on Terra in a system far from their own."

Mike turned his attention to a conversation that was going on between
Nicko and the black prisoner. The language was a primitive guttural of
some sort but Nicko was obviously using it skilfully. He grinned at
Mike and said, "We were wrong about those people. They are fine
characters. This is M'landa, a leader of the tribe known as the
H'Lorkas--or at least that's as close as I can give it to you in
Terran. He is an extremely fine fellow."

"Is that so?" Mike asked grimly. "Then why did they grab Doree?"

"They meant her no harm. They didn't want her injured."

"I can imagine why. And if they're such fine fellows why did they
attack us?"

The question seemed to embarrass Nicko. "I guess my aim wasn't so bad
after all. They were keeping a sharp eye on us--wishing us no harm
whatever. But when I fired, I killed one so they naturally got sore."

       *       *       *       *       *

"What does he know about this outfit?"

"Scoundrels. We would have been better off with the H'Lorkas. This is
a patrol ship of the Ptomenites. They are the tyrants of this planet,
their power contested only by the people of Baserite to the north. But
the Baserites always come out on the bloody end of the stick."

"Has he any idea what will happen to us?"

"He expects to be sacrificed to some slob of a god they worship. Then
his body will be preserved and put in a trophy room they call the
Gallery of the Dead."

Mike turned a quick, meaningful look at Doree, but he had no time to
comment because at that moment the door of a small cabin opened and a
girl came forth. The cabin was aft of the ship and the girl came
swiftly forward, pride and arrogance written in every line of her
beautiful body.

But it was not these qualities that caused Mike to gasp and Doree to
blush deeply. It was the regal figure's almost complete nudity. She
wore only the briefest of attire across her breast and hips.

"My dark friend says that's Katal'halee, Princess of the Ptomenites,"
Nicko whispered. "She rides along with the boys once in a while for
the exhilarating pleasure of it."

"I imagine the boys get a little pleasure out of having her along,
too," Mike said.

Then, with the queenly nude not a dozen feet away, Doree grasped
Mike's arm. He glanced across and saw that her eyes were sweeping past
Katal'halee to the small cabin. Its door had again opened. Two men
emerged and moved forward. They seemed entirely at home and wore smug
smiles.

"Lorn McKee!" Doree gasped. "Dean Talbott!"

The Terran origination of these two was obvious. McKee was bald,
paunchy, middle-aged, his face loose from easy living. Talbott tended
toward the more athletic figure. He was dark, his eyes clear and
sharp, his mouth cruel.

"Surprise," Nicko said with a noticeable lack of warmth in his voice.
"Bet you never expected to see us on your front porch."

       *       *       *       *       *

Talbott smiled coldly. "Yes, and no. After we left you in space we
thought we were rid of you. But we saw you tagging after us when we
were over the planet and it was too late to do anything about it.
Congratulations. How did you manage it?"

"What have you done with my father?" Doree asked.

Talbott pondered the loathing in her eyes. It did not seem to bother
him. "Your father is well taken care of. He will be--" McKee raised a
delicate hand. "But the details would only horrify you."

Mike was on his feet and had the Terran by the throat. Talbott gagged
and flailed helplessly. He was no weakling, but still not a match for
Mike's strength and rage.

The haughty-eyed native girl had been standing silent, regarding the
tableaux. Now she snapped a command and two soldiers stepped forward
and seized Mike. A third hit Mike a vicious blow across the skull with
the flat of an ugly jeweled sword he carried. Mike staggered and fell
back on the bench, blood running from his scalp.

Talbott rubbed his throat and adjusted his clothing. Viciousness shone
in his eyes. "We had no great animosity toward you before, but now--"

"That's why you left us stranded in space?" Mike asked.

"It was just that we did not want to bloody our hands killing you but
you had to be got out of the way."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, we're in the way now."

"Not at all. We have had time to put ourselves in solid with these
fierce but rather stupid people. We've also had time to arrange for
this hostile reception accorded you. We told them--"

"I can't see that it matters what you told them. We can see the
result."

"I'm more interested in how you got to them," Nicko said. "You don't
know their lingo."

"There are ways if one has the time." McKee had come forward and was
regarding Nicko with interest. He was not alone. Katal'halee and every
soldier within range was also regarding him with interest. "Just what
manner of creature is this, anyhow?" Talbott asked.

"Why you slab-sided slob--!" Nicko yelled.

Talbott flushed and took a backward step. The three soldiers moved
forward, scowling.

"Take it easy," Mike said. "We know how we stand. It's just as well we
don't antagonize these people any further until we can get some kind
of foothold."

"You'll get a foothold," McKee sneered. "In the priests' embalming
rooms." With that, he turned and walked away, obviously satisfied with
the situation. Talbott turned to follow him. He bowed to Katal'halee
as though awaiting her pleasure. The proud native Princess appeared to
have had enough of this spectacle and moved haughtily aft. As he
followed her, Talbott glanced swiftly back at the prisoners as if to
say: _See how solidly we're in? You haven't got a chance._ This was
all too evident.

"What do you suppose they're up to?" Mike asked.

Doree looked up questioningly. "What do you mean?"

"They aren't just here to enjoy the hospitality of these people.
They've got something more in mind."

"They're after the loot, what else?" Nicko said.

"If you're right and I think you are, they must have a plan. And if
the plan is what I think it is, they've got their ship ready for a
quick blast-off."

Doree's face was tight with inner turmoil. "We've got to find father!
We've got to help him!"

Mike took her hand. "We'll do our best, but you must keep a grip on
yourself. Your going to pieces won't help."

Doree made an effort. "I'm sorry. I'll--"

Her words were broken off by sudden activity on the ship. Mike glanced
out and noted the landscape had changed to one of broad cultivation.
The rough jungle country had completely vanished. Obviously the ship
had been moving at great speed, its effect on the passengers lessened
by the huge glass shield in front of the ship's prow. Looking ahead,
he could see the spires of a city in the distance.

But this was not the object of the patrol's concern. Their eyes were
riveted to another ship--a strange shining craft that was moving in
from the left at great speed.

Mike heard shouts of both consternation and anger in the odd tongue of
these people as they appeared to be girding for battle.

The approaching ship was of radically different design than the one on
which they were trapped. It was completely of metal and had no golden
or jeweled decorations. It was long and slim and completely enclosed
and had the appearance of a true fighting ship. None of its passengers
were visible.

Nicko had been talking to the feathered warrior. The latter had sat
silent during the brush with McKee and Talbott and Mike had almost
forgotten his presence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nicko turned in excitement. "He says that's a Baserite raider! He says
it's very seldom they come in so close but that one's planning to
raise general hell with this scow. This isn't one of the Ptomenite's
fighter fleet and we'll have a pretty rough time."

The golden craft was following a two-pronged plan. The Ptomenites were
spraying the sky with their deadly crystal ray and at the same time
kiting for home as fast as the ship would go. Out beyond, the slim
ship did a remarkable roll to avoid the ray and screamed in for the
kill.

The wind was howling around the Ptomenite ship now, and her timbers
groaned under the pressure. Then the Baserite craft attempted a
strike. It appeared to be trying for only a close arc but at the last
moment it nosed down in a breathtaking maneuver and streaked straight
for the exposed deck.

       *       *       *       *       *

Frantically, the Ptomenites brought their ray gun around to bear on
the death-laden juggernaut. They were partially successful, spitting
forth a deadly barrage just as the prow of the attacker crashed into
the deck.

Had the blow been uncontested, the Baserite ship would have roared on
through and gone its way in triumph. But the crystalline force-field
crashed out with a viciousness of its own. It had no seeming effect
upon the hull of the Baserite raider, but it hurled the craft back
from its position and far out into the sky.

Great damage had already been done, however. A gaping hole left the
bejeweled deck almost split in two. But by lucky chance, the overhead
globes had not been damaged and the speed of the Ptomenite ship did
not diminish.

It was streaking toward the city, now seen clearly from the deck and
as the Baserite ship righted itself, Mike saw similar ships--sleek
metal fighters, rising from a port near the city.

The commander of the Baserite ship seemed to be making a decision as
his craft hung in space. To attack or flee? Could he reach and
demolish the crippled barge before the Ptomenite fighters reached the
scene?

Both Mike and Nicko hung upon this indecision. Nicko said, "I hope
that stupid codger doesn't commit suicide. If he does, we go down
too."

"Maybe it's just as well," Mike said grimly.

"I've always subscribed to staying alive as long as possible," Nicko
retorted.

The commander made his decision. The ship streaked in, dancing like a
zephyr to avoid the crystalline ray. But there was no longer any great
danger from this because the tilt of the deck made accurate aiming
impossible for the Ptomenites.

Straight in for the kill now, came the Baserite ship; straight in
toward the crippled deck awash with the blood of smashed and maimed
soldiers; alive with the screams of the agonized and the dying.

Doree covered her face with her hands and came into Mike's arms. So
she did not see that the Ptomenites had one maneuver left; a perilous
one, but nonetheless a maneuver.

The craft was now over the level ground on the near outskirts of the
city. It hung motionless, allowing the Baserite craft to take deadly
aim.

But as the sleek ship rocketed in, the commander of the Ptomenite
craft waited until the last moment and then released whatever force
held the ship in the air. The split deck dropped like a stone, but too
late for the other ship to change course.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Baserites had gambled and lost. As the ship arced again skyward, a
dozen similar fighters closed in from two directions. They emitted the
deadly crystalline fire. For a few moments, the Baserite ship seemed
unharmed. Then it's hull began to glow; a faint pink, a cherry red, a
bright crimson. Then a brilliant explosion lighted a sky made hazy by
the descending sun. And there was nothing.

Even as the Ptomenite ship plummetted downward, Mike marveled at the
effectiveness of the crystalline ray. Nothing remotely resembling it
existed in the universe he knew. Then his attention was concentrated
solely upon perils of the moment The Ptomenite commander was not able
to stop the rapid descent. He could only lessen it slightly and Mike
held Doree tight in his arms when the crash came.

He noted, fleetingly, that neither McKee nor Talbott had been injured
by the thrust of the Baserite ship. The door to the after cabin was
open and he saw them crouching inside, terror written across their
faces. Standing above them, proud and erect in the face of death,
stood the Princess Katal'halee and Mike felt a touch of admiration.
Then the craft hit the ground....

Mike realized he was not unconscious. He realized also that the ship
had braked slightly against the rocketing drop at just the last
moment.

It had blunted the force of the impact but little, however, and chaos
reigned upon the shattered deck. Mike found that both Nicko and Doree
were unconscious but that the H'Lorkan tribesman was shaking his head
groggily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike looked swiftly about. The dust cleared slightly nearby and he saw
that the prow of the deck had buckled as it hit, leaving a dark
opening beneath. There was room for a man in there. Mike glanced
around. In the confusion, no one was paying any attention to the
prisoners. Help was coming from the city but the rescuers were still
quite a distance away.

Mike motioned to the H'Lorkan, gesturing frantically. The other
quickly understood. Mike picked Doree up and put her inside the dark
opening. He followed her and moved her further inside away from the
small opening.

Then he looked out to find that the H'Lorkan had had difficulty with
Nicko, but had found a way of grasping him so as not to get cut by the
sharp scales. He pushed the little Martian's body in to Mike and
followed quickly.

Mike turned immediately to Doree and began examining her for injury.
There was a small gash on her forehead and a bruise on her shoulder.
She moaned and opened her eyes.

Mike put a finger over her lips. "Be very quiet."

"Where are we? What happened?"

"The ship crashed," he whispered, "but we may be safe for a while."

Doree smiled weakly. "I thought it was the end."

"How do you feel?"

"All right--I guess. Nothing seems to be broken."

"Lie and rest." Mike turned and found Nicko was sitting up, his eyes
open but still a trifle vacant. "You okay?"

"Guess so. They couldn't kill me with a club but I get knocked out
coming downstairs."

"Something must have hit you on the head just right."

"Something sure did. Tell me, what's the situation?"

"I don't know. I'm playing it from hand to mouth. We're hidden under
the ruins of the ship."

"They'll be after us."

"If they weren't killed." Mike found a small opening and peered out.
Help had come from the city now and he saw a line of stretcher bearers
moving away from the wreck. His spirits rose as he identified three of
the casualties. McKee, Talbott, Katal'halee. Were any or all of them
dead? He had no way of knowing. But at least they appeared to be past
caring about the four prisoners--at least for a time.

This did not insure safety however. The entrance to the improvised
cave darkened and a face appeared. Mike held his breath, expecting
challenge and exposure.

But none came. Then Mike realized that dusk had fallen and the eyes of
the searcher could not penetrate their hiding place with any degree of
surety. There were sharp words in the alien tongue. Obviously the
searcher was calling for any trapped or injured person.

Desperately, Mike hoped he would let it go at that. But such was not
the case. The man got down on his knees and pushed inside.

He found himself taken instantly into the iron grasp of three
desperate tenants. The H'Lorkan got him by the legs, Nicko hit him in
the middle, and Mike got strong hands on his throat, drove powerful
fingers into it, shutting off the man's breath forever.

The man struggled helplessly for a few moments. Then he lay still as
Mike snapped his neck suddenly backward and broke it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The darkness served another purpose. It kept Doree from the horror of
seeing a man killed not two feet from her eyes. But she realized what
was happening and buried her face in her hands.

"I'm sorry," Mike whispered. "But this is a matter of survival. Try
and look at it in that light."

There was nothing to do now but wait. Mike's hopes were slim and
desperate ones--that the slain man would not be missed for a while,
and that the wreckage of the ship would not be cleared away until the
following day.

The time dragged. Activity around the wreck dwindled and died out.
Total darkness had not yet come and Mike prayed for a few more minutes
of safety. But he was not to get it. A commotion over toward the city
brought him to a break in the wreckage through which he could scan
the area. A huge derrick-like affair, encrusted with the usual gold
and gems, was lumbering toward the wrecked platform. A gang of workmen
followed on foot. Incandescent balls were carried by another group,
brightly illuminating the scene.

"We've got to run for it!" Mike said. "Out--everybody! Run straight to
the left! There's an airfield over there. McKee and Talbott's ship is
on the far edge. I saw it just before we fell!"

The four wormed their way out from under the wreckage. "That ship
should be primed to go!" Nicko said with excitement.

"That's what I'm hoping."

"No!" Doree cried, and pulled away from Mike. "No! I won't go away
from here and leave my father! We've got to try to help him!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike did not hesitate. He swung a short solid right. It cracked
against Doree's jaw and she went limp. "Sorry," he said grimly, "but
this is no time to argue."

"We're going to hit that ship and blast out?" Nicko asked.

"What else? She'll hate me for it, but we've got to use common sense.
There's nothing we can do for Professor Brandon this trip. Maybe we
can come back later."

"It will be hard on the kitty."

"Okay," Mike retorted harshly. "My responsibility is getting Doree out
of here alive!"

"I'm not arguing," Nicko said. "Let's move."

The H'Lorkan had remained silent the whole time. He had done what was
expected of him promptly and efficiently and proven himself a good
comrade. But there was no time now to explain the plan to him. If he
had remained where he was they would probably have gone off and left
him. But when they started across the open country, he ran with them.

Mike momentarily expected the light from the glowing bulbs to pick
them out, but luck was with them and they gained the edge of the
airfield without being detected. They disappeared in among the craft.
There was quite an assortment of these and from the design and
variations in size, Mike got the impression they were pleasure craft
and not a part of the fighting force. Encrusted jewels were used in
profusion and decorations along with both silver and gold. On this
planet these precious materials seemed to have little value as no
guards were posted over the field.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were lights in a few of them. These, Mike carefully skirted
until the party came at last to the sleek black hull of the ship McKee
and Talbott had arrived in.

No sight ever gladdened his heart more than that of the great,
competent-looking monster. The ramp was down and all was darkness
inside.

"Shall I go ahead and check?" Nicko asked.

"It wouldn't help. If anyone's in there they'd probably nab you."

"Maybe I don't nab as easily as you think," Nicko growled.

"Anyhow, there isn't time. I think that crew spotted us when we
entered the field. We've got to get in and away."

"Once inside we can lock the hatches and hold them off until we
blast."

"You think so?" Mike asked. "With that funny fire ray they've got?"

"Well, maybe they just won't see us then."

"Let's hope not."

Nicko went up the ramp first. Mike followed with Doree in his arms.
The H'Lorkan warrior brought up the rear. Into the dark maw of the
ship they went, where Nicko found a utility flashlight on its hook
near the door to the companionway. He sent a beam on ahead. "Holy
Mother Mars!" he croaked.

The light flashed back off thousands of brilliant jewels almost
blinding them. The companionway was strewn inches deep in multicolored
gems.

"That's about what I figured," Mike said. "Those two have been loading
loot ever since they set down here. I'll bet every cabin's packed to
the guards."

This was true. As they moved through the ship it was like walking in
the treasure house of a Neptunian robber baron. "There's well over a
billion in here," Nicko marveled. "Whatever you say about our
friends--they aren't small timers."

"It will be a touchy job getting this ship off the ground," Mike said.

Nicko grinned hideously. "Want to stop and throw a few tons
overboard?"

"There's no time or believe me, I would. Let's get to the control
cabin.

It was the one cabin in which no wealth was stored. In the place of
jewels and bar-gold there was something else. It seemed McKee and
Talbott had not been as negligent of their hoard as it had first
appeared.

The half-dozen native guards in the control room allowed the four to
enter, standing close against the near wall. Then they fell upon them.
Taken by surprise and attacked by a greater number, the fugitives had
no chance. The H'Lorkan warrior, last into the room, fought bravely,
but when the lights were turned on, the prisoners had been swiftly
cuffed and subdued.

Doree had been jerked cruelly from Mike's arms and he saw a tall
native warrior just disappearing through the door carrying her in his
arms.

Mike's shoulders slumped as he tasted the bitter dregs of defeat....

       *       *       *       *       *

They were led through the city streets under heavy guard, streets
brightly illuminated by myriad glowing balls. The populace eyed them
curiously, their importance evidently indicated by the escort of a
dozen grim soldiers.

Only Mike and Nicko and M'Landa took the long walk up the avenue,
Doree having been spirited away. Mike was a man in deep torment as he
wondered helplessly about her fate. Was she already dead? Had she been
made the plaything of some high official? Of McKee or Talbott or both?
This last thought brought red rage flashing into his heart.

They were taken into a huge, gloomy building and down a long corridor.
As they approached it, a sound greatened before them; a rolling muted
thunder of mixed anger, pain, and terror. They entered a long, narrow
corridor, one wall broken at regular intervals by small metal doors.
Mike realized the sound came from beyond these doors--from the angry
throats of prisoners--that this could be nothing other than the city's
prison. There was no doubt of it.

The cavalcade stopped. One of the doors was unlocked and thrown open,
the three pushed roughly inside. The door slammed, the lock was turned
and the guards stalked away as they had come.

The interior of the cell was very dim. Mike blinked his eyes, striving
to pierce the dimness. He opened them and got a surprise. This was
more of a cage than a prison. The entire wall opposite the door
consisted of bars.

The three went forward and stood in mute wonder at what they saw. The
cells were elevated and ran in a circle around an amphitheater--a
great lighted pit--so that the prisoners were spectators at the drama
that went on below.

It was indeed a strange place, this pit, its purpose temporarily
obscure to the three prisoners. It contained great vats of steaming,
multicolored liquids, many tables, a great number and variety of
frames, racks, and instruments.

There were perhaps a dozen men at work down there. They appeared to be
making preparation for what was to follow. Mike wondered about their
occupation, then turned sharply on Nicko.

"What's the matter with you? Why aren't you finding out about this?"

Nicko stared in amazement. "Me? How the devil can I--?"

"The H'Lorkan. He might be able to give you some information. Ask
him!"

Nicko shuddered as though coming out of a daze. "Sure. I guess my
wheels got kind of stopped."

M'Landa, who never seemed to speak unless spoken to, answered Nicko's
questions calmly. Mike watched the two as they conversed; saw Nicko's
increasing indignation and horror. "All right!" Mike snapped. "Don't
keep it to yourself. What did he say?"

"Not much. Just that these are the high priests of the Ptomenties.
They prepare the bodies of the dead for burial and their job is to
make them look so life-like that you wouldn't even know they were
dead. This is their experimental laboratory--where they keep their
hands in. They experiment on the prisoners."

As the chill went through Mike, he saw four guards who had been
stationed on the far side of the pit acknowledge a sign from one of
the priests and start toward a staircase leading to the prisoner's
balcony.

They stopped at one of the cells and unlocked a door set in the barred
front. As they entered a roar of hatred went up from every cell in the
dreadful circle.

       *       *       *       *       *

As he watched, Mike was conscious of the fact that only he and Nicko
were watching the proceedings, that M'Landa's face was not glued to
the bars. The thing's too horrible for the H'Lorkan to take, Mike
thought. He's crouching back there behind us--covering his face most
likely. And I can't say I blame him.

The guards came forth from the cell dragging a screaming victim, a
tall naked speciman who bested even the Ptomenites in physical
perfection. Here, Mike realized, was truly a man.

The screams had been from rage, not from fear. As the door snapped
behind him, the victim stopped screaming, evidently realizing this was
the end, that escape was now impossible. He raised his head, a look of
contempt lighting his handsome features. He walked proudly amidst the
guards. He seemed completely indifferent to whatever fate awaited him.

Mike stared as the man was led to the center of the pit. Chains were
clamped to his wrists and ankles. Then the guards lifted him, holding
him horizontal. One of the priests extended his arms upward, over the
prone man, and seemed to be mouthing a prayer or incantation. He
appeared to Mike to be asking some deity to accept this poor offering.

This ceremony over, the guards walked with the helpless man toward a
great vat of smoking purple liquid. But at this moment, Mike's
attention was diverted. A door had opened far down the circle and two
figures were approaching. As the guards lifted the unfortunate
prisoner and threw him in the vat a great roar of fury went up from
the circle of cells. And Mike recognized the approaching figures.

McKee and Talbott.

McKee was amply bandaged about the head and shoulders. Talbott
appeared to have come off better, only his right wrist and elbow
tightly wrapped.

They moved past the cells until they were confronting Mike and Nicko.
There they stopped. McKee, the fat one, grinned and glanced at his
companion. "Dangerous looking specimens, aren't they?"

Talbott wore a sneer. "Quite. The priests will have a lot of fun with
the scaly creature. I understand they're already discussing him--eager
to get their hands on him."

Mike's rage tore at his own throat. He strove for control of his
voice. "What have you swine done with Doree?"

A look of disappointment came on Talbott's face. "I wanted her
for--for other things, but I wasn't able to handle it. So she comes in
here like the rest."

"You mean they're going to throw her into that--?" the question was
from Nicko as every scale on his body quivered.

Mike saw that the prisoner below had now been removed from the vat. He
had been laid on a table and one of the priests was advancing upon the
body with a long shining needle in his hand. He pointed the needle
very carefully at a place on the man's skull.

"She's next, I understand," Talbott was saying easily. "She is in the
other block. Only male prisoners on this side. They'll bring her in
soon. It will be quite a show. Perhaps we'll stay to watch."

Mike could control himself no longer. He flung himself against the
bars like a wild beast. Even though in no danger, McKee drew back in
alarm. He said, "The sooner that one's in the Hall of the Dead, the
better."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike had been conscious of a hand touching his arm but he had paid no
attention. Now, as the two Terrans turned to leave, he turned also,
with tears of helpless anger welling in his eyes. It was M'Landa. The
H'Lorkan spoke.

"What's he saying?" Mike asked.

As M'Landa spoke, a quick change came over Nicko. He whirled and
stared back in to the cell. "He says there's another man in this cell
with us. He's been talking to him. He's a Baserite."

Now Mike saw the man sitting in a shadow against the wall. Two things
had kept him from noticing before--the dim light and the incidents of
terrible interest down in the pit. As they approached, the man got to
his feet and spoke. Mike could not understand what he said, but he now
knew the man thrown brutally into the vat of purple liquid had also
been a Baserite. This man in the cell could have been his twin.

"Are you able to understand him?" Mike asked Nicko.

"Sure. He said he was watching us--trying to figure out whether we
were spies?"

"Spies! Spying on whom?"

The questions and answers were going back and forth through Nicko. He
asked the Baserite. The man said, "Upon me."

"Who are you?"

"I am Mertaan, a fighting Prince of Baser. I was taken from a Baserite
ship."

"Too bad, fellow. I'm sorry."

"It was no accident. I arranged to be taken."

"That hardly makes any sense."

The man spoke through grim lips, his clear eyes blazing. "That's why I
wondered about you--wondered if our plot was suspected. We can't take
a chance."

"Your plot?"

"Yes. But I think you are genuine prisoners."

Nicko translated and added, "You can be damned sure about that."

"What plot are you talking about?" Mike asked.

"Baser attacks the Ptomenites in force tonight."

"I'm glad to hear that but I don't see how you can be much help in
here."

"This is one facet of the plan. We corrupted a scant few of the
Ptomenite guards. They are our men."

An odd thought struck Nicko. "We're glad to hear that too, but could
you tell me something? With gold and jewels lying around on the ground
what kind of bait lures a man on this planet."

"Our women are the most beautiful and exciting females in existence,"
the Baserite said grimly.

Nicko whistled and Mike snapped. "Quit taking up time with silly
questions. We want to know more of this plot."

Mertaan took a key from the front of his jacket. "There is one or more
Baserites in every cell of this block. Each has a key that will unlock
his cell. The Baserite war fleet comes over soon. When we hear the
whine of the ships, we strike. Are you with us?"

"We could hardly be with the Ptomenites."

Mertaan eyed Nicko suspiciously. "Is the strange one also with us?"

"Just wait and find out!" Nicko said.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Baserite turned even grimmer of face. "I am taking no chances.
This plan must work. My brother just died down there in their reeking
vat--"

Mike was astounded. "You mean you had a key? You could send the whole
cell block to his rescue? But you let him die?"

Ice glazed over the pain in the Baserite's eyes. "There is much more
at stake here than one life. A nation. The time was not right. I had
hoped my brother would be spared a few minutes longer but it was not
to be."

Mike marveled anew. Truly--these Baserites were men of iron will.
"When?" Mike asked grimly.

"Soon." Mertaan took a small, strange-looking weapon from his pocket.
It resembled a pistol enough to be identified as such. "I wish I could
offer you arms, but smuggling them in was very risky. What few we have
are in the hands of picked warriors."

Sweat was standing out on Mike's brow. "Never mind the guns. I just
hope it's soon. The next one to go into that vat is a girl who--"

The Baserite's eyes filled with quick sympathy. "One of you, my
friend?"

"One of us."

"I can only hope the ships come first."

Mike licked his dry lips. "But if they don't--you say you have some
guns--the keys." He was looking at the Baserite with fixed
calculation, his thoughts transparent.

Mertaan had no difficulty in divining them. "We cannot move until the
ships come. If you strive to change this I shall kill you swiftly and
silently. I shall kill everyone in the cell to ensure silence."

Mike's look remained fixed. He knew he did not have the courage to
watch Doree die horribly when there was a key and a weapon within his
reach. He deliberately forced the cold look from his face but whether
the Baserite's suspicion was lulled, he could not tell.

Mertaan smiled coldly and said, "There is another of your kind in the
cell block."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike took a step forward, but the Baserite stepped warily back. "An
old man?" Mike asked.

"A very old man. He is four cells down. We know nothing of him because
no one can speak his language."

Professor Brandon! Mike sent up a silent prayer of thanksgiving. "He
will be released when the time comes?"

"If he chooses. None will be forced to go against their wishes, but I
cannot imagine anyone refusing."

Mike turned to the bars gripping them hard. Several priests were
working ghoulishly over the body of the dead Baserite. Mike looked
toward the various entrances to the pit. Through which of these would
they bring Doree? He prayed that none of the doors would open.

But as though part of a plan to torture him, one of the doors opened
suddenly. Two guards came through.

They were leading Doree.

She was very pale and seemed to Mike to have grown increasingly
beautiful. She wore a simple golden robe and the guards did not treat
her as roughly as they had handled the Baserite. Small consolation.

She had found a great courage and walked serenely with her head held
high and Mike's pride and love almost burst his heart. Desperately he
tried to keep control over himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doree advanced under close scrutiny of the guards to the point at
which the Baserite had been slain. She appeared empty of all fear.

Then a priest advanced and stood for a moment looking at her. In his
hands he held two lengths of golden chain. A great silence fell over
the watching prisoners in the cells, every eye glued on the priest and
this beautiful girl.

Then a great roar of anger arose as the priest reached out and whipped
Doree's gown from her body. She stood naked in the center of the pit.

Mike went mad. With a roar he turned and hurled himself upon Mertaan.

The latter, even though sharply alert for attack, was not quick enough
to get his weapon into action against Mike's lightning rush. Mike
closed with him and they went down.

The Baserite was probably the stronger of the two, but his strength
was no match for Mike's demoniacal rage. His hands went around the
Baserite's throat. "Must I kill you?" he snarled, "or will you give me
the key?"

There was no fear in Mertaan's expression but now, under pressure of
Mike's steel fingers, it changed. He appeared to be listening for his
own death.

But not for his death. He tore frantically at Mike's fists and got a
few words past them. "Listen--listen, man! Can't you hear them? The
ships are coming over! The time is now!"

Mike could not understand the words but the meaning got through to him
as a high whining sound transcended the roar of the prisoners. And
Mike realized the roar had not been caused by the priest's unveiling
of Doree's beautiful body, but by the whine from above. The prisoners
knew that the moment had come and they were already pouring from the
cells.

Mike sprang to his feet and lifted the Baserite. The latter snatched
the key from his jacket and unlocked the front cell-gate. Mike went
through first to find himself packed into a plunging, screaming mob.

Here and there he spotted a Baserite frantically trying to establish
some sort of order in the ranks of the prisoners. But they remained a
snarling, bloodthirsty wave of disorganized vengeance. Mike tore his
way savagely through the pack with Nicko and M'Landa close behind him.

"We've got to get down first!" he yelled. "She'll be killed in the
rush!" Even now, below them, the panicked priests were knocking each
other down in their rush for the exits.

Nicko pushed forward. "Let me go first! I'll make way!"

And he did. He flexed his scales until each one stood out from his
ugly body like a razor-edged knife. Then he charged the mob. Blood
splashed until Nicko was a great red smear. Those he hit screamed in
pain and fell back, leaving an avenue down which the three raced.

They came to a stairway and as they tumbled into the pit, Mike looked
swiftly over his shoulder. He was thinking of Mertaan's weapon. But it
was not available. Mertaan had been lost in the mob of screaming
prisoners.

Mike snatched up an odd-looking instrument from a table he passed. He
knew nothing of its original use but it would make an excellent club.
He baptized it by catching a fleeing, terrified priest and splitting
his skull with one blow. This brought him within a few steps of where
Doree lay. She had been knocked to the floor as the desperate priests
sought to escape the wrath of their prisoners.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike's eyes were only for her. He did not see a guard nearby who
turned suddenly and charged him with the flat ugly sword gripped tight
in his fist. Mike knelt down to lift Doree. The sword plunged down.
But instead of going into Mike's back, it was driven deep into the
breast of M'Landa who had hurled himself forward.

Nicko, with a curse bellowed in some obscure dialect, leaped forward
and took the guard into his hands. He lifted the guard and held him
aloft with one hand. With the other he tore the man's throat out and
hurled him dying and bloody across the pit.

The whole building trembled at that moment, obviously from a bomb
hurled off a Baserite ship. But Mike and Nicko were scarcely aware of
this new thunder. Mike had set Doree on her feet and was now holding
the fallen H'Lorkan warrior in his arms. Gently he withdrew the sword.
There was a lump in his throat. He said, "Thanks, friend. You'll never
be forgotten. I will always remember."

M'Landa smiled. He spoke and Nicko interpreted. "This is a fine worthy
death. I could ask for no more. I die pleasantly, in the hope that the
Ptomenites are brought down forever."

Then he was dead and there was no time to mourn him. "Back upstairs,"
Mike said. "Your father is in a cell there. We've got to get him and
then find a way out of here and to the ship--if we aren't too late.
I've got a hunch McKee and Talbott will be heading in the same
direction."

Nicko had picked up Doree's robe. He threw it over her shoulders and
he and Mike formed a cordon in front and in back of the girl, Nicko
going first. They headed for a stairway while all about them bloody
slaughter was taking place.

The priests had found the exit doors mysteriously locked and what few
guards were in the pit proved to be helpless against the outraged
horde from above. The priests and the guards were being torn to pieces
as though by the fangs of maddened dogs. The screams of terror and
agony were a crescendo drowning the whine of the ships overhead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Professor Brandon was crouching in the far corner of the cell. A man
of peace, this place of blood and confusion was beyond his conception.
He was in a daze, his mind having thrown up a buffer against horror.

Doree's arms went around him but Mike pushed her back almost roughly.
"There is no time," he said. "We've got to get out of here." He picked
the frail Brandon up in his arms. "You take the lead, Nicko. Take my
club. It's up to you to cut a path through."

They left the cell and went out onto the balcony and discovered that
the frantic priests had at last broken through the locked doors of
their prison-pit. The ones remaining alive had fled the place with the
prisoners on their heels.

Sounds from beyond indicated that some of the frenzied prisoners had
abandoned the chase and were now stalking through the building,
killing and looting.

"Out this way," Mike directed, indicating an open doorway. "This is
the side toward the blast field."

"The passage is empty," Nicko said. "Come on."

"Watch yourself!" Mike snapped.

And it was well that Nicko did because halfway down the passage, three
of the blood-crazed prisoners leaped on him from a side passage. One
brought a club down viciously, aimed by sheer chance at the base of
Nicko's skull, the one vulnerable spot on his body. Nicko avoided the
blow and smashed the prisoner's head.

The other two landed astride Nicko. It was like jumping into a nest of
sharp knives. Ripped, bloody, screaming, they staggered away and fled.

No one else challenged the right of way and Nicko led the party out
into the night. Overhead, the sky was bright with battle and here and
there about the area, there were sharp skirmishes, evidently between
Baserite and Ptomenite troops. There was no way to tell which way the
battle swayed.

"Straight ahead," Mike ordered. "Skirt the wall of that building."

They reached the field, ran across the last open area and faded in
among the ships. Mike smiled grimly as he saw the dark, unlighted
outline of the Terran space craft. They had beaten McKee and Talbott!
Perhaps the two scoundrels had been slain. "Up the ramp, quick!" Mike
directed.

       *       *       *       *       *

But McKee and Talbott had not been killed. Nor had Mike beaten them to
the ship. He had preceded Nicko up the ramp and as he came to the
hatch, the lights of the ship flashed on and Talbott stepped forth
holding a Terran pistol. Beyond him, inside, stood McKee and the
Princess Katal'halee.

"I told you all we had to do was wait here--that they would show up,"
Talbott said.

McKee pushed forward, a somewhat mystified expression on his face.
"Sure, but I still can't figure how you convinced this Katal babe
they're responsible for the uprising."

Talbott's smile was one of grim satisfaction. "I have persuasive
ways," he said. "I'll back them down the ramp and she can pronounce
sentence and I'll execute them."

"Why stall?" McKee asked. "Kill all five of them and let's get out of
here. About time we started thinking of our own skins."

"I'm taking the Princess with us, you idiot!"

"You're the idiot!" McKee snapped. "Not letting well enough alone!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The proud Ptomenite Princess pushed forward, her cold eyes on Mike and
he realized of course, why the two Terran schemers could talk so
freely. Katal'halee could not understand a word they said.

Talbott motioned with the gun and Mike backed slowly down the ramp. He
was still holding Professor Brandon in his arms, the old man's eyes
blank and uncomprehending.

"That'll do," Talbott said. He stepped aside and the Princess pointed
a contemptuous finger at the group. She spoke sharply and Mike looked
swiftly at Nicko.

"It's a death sentence," Nicko said. "She's accusing us of everything
but stopping up the royal sink."

The Princess now stepped aside and motioned imperiously to Talbott. He
raised his gun.

But a new voice barked sharply. A fine needle of crystalline ray shot
out of the darkness and melted the gun in Talbott's hand. Talbott
jerked his seared member back with a squall of pain.

Mertaan stepped into the circle of light. He looked at Mike. "I had
reason to follow you," he said and Nicko quickly interpreted.

"But it can wait a few moments." He turned to the Princess Katal'halee
and a hatred built up over generations flashed between them. Yet,
their eyes seemed also to mirror a mutual respect. Mertaan said, "You
are wrong about your betrayers. It was these two who made the
arrangements--contacted our allies within your city. The tall one is
very good at getting his points over with gestures and pictures."

Evidently, on this planet, even enemies did not lie to each other.
Katal'halee's eyes turned on the pair with a venom that sent every
drop of blood from their faces. "What did they ask in return?"

"Only seats of power in the city after we conquered it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nicko was translating for Mike and the latter whistled softly. "So
that was the idea. The jewels in the ship were only an ace in the
hole."

"But they must figure the battle goes bad for the Baserites," Nicko
said. "They planned to take off."

"The last minute," Mertaan told Katal'halee, "your fine friends turned
milk-white. They had no stomach for the battle they helped arrange."

"A truce between us, Baserite," the Princess said. "Give me these two
and a gun with which to march them off into the darkness. You and I
can settle accounts later."

Mike was astounded when, without hesitation, Mertaan took another
weapon from his person and handed it to the Princess. Mike's flesh
crawled as he stood rigid, expecting a blast from the royal Ptomenite
that would wipe them all out. He wondered at Mertaan's gullibility.

But evidently the word of these fierce people could be taken at face
value. The Princess ignored all but McKee and Talbott. She pointed the
gun at them and motioned. Now they understood what had transpired.
Sweat streamed from their faces.

"No!--please, no!" Talbott screamed. "He lies! He tells you lies!"
They both fell to their knees.

Mertaan smiled coldly at them. "Where are your pictures and persuasive
manners now, scum!" He kicked them cruelly to their feet and they
staggered off into the darkness before Katal'halee's weapon, still
pleading for mercy.

Mertaan appeared to forget about them. He turned to Mike. "Into your
ship. Quick! There is not too much time."

"You're helping us to make our escape?"

"I have a reason. Hurry."

They went up the ramp and inside. Mertaan stopped just outside the
hatch and Mike turned. The Baserite said, "I know not from whence you
came, stranger, but I ask that you go back to your world, wherever it
is. Tell your people of us and plead our cause. Tell of the
generations of cruelty on this planet and bring help for the
oppressed. This I ask of you."

"But this uprising--your attack--"

Mertaan shook his head. "It does not go well. We will fight to the
death as my people have fought before but I fear the result. The
Ptomenites are powerful."

"Thanks." Mike held out his hand.

The Baserite took it, a little clumsily and smiled a farewell to Nicko
who was peering around Mike, interpreting. "Go with your gods," the
Baserite said. Then he turned and hurried back to the carnage and the
bloodshed....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Father is resting," Doree said. "I'm sure he'll be all right in a
little while. The treatment he received was a shock."

"It would have shaken a far stronger man. He'll be all right when he
gets back to Terra and they honor him for this discovery."

The ship rocketed smoothly through space. Doree slipped into Mike's
arms. "He found what he wanted. So did I." Mike kissed her.

A while later she asked, "Do you think the Baserites won?"

Mike stared out through the port, his eyes sad. "Somehow I don't think
so. We can only hope. But soon a few thousand ships will appear in
their skies. Their doors will be opened to all the universe and
tyranny will not survive."

"Then we'll go back," Doree said.

"Then we'll go back."

THE END

       *       *       *       *       *







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Before Egypt, by E. K. Jarvis

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEFORE EGYPT ***

***** This file should be named 30932.txt or 30932.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/0/9/3/30932/

Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
