The Project Gutenberg EBook of Generals Help Themselves, by M. C. Pease

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Generals Help Themselves

Author: M. C. Pease

Release Date: March 17, 2010 [EBook #31680]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GENERALS HELP THEMSELVES ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: _The fleet came in at four o'clock._]


    _With no one to help him, it seemed the General was lost. But the
    enemy was soon to discover that--_

                    GENERALS HELP THEMSELVES

                         By M. C. Pease


"Did it go well?" the aide asked.

The admiral, affectionately known as the Old Man, did not reply until
he'd closed the door, crossed the room, and dropped into the chair at
his desk. Then he said:

"Go well? It did not go at all. Every blasted one of them, from the
President on down, can think of nothing but the way the Combine over-ran
Venus. When I mention P-boats, they shout that the Venusians depended on
P-boats, too, and got smashed by the Combine's dreadnoughts in one
battle. 'You can't argue with it, man,' they tell me. And they won't
listen."

"But the Venusians fought their P-ships idiotically," the aide
complained. "It was just plain silly to let small, light, fast ships
slug it out with dreadnoughts. If they had used Plan K--"

The Old Man snorted.

"Are you trying to convince me? I've staked my whole reputation on Plan
K. They wouldn't give me the money to build a balanced space-fleet, even
when the fleets of the Combine of Jupiterian Satellite States were
staring them in the face. So, I took what I could get and poured it into
P-boats. I threw all our engineering and scientific staff into making
them faster and more maneuverable than anyone ever thought a space-ship
could be. I got them to build me electronic computers that could direct
that speed. And, two years ago, every cent I could lay my hands on went
to install the computers on all our ships."

"I remember," the aide said.

"But, now the chips are down, the people have funked out on me. I am one
of the most hated men in the Federation. They say I destroyed their
Navy. And, we are not going to get a chance to try Plan K. They decided,
today, to accept the Combine's offer to send envoys in a month to
discuss possible revision of the Treaty of Porran. When I left, they
were wondering if there was any chance of getting out for less than Base
Q."

"But, good lord, sir, Base Q supplies nine tenths of all our power. The
Combine will have a strangle hold on us, if they get that."

"Quite. But the people will give it to them, rather than fight. And the
President will sign."

"Surely, sir, the people are not all cowards?"

"No. If they had time to think, they would fight. That's why the Combine
is striking now. The people are panicky. Hysterical. The collapse of
Venus was so sudden, and the disaster to their P-boats so complete.
They've just lost hope. Most people would rather live under a dictator
than die to no purpose. They've just lost hope."

The pounding of the Old Man's fist measured his words and the depth of
his anger.

"If we could only make them hope. Somehow. Anyhow."

Suddenly, his clenched fist stopped in mid-air. He frowned. Slowly, his
hand opened. The frown relaxed and a smile replaced it.

"Maybe we can, at that. Maybe we can." He leaned back with his eyes half
closed. His aide knew better than to interrupt him. Ten minutes later,
he opened his eyes.

"Make arrangements to have Commander Morgan take command of Base Q as
soon as possible. Within two days at the outside." His manner was curt
and clipped. "And bring him here to me before he leaves."

"Yes, sir. But may I say, sir, I do not understand?"

"You're not supposed to."

"Yes, sir."

The aide was a competent man. Orders were written that afternoon, in
complete disregard of normal red-tape. Base Q was advised of the
imminent shift. Commander Stanley Morgan boarded a jet plane on the
Australian desert that night. The next morning, he was shown into the
Old Man's office.

"Commander," the Old Man said after the preliminaries were taken care
of, "as you are well aware, you have been in considerable disgrace,
recently, for getting too close to the Venusian-Combine war, in defiance
of orders. It has been felt, in certain quarters, that you might have
caused a serious international crisis."

       *       *       *       *       *

The junior officer started to speak, but the admiral waved him to
silence.

"You could, if you like, point out that the crisis has come, anyhow. As
a matter of fact, I never felt that that phase of your action was too
important. I did, however, deplore your disregard of orders--and still
do." He paused a moment, while his steel gray eyes studied the younger
man. "You are about to receive new orders. It is absolutely imperative
that these orders be obeyed explicitly." His pointing finger punctuated
his words with slow emphasis.

"These orders place you in command of Base Q. The Treaty of Porran,
among other things, designates the asteroid Quanlik, or Base Q, as being
the territory solely of the Federation and suitable for the
establishment of a delta-level energy converter. Because this converter
is the prime source of gamma-level, degenerate matter which is used as
the fuel for nearly all our power generators, Base Q is recognized as a
prime defense area of the Federation. A sphere, one hundred thousand
miles radius about Quanlik, was designated by the treaty as a primary
zone. Any ship or ships entering this zone may be ordered to leave
within one hour. Upon failure to comply, our military forces may take
such action as they deem necessary. A sphere, twenty thousand miles
radius, is designated as the secondary zone. Assuming the prior warning
has been given upon their entrance into the primary zone, full action
may be taken against any ship entering this without delay or further
warning.

"Standing orders with regard to Base Q are that any ship entering the
primary zone shall be warned immediately. Upon failure to comply, after
the one hour period, full action shall be taken with the forces
stationed on Quanlik. Any ship entering the secondary zone shall be
brought to action as soon as possible without warning.

"Your orders direct you to assume command of Base Q and to comply with
existing standing orders regarding the maintenance of its security until
and unless advised of a change in the standing orders or the Treaty of
Porran." The Old Man paused for effect. "Any questions?"

"Yes, sir," the younger man said. "I am wondering if I should inquire
what events you are anticipating. Would it be wise for me to ask?"

"No!" The monosyllable cracked out like a shot.

"No further questions, sir."

"I have one. While you were in Australia, I presume you kept well
informed on recent developments of Plan K?"

"Yes, sir. The school I commanded taught advanced theory of Plan K."

"Very good. You will proceed immediately to Base Q. As a final word I
will repeat the absolute necessity of obeying your orders _to the
letter_! Good luck."

The young man saluted, collected his orders and walked out. Two hours
later, he was in space.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commander Morgan's office was perched in a plastic bubble high on a crag
overlooking Base Q. Directly below it lay a few of the multitude of
locks that provided haven for the protecting fleet of P-ships. A vast
array of domes and other geometrical shapes bore witness to the hive of
machine-shops, storerooms, offices, et al, that kept the fleet
operating. And on the far horizon towered the mighty structure of the
delta-level converter, the reason for the existence of Base Q. A quarter
of a million tons of high-test steel and special alloys, machined to
tolerances of less than a thousandth of an inch, with another hundred
thousand tons of control equipment, it was yet delicate enough so that
it could not have functioned in the gravity field of any planet. This
asteroid, small as it was, was barely below the permissible limit.

The Commander sat at his desk, watching the latest flashes in the
news-caster. They were not good. At this very moment, the President of
the Federation was in conference with the representatives of the
Combine, discussing the wording of the protocol that would probably be
signed in a few hours. And no word--no hint--that anyone in the
Federation outside the services was willing to dare anything at all. A
red light flashed on his desk. A buzzer sounded a strident call. He
flipped a switch. "Commander talking."

"Far-Search talking. Report contact with large group of ships, probably
dreadnought warships. Range, two one oh. Bearing, four oh dash one nine.
Speed, seven five. Course, approaching. That is all."

"Keep me advised any change or further details. Advise when contact
range is one five oh."

"Wilco."

The Commander pressed a button on his desk. In response, his staff
quickly assembled to brief him on the immediate status of Base Q as a
war-making machine. As a matter of routine, it was always kept fully
ready. His staff merely confirmed this for him.

Seventy-five thousand miles out in space, the Radars of the Far-Search
net swept their paths. Men labored over their plotting tables, noting
the information the radar echoes brought back; slowly piecing together
the picture. Tight communication beams relayed the data back to the base
as fast as it was obtained.

About an hour later, the red light flashed again. The assembled staff
fell quiet as the Commander flipped the switch, again. "Commander
talking."

"Far-Search talking. Contact previously reported now range one five oh.
Bearing, four one dash one seven. Course, approaching. Speed, six nine.
Estimated twenty-three ships, dreadnought type, plus small ship screen.
Battle formation. That is all."

"Advise at range one one oh."

"Wilco."

The Commander turned to his staff. "Sound a general alert." His words
were clipped and clear. He flipped a second switch on his desk. "Radio,
this is the Commander. Get me a direct beam to the Chief of Staff.
Highest urgency. Scramble with sequence Charlie."

His office had emptied by now, with officers running to their posts as
the siren of the general alert wailed through the corridors. As its
urgent call died off, a green light showed on his desk, indicating
contact with earth. "Morgan, Commander, Base Q, requesting direct line
to Chief of Staff. Highest urgency."

"Go ahead, Morgan." The Old Man's voice sounded peculiar after passing
through the scrambling and unscrambling machines that twisted the sounds
into queer pieces and distributed them among several frequencies and
methods of modulation. But, even so, it had a note of strain in it that
was not artificial.

"Sir, when you gave me my orders, here, you directed me to obey them _to
the letter_, without question or cavil. Is that right, sir?"

"Yes, it is." There was a threat in the Old Man's voice.

"Then, sir, would you tell me if there has been any change in those
orders since my arrival? Aside from administrative details, of course?"

"No. Absolutely not."

"Very good, sir. Sorry to have bothered you."

"Not at all. Quite right. Good luck. Signing out."

Morgan thought the Old Man sounded relieved at the end. And he could not
be quite sure, but he thought he heard the Admiral mutter "And good
hunting," as the connection broke.

He summoned his aide to take over the office while he went down to the
center of the asteroid where I.C., the information center, was located,
where he would assume direct command of the base.

       *       *       *       *       *

As he entered I.C., the Ships Supply Officer reported all ships fully
loaded and fueled with gamma-matter, ready for flight. The Missile
Officer reported all ships equipped with war-head missiles. The Lock
Officer reported all locks manned and ready. Base Q was ready.

As he climbed to his chair over the plotting tank, he noted with
satisfaction the controlled tautness of the men's faces. They too, were
ready.

As the glowing points of yellow light that represented the enemy fleet
crossed the dimly lit sphere in the tank that indicated the one hundred
thousand mile radius marking the edge of the primary zone, he took a
microphone from a man waiting, nearby.

"Base Q to unknown fleet. I have you bearing four one dash one seven.
Range one oh oh. Identify yourself. Identify yourself. Over." His words
were spaced out with painful clarity. A hush had fallen over I.C.

The loud-speaker on the wall came to life with a squawk, after a few
seconds.

"Fleet Four to Base Q. This is Fleet Four, operating under orders from
the Jupiterian Combine. Over."

"Base Q to Fleet Four. According to the Treaty of Porran, space within a
radius of one hundred thousand miles of Base Q has been designated a
primary defense zone of the Federation. I therefore order you to leave
this zone within one hour. Failure to comply will make you liable to
full action on our part. I have the time, now, as one three four seven.
You have until one four four seven to comply. I further warn you that an
approach within twenty thousand miles will make you liable to immediate
action, regardless of time. Over."

The men in the room stared, open-mouthed. All had dreamed of hearing
these words spoken in these tones to the Combine. A cheer might have
been given, had it not been for discipline.

In a few seconds, the loud-speaker squawked again. "Fleet Four to Base
Q. Our orders are to assume a position at twenty-five thousand miles
radius pending renegotiation of the Treaty of Porran. I suggest you
contact your headquarters before doing anything rash. Over."

The Commander sat with a smile on his lips. Quietly he handed the
microphone back to the radioman. In a minute, the loud-speaker squawked,
again. "Fleet Four to Base Q. Did you receive my last transmission?
Acknowledge, please. Over."

The radioman looked at the Commander, questioningly, but he only shook
his head.

"Can't you turn that damn squawk-box off? It's distracting."

As the minutes crept by, the bright dots in the tank moved closer. The
Commander took the Public Address microphone.

"Attention, all personnel, this is the Commander talking. The Fourth
Fleet of the Combine entered the Zone twenty minutes ago. They were
given an ultimatum but are showing no indication of compliance.
Therefore, we are going to blast hell out of them." The echoes from his
voice rolled back from speakers all over the base. "The people at home
do not think we can do it. I know we can. I have not asked their
permission. It is not needed. My orders are explicit and fully cover the
situation. My orders to you are equally explicit. Go out there and teach
the bloody bastards a lesson." He turned back to the men in I.C.
"Scramble flights one, two, three, and four. Others to follow at
intervals of five minutes until all are in space. Flight plan King
Baker. Initial Time, one four five oh. Execute."

The talkers took up the chant.

"Flight one. Flight one. Scramble. Scramble. Execute."

"Flight two ..."

Etc.

In the tank, green points of light moved out. The first four came into
position and stopped in the four quadrants of the circle of which the
center was the point at which the enemy would be at Initial Time. The
following flights moved out to other points on the circle.

Time seemed to stop. In I.C., the Flight Directors gave the orders that
moved their flights into position and briefed them on future tactics in
quiet voices. The electronic computers and other devices moved silently.
The clock made no noise as its hands moved towards the final moment.

The Commander moved some dials under his hands. He pushed a button and a
red light showed on the lead dreadnought of the enemy column.

"This is the initial target." The designation was relayed to the
flights.

The second hand of the clock was making its final sweep. All voices
quieted. The Commander raised his fist. As the clock's hand came to the
top, his fist slashed down.

"Execute!" The battle was on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Flight Commander Dennis, Flight One, heard the final word as he sat in
the small bubble on top of the dense package of machinery that was a
P-ship. Swiftly, his hands closed switches. The course had already been
chosen and fed into the automatic computers under him. He merely gave
the signal to execute. In response, the ship seemed to pick itself up
and hurl itself down the radius of the circle to the waiting enemy
fleet.

He could not see them, but he knew that, behind him, lay the other nine
ships of the flight, in column, spaced so close that an error in
calculation of but a few millionths of a second would have caused
disaster. But the automatic and inconceivably fast and accurate
calculators in the ships, tied together by tight communication beams,
held them there in safety.

As he came within range of possible enemy action, Dennis pressed another
button, and the Random Computer took command. Operated by the noise a
vacuum tube generates because electrons are discrete particles, it gave
random orders, weighted only by a preference to bring the ship's course
back to the remembered target.

The column behind obeyed these same orders. The whole flight seemed to
jitter across space, moving at random but coming back to a reasonably
good course towards the target, utterly confusing any enemy fire-control
computers.

To the men in the ships, one to each, it seemed as if their very nerve
cells must jar apart. They felt themselves incapable of coherent action,
or, even, thought. But they did not need coherency. Their function was
done until the ship was out of danger, when a new formation would be
made, a new target designated, and a new order to execute given.

Because the electronic computers took care of the attack. They had to.
No human could react as fast as was needed. Out from the enemy ships
reached fingers of pure delta-field, reaching for gamma-matter. The
touch of a finger meant death in a fiery inferno as the gamma-matter
that fueled the ship and formed the war-heads of their lethal eggs would
release its total energy. There was only one defense. The delta-field
could be propagated only in a narrow beam, and at a rate much slower
than the speed of light. By keeping the enemy computers confused, they
kept those beams wandering aimlessly through space, always where the
little ships might have been, but were not. Unless their luck ran out.

Flight One kept moving in, with constantly increasing speed, except for
random variations. Once through the outer screen of small ships, a relay
closed and the link was broken between the ships of the column. Each
then moved in independent manner. The designated target was an area to
the computers, rather than a ship. Radar beams reached out to find
specific targets. As they found them and moved close, the random
computer switched off for a small moment of time, while the missiles
were dispatched on a true bearing. And then the ships moved on, leaving
their eggs behind them.

The eggs moved in with fantastic acceleration to their targets. Half
their energy went into that acceleration, to get them there before the
delta beams could find them. The other half was given up in incandescent
heat when they found their targets. Becoming pinpoints of pure star
matter, they seared their way into the enemy vitals. But, even with
their fantastically concentrated energy, it was not enough. For the
dreadnoughts were armored with densely degenerate matter, impervious to
any but a direct hit, and compartmented to require many hits.

The flights moved in and passed on through. And other flights came in.
And others followed them. The first flights halted, found each other,
turned, and drove in again. Pass and repass. A myriad of blue-white
flashes gave measure of the struggle.

       *       *       *       *       *

On Base Q, in the I.C. room, the Commander watched the tank. Curt orders
designated new target areas as the enemy fleet broke up under the
whiplash. Slowly, one by one, the points of light that marked the enemy
vanished, leaving only the void.

Finally, as must any fleet that faces annihilation, they turned and
fled. The battle was over. All that remained was to give the orders to
bring the flights home. And that was soon done.

The Commander got up. He stretched. He was tired. He glanced at the
clock. Two hours and forty minutes. Very quick, indeed, as space battles
usually went. But, then, he thought grimly, this had been the first
battle ever fought under the whiplash of Plan K.

But, now, there was a report to be made. And he did not know how to do
it. As he walked back wearily to his office, he tried out phrases in his
mind. None seemed to fit.

His aide was bending over the facsimile machine as he came in. "Priority
orders from the General Staff, just coming in, sir."

The Commander looked at the machine. "General Staff to Commander, Base
Q, Urgent, Immediate Action," he read. "You are hereby advised that a
protocol has been signed at Washington, D.C., with representatives of
the Combine, revising the Treaty of Porran to the extent that Base Q
shall be jointly administered by yourself and the Commander, Fourth
Fleet, Jupiterian Combine, until such time as its further dispensation
shall have been agreed. You will, therefore, admit said Fleet upon
demand, permitting it to take up such stations as it may desire, in
either zone, or to land, in whole or in part, and to disembark such of
its personnel as its commanding officer may direct. You will make
arrangements with its commanding officer for the joint administration of
the base. You will be held responsible for the smooth operation and
successful accomplishment of this undertaking. These orders are
effective immediately."

Commander Morgan smiled.

"Send this reply immediately," he said to his aide. "Open code.
Commander, Base Q, to General Staff, Highest urgency. Acknowledge
receipt recent orders regarding protocol revising Treaty of Porran.
Regret unable to comply. Due to recent argument over interpretation of
Treaty of Porran, Fourth Fleet, Combine, no longer exists. Request
further orders."

He laughed.

On earth, the officer who took the message gaped at it. Seizing a
telephone, he dictated it to the Old Man's aide. But when the Old Man
saw it, he only smiled, coldly.

And his smile was bleak and cold, too, when he laid it before the
President and the Cabinet an hour later. Shortly afterwards, when the
President broadcast it to the people, they sat, stunned. It was not
until the next day that they finally read its significance and started
celebrating. But the Old Man had ceased smiling by that time, and was
planning possible future battles.

       *       *       *       *       *

A month later, Morgan sat again in the Old Man's office. Having
presented his report and swallowed the unpleasant pill that, as he was
now a hero, there were speeches to make and banquets to be bored at, he
was talking informally.

"What I can't understand, sir, is why they came in. They only had to
wait a couple of hours and the whole kit and caboodle would have been
dumped in their laps. Yet they come barging in and give us exactly the
opening we want. I don't get it."

"That _is_ an interesting question," the Old Man replied with a shadow
of a twinkle. "You might almost think they had intercepted an order I
sent to our Intelligence Officer, on Q, to sabotage the Converter if the
protocol was signed."

The Commander jumped. "Was that order given, sir?"

"Yes, it was. But it was countermanded an hour later. Different channel,
however. I remembered they had broken the code of the first channel."

He paused a moment. "That illustrates a good point to remember, Morgan.
You intercept enemy messages and break their code. A very useful trick.
Also very dangerous, if the enemy discovers you have broken it, and you
don't know that he knows. Very dangerous, indeed."

The young man laughed. The older one smiled, bleakly.

As Morgan looked out the window, he saw the public news-casters spelling
out the full mobilization of the Federation. A glow filled his heart as
he realized the people were now willing, if they had to, to fight to
defend their freedom.


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _If: Worlds of Science Fiction_
    November 1952. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
    the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling
    and typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Generals Help Themselves, by M. C. Pease

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GENERALS HELP THEMSELVES ***

***** This file should be named 31680.txt or 31680.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/6/8/31680/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
