The Project Gutenberg EBook of Student Body, by Floyd L. Wallace

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Student Body

Author: Floyd L. Wallace

Illustrator: William Ashman

Release Date: March 29, 2010 [EBook #31815]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STUDENT BODY ***




Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Robert Cicconetti, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from the March 1953 issue of Galaxy. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this
    publication was renewed.


                             STUDENT BODY


                           By F. L. WALLACE


                        Illustrated by ASHMAN


     _When a really infallible scientific bureau makes a
      drastically serious error, the data must be wrong ... but
      wrong in what way?_

       *       *       *       *       *




The first morning that they were fully committed to the planet, the
executive officer stepped out of the ship. It was not quite dawn.
Executive Hafner squinted in the early light; his eyes opened wider,
and he promptly went back inside. Three minutes later, he reappeared
with the biologist in tow.

"Last night you said there was nothing dangerous," said the executive.
"Do you still think it's so?"

Dano Marin stared. "I do." What his voice lacked in conviction, it
made up in embarrassment. He laughed uncertainly.

"This is no laughing matter. I'll talk to you later."

The biologist stood by the ship and watched as the executive walked to
the row of sleeping colonists.

"Mrs. Athyl," said the executive as he stopped beside the sleeping
figure.

She yawned, rubbed her eyes, rolled over, and stood up. The covering
that should have been there, however, wasn't. Neither was the garment
she had on when she had gone to sleep. She assumed the conventional
position of a woman who is astonished to find herself unclad without
her knowledge or consent.

[Illustration]

"It's all right, Mrs. Athyl. I'm not a voyeur myself. Still, I think
you should get some clothing on." Most of the colonists were awake
now. Executive Hafner turned to them. "If you haven't any suitable
clothing in the ship, the commissary will issue you some. Explanations
will be given later."

The colonists scattered. There was no compulsive modesty among them,
for it couldn't have survived a year and a half in crowded spaceships.
Nevertheless, it was a shock to awaken with no clothing on and not
know who or what had removed it during the night. It was surprise more
than anything else that disconcerted them.

On his way back to the spaceship, Executive Hafner paused. "Any ideas
about it?"

Dano Marin shrugged. "How could I have? The planet is as new to me as
it is to you."

"Sure. But you're the biologist."

As the only scientist in a crew of rough-and-ready colonists and
builders, Marin was going to be called on to answer a lot of questions
that weren't in his field.

"Nocturnal insects, most likely," he suggested. That was pretty weak,
though he knew that in ancient times locusts had stripped fields in a
matter of hours. Could they do the same with the clothing of humans
and not awaken them? "I'll look into the matter. As soon as I find
anything, I'll let you know."

"Good." Hafner nodded and went into the spaceship.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dano Marin walked to the grove in which the colonists had been
sleeping. It had been a mistake to let them bed down there, but at the
time the request had been made, there had seemed no reason not to
grant it. After eighteen months in crowded ships everyone naturally
wanted fresh air and the rustle of leaves overhead.

Marin looked out through the grove. It was empty now; the colonists,
both men and women, had disappeared inside the ship, dressing,
probably.

The trees were not tall and the leaves were dark bottle-green.
Occasional huge white flowers caught sunlight that made them seem
larger than they were. It wasn't Earth and therefore the trees
couldn't be magnolias. But they reminded Marin of magnolia trees and
thereafter he always thought of them as that.

The problem of the missing clothing was ironic. Biological Survey
never made a mistake--yet obviously they had. They listed the planet
as the most suitable for Man of any so far discovered. Few insects, no
dangerous animals, a most equitable climate. They had named it Glade
because that was the word which fitted best. The whole land mass
seemed to be one vast and pleasant meadow.

Evidently there were things about the planet that Biological Survey
had missed.

Marin dropped to his knees and began to look for clues. If insects had
been responsible, there ought to be a few dead ones, crushed, perhaps,
as the colonists rolled over in their sleep. There were no insects,
either live or dead.

He stood up in disappointment and walked slowly through the grove. It
might be the trees. At night they could exude a vapor which was
capable of dissolving the material from which the clothing had been
made. Far-fetched, but not impossible. He crumbled a leaf in his hand
and rubbed it against his sleeve. A pungent smell, but nothing
happened. That didn't disprove the theory, of course.

He looked out through the trees at the blue sun. It was bigger than
Sol, but farther away. At Glade, it was about equal to the Sun on
Earth.

He almost missed the bright eyes that regarded him from the
underbrush. Almost, but didn't--the domain of biology begins at the
edge of the atmosphere; it includes the brush and the small creatures
that live in it.

He swooped down on it. The creature fled squealing. He ran it down in
the grass outside the grove. It collapsed into quaking flesh as he
picked it up. He talked to it gently and the terror subsided.

It nibbled contentedly on his jacket as he carried it back to the
ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

Executive Hafner stared unhappily into the cage. It was an
undistinguished animal, small and something like an undeveloped
rodent. Its fur was sparse and stringy, unglamorous; it would never be
an item in the fur export trade.

"Can we exterminate it?" asked Hafner. "Locally, that is."

"Hardly. It's ecologically basic."

[Illustration]

The executive looked blank. Dano Marin added the explanation: "You
know how Biological Control works. As soon as a planet has been
discovered that looks suitable, they send out a survey ship loaded
with equipment. The ship flies low over a good part of the planet and
the instruments in the ship record the neural currents of the animals
below. The instruments can distinguish the characteristic neural
patterns of anything that has a brain, including insects.

"Anyway, they have a pretty good idea of the kinds of animals on the
planet and their relative distribution. Naturally, the survey party
takes a few specimens. They have to in order to correlate the pattern
with the actual animal, otherwise the neural pattern would be merely a
meaningless squiggle on a microfilm.

"The survey shows that this animal is one of only four species of
mammals on the planet. It is also the most numerous."

Hafner grunted. "So if we kill them off here, others will swarm in
from surrounding areas?"

"That's about it. There are probably millions of them on this
peninsula. Of course, if you want to put a barrier across the narrow
connection to the mainland, you might be able to wipe them out
locally."

The executive scowled. A barrier was possible, but it would involve
more work than he cared to expend.

"What do they eat?" he asked truculently.

"A little bit of everything, apparently. Insects, fruits, berries,
nuts, succulents, and grain." Dano Marin smiled. "I guess it could be
called an omnivore--now that our clothing is handy, it eats that,
too."

Hafner didn't smile. "I thought our clothing was supposed to be
verminproof."

Marin shrugged. "It is, on twenty-seven planets. On the twenty-eighth,
we meet up with a little fella that has better digestive fluids,
that's all."

Hafner looked pained. "Are they likely to bother the crops we plant?"

"Offhand, I would say they aren't. But then I would have said the same
about our clothing."

Hafner made up his mind. "All right. You worry about the crops. Find
some way to keep them out of the fields. Meanwhile, everyone sleeps in
the ship until we can build dormitories."

Individual dwelling units would have been more appropriate in the
colony at this stage, thought Marin. But it wasn't for him to decide.
The executive was a man who regarded a schedule as something to be
exceeded.

"The omnivore--" began Marin.

Hafner nodded impatiently. "Work on it," he said, and walked away.

The biologist sighed. The omnivore really was a queer little
creature, but it was by no means the most important thing on Glade.
For instance, why were there so few species of land animals on the
planet? No reptiles, numerous birds, and only four kinds of mammals.

Every comparable planet teemed with a wild variety of life. Glade, in
spite of seemingly ideal conditions, hadn't developed. Why?

He had asked Biological Controls for this assignment because it had
seemed an interesting problem. Now, apparently, he was being pressed
into service as an exterminator.

He reached in the cage and picked up the omnivore. Mammals on Glade
were not unexpected. Parallel development took care of that. Given
roughly the same kind of environment, similar animals would usually
evolve.

In the Late Carboniferous forest on Earth, there had been creatures
like the omnivore, the primitive mammal from which all others had
evolved. On Glade, that kind of evolution just hadn't taken place.
What had kept nature from exploiting its evolutionary potentialities?
There was the real problem, not how to wipe them out.

Marin stuck a needle in the omnivore. It squealed and then relaxed. He
drew out the blood and set it back in the cage. He could learn a lot
about the animal from trying to kill it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The quartermaster was shouting, though his normal voice carried quite
well.

"How do you know it's mice?" the biologist asked him.

"Look," said the quartermaster angrily.

Marin looked. The evidence did indicate mice.

Before he could speak, the quartermaster snapped, "Don't tell me
they're only mice-like creatures. I know that. The question is: how
can I get rid of them?"

"Have you tried poison?"

"Tell me what poison to use and I'll use it."

It wasn't the easiest question to answer. What was poisonous to an
animal he had never seen and knew nothing about? According to
Biological Survey, the animal didn't exist.

It was unexpectedly serious. The colony could live off the land, and
was expected to. But another group of colonists was due in three
years. The colony was supposed to accumulate a surplus of food to feed
the increased numbers. If they couldn't store the food they grew any
better than the concentrates, that surplus was going to be scanty.

Marin went over the warehouse thoroughly. It was the usual early
construction on a colonial world. Not esthetic, it was sturdy enough.
Fused dirt floor, reinforced foot-thick walls, a ceiling slab of the
same. The whole was bound together with a molecular cement that made
it practically airtight. It had no windows; there were two doors.
Certainly it should keep out rodents.

A closer examination revealed an unexpected flaw. The floor was as
hard as glass; no animal could gnaw through it, but, like glass, it
was also brittle. The crew that had built the warehouse had evidently
been in such a hurry to get back to Earth that they hadn't been as
careful as they should have been, for here and there the floor was
thin. Somewhere under the heavy equipment piled on it, the floor had
cracked. There a burrowing animal had means of entry.

Short of building another warehouse, it was too late to do anything
about that. Mice-like animals were inside and had to be controlled
where they were.

The biologist straightened up. "Catch me a few of them alive and I'll
see what I can do."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the morning, a dozen live specimens were delivered to the lab. They
actually did resemble mice.

Their reactions were puzzling. No two of them were affected by the
same poison. A compound that stiffened one in a matter of minutes left
the others hale and hearty, and the poison he had developed to control
the omnivores was completely ineffective.

The depredations in the warehouse went on. Black mice, white ones,
gray and brown, short-tailed and long-eared, or the reverse, they
continued to eat the concentrates and spoil what they didn't eat.

Marin conferred with the executive, outlined the problem as he saw it
and his ideas on what could be done to combat the nuisance.

"But we can't build another warehouse," argued Hafner. "Not until the
atomic generator is set up, at any rate. And then we'll have other
uses for the power." The executive rested his head in his hands. "I
like the other solution better. Build one and see how it works."

"I was thinking of three," said the biologist.

"One," Hafner insisted. "We can't spare the equipment until we know
how it works."

At that he was probably right. They had equipment, as much as three
ships could bring. But the more they brought, the more was expected of
the colony. The net effect was that equipment was always in short
supply.

Marin took the authorization to the engineer. On the way, he privately
revised his specifications upward. If he couldn't get as many as he
wanted, he might as well get a better one.

In two days, the machine was ready.

It was delivered in a small crate to the warehouse. The crate was
opened and the machine leaped out and stood there, poised.

"A cat!" exclaimed the quartermaster, pleased. He stretched out his
hand toward the black fuzzy robot.

"If you've touched anything a mouse may have, get your hand away,"
warned the biologist. "It reacts to smell as well as sight and sound."

Hastily, the quartermaster withdrew his hand. The robot disappeared
silently into the maze of stored material.

In one week, though there were still some mice in the warehouse, they
were no longer a danger.

       *       *       *       *       *

The executive called Marin into his office, a small sturdy building
located in the center of the settlement. The colony was growing,
assuming an aspect of permanency. Hafner sat in his chair and looked
out over that growth with satisfaction.

"A good job on the mouse plague," he said.

The biologist nodded. "Not bad, except there shouldn't be any mice
here. Biological Survey--"

"Forget it," said the exec. "Everybody makes mistakes, even B. S." He
leaned back and looked seriously at the biologist. "I have a job I
need done. Just now I'm short of men. If you have no objections...."

[Illustration]

The exec was always short of men, would be until the planet was
overcrowded, and he would try to find someone to do the work his own
men should have done. Dano Marin was not directly responsible to
Hafner; he was on loan to the expedition from Biological Controls.
Still, it was a good idea to cooperate with the executive. He sighed.

"It's not as bad as you think," said Hafner, interpreting the sound
correctly. He smiled. "We've got the digger together. I want you to
run it."

Since it tied right in with his investigations, Dano Marin looked
relieved and showed it.

"Except for food, we have to import most of our supplies," Hafner
explained. "It's a long haul, and we've got to make use of everything
on the planet we can. We need oil. There are going to be a lot of
wheels turning, and every one of them will have to have oil. In time
we'll set up a synthetic plant, but if we can locate a productive
field now, it's to our advantage."

"You're assuming the geology of Glade is similar to Earth?"

Hafner waggled his hand. "Why not? It's a nicer twin of Earth."

Why not? Because you couldn't always tell from the surface, thought
Marin. It seemed like Earth, but was it? Here was a good chance to
find out the history of Glade.

Hafner stood up. "Any time you're ready, a technician will check you
out on the digger. Let me know before you go."

       *       *       *       *       *

Actually, the digger wasn't a digger. It didn't move or otherwise
displace a gram of dirt or rock. It was a means of looking down below
the surface, to any practical depth. A large crawler, it was big
enough for a man to live in without discomfort for a week.

It carried an outsize ultrasonic generator and a device for directing
the beam into the planet. That was the sending apparatus. The
receiving end began with a large sonic lens which picked up sound
beams reflected from any desired depth, converted it into electrical
energy and thence into an image which was flashed onto a screen.

At the depth of ten miles, the image was fuzzy, though good enough to
distinguish the main features of the strata. At three miles, it was
better. It could pick up the sound reflection of a buried coin and
convert it into a picture on which the date could be seen.

It was to a geologist as a microscope is to a biologist. Being a
biologist, Dano Marin could appreciate the analogy.

He started at the tip of the peninsula and zigzagged across, heading
toward the isthmus. Methodically, he covered the territory, sleeping
at night in the digger. On the morning of the third day, he discovered
oil traces, and by that afternoon he had located the main field.

He should probably have turned back at once, but now that he had found
oil, he investigated more deliberately. Starting at the top, he let
the image range downward below the top strata.

It was the reverse of what it should have been. In the top few feet,
there were plentiful fossil remains, mostly of the four species of
mammals. The squirrel-like creature and the far larger grazing animal
were the forest dwellers. Of the plains animals, there were only two,
in size fitting neatly between the extremes of the forest dwellers.

After the first few feet, which corresponded to approximately twenty
thousand years, he found virtually no fossils. Not until he reached a
depth which he could correlate to the Late Carboniferous age on Earth
did fossils reappear. Then they were of animals appropriate to the
epoch. At that depth and below, the history of Glade was quite similar
to Earth's.

Puzzled, he checked again in a dozen widely scattered localities. The
results were always the same--fossil history for the first twenty
thousand years, then none for roughly a hundred million. Beyond that,
it was easy to trace the thread of biological development.

In that period of approximately one hundred million years, something
unique had happened to Glade. What was it?

On the fifth day his investigations were interrupted by the sound of
the keyed-on radio.

"Marin."

"Yes?" He flipped on the sending switch.

"How soon can you get back?"

He looked at the photo-map. "Three hours. Two if I hurry."

"Make it two. Never mind the oil."

"I've found oil. But what's the matter?"

"You can see it better than I can describe it. We'll discuss it when
you get back."

       *       *       *       *       *

Reluctantly, Marin retracted the instruments into the digger. He
turned it around and, with not too much regard for the terrain, let it
roar. The treads tossed dirt high in the air. Animals fled squealing
from in front of him. If the grove was small enough, he went around
it, otherwise he went through and left matchsticks behind.

He skidded the crawler ponderously to halt near the edge of the
settlement. The center of activity was the warehouse. Pickups wheeled
in and out, transferring supplies to a cleared area outside. He found
Hafner in a corner of the warehouse, talking to the engineer.

Hafner turned around when he came up. "Your mice have grown, Marin."

Marin looked down. The robot cat lay on the floor. He knelt and
examined it. The steel skeleton hadn't broken; it had been bent,
badly. The tough plastic skin had been torn off and, inside, the
delicate mechanism had been chewed into an unrecognizable mass.

Around the cat were rats, twenty or thirty of them, huge by any
standards. The cat had fought; the dead animals were headless or
disemboweled, unbelievably battered. But the robot had been
outnumbered.

Biological Survey had said there weren't any rats on Glade. They had
also said that about mice. What was the key to their error?

[Illustration]

The biologist stood up. "What are you going to do about it?"

"Build another warehouse, two-foot-thick fused dirt floors, monolithic
construction. Transfer all perishables to it."

Marin nodded. That would do it. It would take time, of course, and
power, all they could draw out of the recently set up atomic
generator. All other construction would have to be suspended. No
wonder Hafner was disturbed.

"Why not build more cats?" Marin suggested.

The executive smiled nastily. "You weren't here when we opened the
doors. The warehouse was swarming with rats. How many robot cats would
we need--five, fifteen? I don't know. Anyway the engineer tells me we
have enough parts to build three more cats. The one lying there can't
be salvaged."

It didn't take an engineer to see that, thought Marin.

Hafner continued, "If we need more, we'll have to rob the computer in
the spaceship. I refuse to permit that."

Obviously he would. The spaceship was the only link with Earth until
the next expedition brought more colonists. No exec in his right mind
would permit the ship to be crippled.

But why had Hafner called him back? Merely to keep him informed of the
situation?

       *       *       *       *       *

Hafner seemed to guess his thoughts. "At night we'll floodlight the
supplies we remove from the warehouse. We'll post a guard armed with
decharged rifles until we can move the food into the new warehouse.
That'll take about ten days. Meanwhile, our fast crops are ripening.
It's my guess the rats will turn to them for food. In order to protect
our future food supply, you'll have to activate your animals."

The biologist started. "But it's against regulations to loose any
animal on a planet until a complete investigation of the possible ill
effects is made."

"That takes ten or twenty years. This is an emergency and I'll be
responsible--in writing, if you want."

The biologist was effectively countermanded. Another rabbit-infested
Australia or the planet that the snails took over might be in the
making, but there was nothing he could do about it.

"I hardly think they'll be of any use against rats this size," he
protested.

"You've got hormones. Apply them." The executive turned and began
discussing construction with the engineer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Marin had the dead rats gathered up and placed in the freezer for
further study.

After that, he retired to the laboratory and worked out a course of
treatment for the domesticated animals that the colonists had brought
with them. He gave them the first injections and watched them
carefully until they were safely through the initial shock phase of
growth. As soon as he saw they were going to survive, he bred them.

Next he turned to the rats. Of note was the wide variation in size.
Internally, the same thing was true. They had the usual organs, but
the proportions of each varied greatly, more than is normal. Nor were
their teeth uniform. Some carried huge fangs set in delicate jaws;
others had tiny teeth that didn't match the massive bone structure. As
a species, they were the most scrambled the biologist had ever
encountered.

He turned the microscope on their tissues and tabulated the results.
There was less difference here between individual specimens, but it
was enough to set him pondering. The reproductive cells were
especially baffling.

Late in the day, he felt rather than heard the soundless whoosh of the
construction machinery. He looked out of the laboratory and saw smoke
rolling upward. As soon as the vegetation was charred, the smoke
ceased and heat waves danced into the sky.

They were building on a hill. The little creatures that crept and
crawled in the brush attacked in the most vulnerable spot, the food
supply. There was no brush, not a blade of grass, on the hill when the
colonists finished.

       *       *       *       *       *

Terriers. In the past, they were the hunting dogs of the agricultural
era. What they lacked in size they made up in ferocity toward rodents.
They had earned their keep originally in granaries and fields, and,
for a brief time, they were doing it again on colonial worlds where
conditions were repeated.

The dogs the colonists brought had been terriers. They were still as
fast, still with the same anti-rodent disposition, but they were no
longer small. It had been a difficult job, yet Marin had done it well,
for the dogs had lost none of their skill and speed in growing to the
size of a great dane.

The rats moved in on the fields of fast crops. Fast crops were made to
order for a colonial world. They could be planted, grown, and
harvested in a matter of weeks. After four such plantings, the
fertility of the soil was destroyed, but that meant nothing in the
early years of a colonial planet, for land was plentiful.

The rat tide grew in the fast crops, and the dogs were loosed on the
rats. They ranged through the fields, hunting. A rush, a snap of their
jaws, the shake of a head, and the rat was tossed aside, its back
broken. The dogs went on to the next.

Until they could not see, the dogs prowled and slaughtered. At night
they came in bloody, most of it not their own, and exhausted. Marin
pumped them full of antibiotics, bandaged their wounds, fed them
through their veins, and shot them into sleep. In the morning he
awakened them with an injection of stimulant and sent them tingling
into battle.

It took the rats two days to learn they could not feed during the day.
Not so numerous, they came at night. They climbed on the vines and
nibbled the fruit. They gnawed growing grain and ravaged vegetables.

The next day the colonists set up lights. The dogs were with them,
discouraging the few rats who were still foolish enough to forage
while the sun was overhead.

An hour before dusk, Marin called the dogs in and gave them an
enforced rest. He brought them out of it after dark and took them to
the fields, staggering. The scent of rats revived them; they were as
eager as ever, if not quite so fast.

The rats came from the surrounding meadows, not singly, or in twos and
threes, as they had before; this time they came together. Squealing
and rustling the grass, they moved toward the fields. It was dark, and
though he could not see them, Marin could hear them. He ordered the
great lights turned on in the area of the fields.

The rats stopped under the glare, milling around uneasily. The dogs
quivered and whined. Marin held them back. The rats resumed their
march, and Marin released the dogs.

The dogs charged in to attack, but didn't dare brave the main mass.
They picked off the stragglers and forced the rats into a tighter
formation. After that the rats were virtually unassailable.

The colonists could have burned the bunched-up rats with the right
equipment, but they didn't have it and couldn't get it for years. Even
if they'd had it, the use of such equipment would endanger the crops,
which they had to save if they could. It was up to the dogs.

The rat formation came to the edge of the fields, and broke. They
could face a common enemy and remain united, but in the presence of
food, they forgot that unity and scattered--hunger was the great
divisor. The dogs leaped joyously in pursuit. They hunted down the
starved rodents, one by one, and killed them as they ate.

When daylight came, the rat menace had ended.

The next week the colonists harvested and processed the food for
storage and immediately planted another crop.

[Illustration]

Marin sat in the lab and tried to analyze the situation. The colony
was moving from crisis to crisis, all of them involving food. In
itself, each critical situation was minor, but lumped together they
could add up to failure. No matter how he looked at it, they just
didn't have the equipment they needed to colonize Glade.

The fault seemed to lie with Biological Survey; they hadn't reported
the presence of pests that were endangering the food supply.
Regardless of what the exec thought about them, Survey knew their
business. If they said there were no mice or rats on Glade, then there
hadn't been any--_when the survey was made_.

The question was: when did they come and how did they get here?

Marin sat and stared at the wall, turning over hypotheses in his mind,
discarding them when they failed to make sense.

His gaze shifted from the wall to the cage of the omnivores, the
squirrel-size forest creature. The most numerous animal on Glade, it
was a commonplace sight to the colonists.

And yet it was a remarkable animal, more than he had realized. Plain,
insignificant in appearance, it might be the most important of any
animal Man had encountered on the many worlds he had settled on. The
longer he watched, the more Marin became convinced of it.

He sat silent, observing the creature, not daring to move. He sat
until it was dark and the omnivore resumed its normal activity.

_Normal?_ The word didn't apply on Glade.

The interlude with the omnivore provided him with one answer. He
needed another one; he thought he knew what it was, but he had to have
more data, additional observations.

He set up his equipment carefully on the fringes of the settlement.
There and in no other place existed the information he wanted.

He spent time in the digger, checking his original investigations. It
added up to a complete picture.

When he was certain of his facts, he called on Hafner.

The executive was congenial; it was a reflection of the smoothness
with which the objectives of the colony were being achieved.

"Sit down," he said affably. "Smoke?"

The biologist sat down and took a cigarette.

"I thought you'd like to know where the mice came from," he began.

Hafner smiled. "They don't bother us any more."

"I've also determined the origin of the rats."

"They're under control. We're doing nicely."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the contrary, thought Marin. He searched for the proper beginning.

"Glade has an Earth-type climate and topography," he said. "Has had
for the past twenty thousand years. Before that, about a hundred
million years ago, it was also like Earth of the comparable period."

He watched the look of polite interest settle on the executive's face
as he stated the obvious. Well, it _was_ obvious, up to a point. The
conclusions weren't, though.

"Between a hundred million years and twenty thousand years ago,
something happened to Glade," Marin went on. "I don't know the cause;
it belongs to cosmic history and we may never find out. Anyway,
whatever the cause--fluctuations in the sun, unstable equilibrium of
forces within the planet, or perhaps an encounter with an interstellar
dust cloud of variable density--the climate on Glade changed.

"It changed with inconceivable violence and it kept on changing. A
hundred million years ago, plus or minus, there was carboniferous
forest on Glade. Giant reptiles resembling dinosaurs and tiny mammals
roamed through it. The first great change wiped out the dinosaurs, as
it did on Earth. It didn't wipe out the still more primitive ancestor
of the omnivore, because it could adapt to changing conditions.

"Let me give you an idea how the conditions changed. For a few years a
given area would be a desert; after that it would turn into a jungle.
Still later a glacier would begin to form. And then the cycle would be
repeated, with wild variations. All this might happen--did
happen--within a span covered by the lifetime of a single omnivore.
This occurred many times. For roughly a hundred million years, it was
the norm of existence on Glade. This condition was hardly conducive to
the preservation of fossils."

Hafner saw the significance and was concerned. "You mean these
climatic fluctuations suddenly stopped, twenty thousand years ago? Are
they likely to begin again?"

"I don't know," confessed the biologist. "We can probably determine it
if we're interested."

The exec nodded grimly. "We're interested, all right."

Maybe we are, thought the biologist. He said, "The point is that
survival was difficult. Birds could and did fly to more suitable
climates; quite a few of them survived. Only one species of mammals
managed to come through."

"Your facts are not straight," observed Hafner. "There are four
species, ranging in size from a squirrel to a water buffalo."

"One species," Marin repeated doggedly. "They're the same. If the food
supply for the largest animal increases, some of the smaller so-called
species grow up. Conversely, if food becomes scarce in any category,
the next generation, which apparently can be produced almost
instantly, switches to a form which does have an adequate food
supply."

"The mice," Hafner said slowly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Marin finished the thought for him. "The mice weren't here when we got
here. They were born of the squirrel-size omnivore."

Hafner nodded. "And the rats?"

"Born of the next larger size. After all, we're environment,
too--perhaps the harshest the beasts have yet faced."

Hafner was a practical man, trained to administer a colony. Concepts
were not his familiar ground. "Mutations, then? But I thought--"

The biologist smiled. It was thin and cracked at the edges of his
mouth. "On Earth, it would be mutation. Here it is merely normal
evolutionary adaptation." He shook his head. "I never told you, but
omnivores, though they could be mistaken for an animal from Earth,
have no genes or chromosomes. Obviously they do have heredity, but how
it is passed down, I don't know. However it functions, it responds to
external conditions far faster than anything we've ever encountered."

Hafner nodded to himself. "Then we'll never be free from pests." He
clasped and unclasped his hands. "Unless, of course, we rid the
planet of all animal life."

"Radioactive dust?" asked the biologist. "They have survived worse."

The exec considered alternatives. "Maybe we should leave the planet
and leave it to the animals."

"Too late," said the biologist. "They'll be on Earth, too, and all the
planets we've settled on."

Hafner looked at him. The same pictures formed in his mind that Marin
had thought of. Three ships had been sent to colonize Glade. One had
remained with the colonists, survival insurance in case anything
unforeseen happened. Two had gone back to Earth to carry the report
that all was well and that more supplies were needed. They had also
carried specimens from the planet.

The cages those creatures were kept in were secure. But a smaller
species could get out, must already be free, inhabiting, undetected,
the cargo spaces of the ships.

There was nothing they could do to intercept those ships. And once
they reached Earth, would the biologists suspect? Not for a long time.
First a new kind of rat would appear. A mutation could account for
that. Without specific knowledge, there would be nothing to connect it
with the specimens picked up from Glade.

[Illustration]

"We have to stay," said the biologist. "We have to study them and we
can do it best here."

He thought of the vast complex of buildings on Earth. There was too
much invested to tear them down and make them verminproof. Billions of
people could not be moved off the planet while the work was being
done.

They were committed to Glade not as a colony, but as a gigantic
laboratory. They had gained one planet and lost the equivalent of ten,
perhaps more when the destructive properties of the omnivores were
finally assessed.

A rasping animal cough interrupted the biologist's thoughts. Hafner
jerked his head and glanced out the window. Lips tight, he grabbed a
rifle off the wall and ran out. Marin followed him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The exec headed toward the fields where the second fast crop was
maturing. On top of a knoll, he stopped and knelt. He flipped the dial
to _extreme charge_, aimed, and fired. It was high; he missed the
animal in the field. A neat strip of smoking brown appeared in the
green vegetation.

He aimed more carefully and fired again. The charge screamed out of
the muzzle. It struck the animal on the forepaw. The beast leaped high
in the air and fell down, dead and broiled.

They stood over the animal Hafner had killed. Except for the lack of
markings, it was a good imitation of a tiger. The exec prodded it with
his toe.

"We chase the rats out of the warehouse and they go to the fields," he
muttered. "We hunt them down in the fields with dogs and they breed
tigers."

"Easier than rats," said Marin. "We can shoot tigers." He bent down
over the slain dog near which they had surprised the big cat.

The other dog came whining from the far corner of the field to which
he had fled in terror. He was a courageous dog, but he could not face
the great carnivore. He whimpered and licked the face of his mate.

The biologist picked up the mangled dog and headed toward the
laboratory.

"You can't save her," said Hafner morosely. "She's dead."

"But the pups aren't. We'll need them. The rats won't disappear merely
because tigers have showed up."

The head drooped limply over his arm and blood seeped into his
clothing as Hafner followed him up the hill.

"We've been here three months," the exec said suddenly. "The dogs have
been in the fields only two. And yet the tiger was mature. How do you
account for something like that?"

Marin bent under the weight of the dog. Hafner never would understand
his bewilderment. As a biologist, all his categories were upset. What
did evolution explain? It was a history of organic life on a
particular world. Beyond that world, it might not apply.

Even about himself there were many things Man didn't know, dark
patches in his knowledge which theory simply had to pass over. About
other creatures, his ignorance was sometimes limitless.

Birth was simple; it occurred on countless planets. Meek grazing
creatures, fierce carnivores--the most unlikely animals gave birth to
their young. It happened all the time. And the young grew up, became
mature and mated.

He remembered that evening in the laboratory. It was accidental--what
if he had been elsewhere and not witnessed it? They would not know
what little they did.

He explained it carefully to Hafner. "If the survival factor is high
and there's a great disparity in size, the young need not ever be
young. They may be born as fully functioning adults!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Although not at the rate it had initially set, the colony progressed.
The fast crops were slowed down and a more diversified selection was
planted. New buildings were constructed and the supplies that were
stored in them were spread out thin, for easy inspection.

The pups survived and within a year shot up to maturity. After proper
training, they were released to the fields where they joined the older
dogs. The battle against the rats went on; they were held in check,
though the damage they caused was considerable.

The original animal, unchanged in form, developed an appetite for
electrical insulation. There was no protection except to keep the
power on at all times. Even then there were unwelcome interruptions
until the short was located and the charred carcass was removed.
Vehicles were kept tightly closed or parked only in verminproof
buildings. While the plague didn't increase in numbers, it couldn't be
eliminated, either.

There was a flurry of tigers, but they were larger animals and were
promptly shot down. They prowled at night, so the colonists were
assigned to guard the settlement around the clock. Where lights failed
to reach, the infra-red 'scope did. As fast as they came, the tigers
died. Except for the first one, not a single dog was lost.

The tigers changed, though not in form. Externally, they were all big
and powerful killers. But as the slaughter went on, Marin noticed one
astonishing fact--the internal organic structure became progressively
more immature.

The last one that was brought to him for examination was the
equivalent of a newly born cub. That tiny stomach was suited more for
the digestion of milk than meat. How it had furnished energy to drive
those great muscles was something of a miracle. But drive it had, for
a murderous fifteen minutes before the animal was brought down. No
lives were lost, though sick bay was kept busy for a while.

That was the last tiger they shot. After that, the attacks ceased.

The seasons passed and nothing new occurred. A spaceship civilization
or even that fragment of it represented by the colony was too much for
the creature, which Marin by now had come to think of as the
"Omnimal." It had evolved out of a cataclysmic past, but it could not
meet the challenge of the harshest environment.

Or so it seemed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three months before the next colonists were due, a new animal was
detected. Food was missing from the fields. It was not another tiger:
they were carnivorous. Nor rats, for vines were stripped in a manner
that no rodent could manage.

The food was not important. The colony had enough in storage. But if
the new animal signaled another plague, it was necessary to know how
to meet it. The sooner they knew what the animal was, the better
defense they could set up against it.

Dogs were useless. The animal roamed the field they were loose in, and
they did not attack nor even seem to know it was there.

The colonists were called upon for guard duty again, but it evaded
them. They patrolled for a week and they still did not catch sight of
it.

Hafner called them in and rigged up an alarm system in the field most
frequented by the animal. It detected that, too, and moved its sphere
of operations to a field in which the alarm system had not been
installed.

Hafner conferred with the engineer, who devised an alarm that would
react to body radiation. It was buried in the original field and the
old alarm was moved to another.

Two nights later, just before dawn, the alarm rang.

Marin met Hafner at the edge of the settlement. Both carried rifles.
They walked; the noise of any vehicle was likely to frighten the
animal. They circled around and approached the field from the rear.
The men in the camp had been alerted. If they needed help, it was
ready.

They crept silently through the underbrush. It was feeding in the
field, not noisily, yet they could hear it. The dogs hadn't barked.

They inched nearer. The blue sun of Glade came up and shone full on
their quarry. The gun dropped in Hafner's hand. He clenched his teeth
and raised it again.

Marin put out a restraining arm. "Don't shoot," he whispered.

"I'm the exec here. I say it's dangerous."

"Dangerous," agreed Marin, still in a whisper. "That's why you can't
shoot. It's more dangerous than you know."

Hafner hesitated and Marin went on. "The omnimal couldn't compete in
the changed environment and so it evolved mice. We stopped the mice
and it countered with rats. We turned back the rat and it provided the
tiger.

"The tiger was easiest of all for us and so it was apparently stopped
for a while. But it didn't really stop. Another animal was being
formed, the one you see there. It took the omnimal two years to create
it--how, I don't know. A million years were required to evolve it on
Earth."

Hafner hadn't lowered the rifle and he showed no signs of doing so.
He looked lovingly into the sights.

"Can't you see?" urged Marin. "We can't destroy the omnimal. It's on
Earth now, and on the other planets, down in the storage areas of our
big cities, masquerading as rats. And we've never been able to root
out even our own terrestrial rats, so how can we exterminate the
omnimal?"

"All the more reason to start now." Hafner's voice was flat.

Marin struck the rifle down. "Are their rats better than ours?" he
asked wearily. "Will their pests win or ours be stronger? Or will the
two make peace, unite and interbreed, make war on us? It's not
impossible; the omnimal could do it if interbreeding had a high
survival factor.

"Don't you still see? There is a progression. After the tiger, it bred
this. If this evolution fails, if we shoot it down, what will it
create next? This creature I think we can compete with. _It's the one
after this that I do not want to face._"

       *       *       *       *       *

It heard them. It raised its head and looked around. Slowly it edged
away and backed toward a nearby grove.

The biologist stood up and called softly. The creature scurried to the
trees and stopped just inside the shadows among them.

The two men laid down their rifles. Together they approached the
grove, hands spread open to show they carried no weapons.

It came out to meet them. Naked, it had had no time to learn about
clothing. Neither did it have weapons. It plucked a large white flower
from the tree and extended this mutely as a sign of peace.

"I wonder what it's like," said Marin. "It seems adult, but can it be,
all the way through? What's inside that body?"

"I wonder what's in his head," Hafner said worriedly.

It looked very much like a man.

--F. L. WALLACE

       *       *       *       *       *






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Student Body, by Floyd L. Wallace

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STUDENT BODY ***

***** This file should be named 31815.txt or 31815.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/8/1/31815/

Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Robert Cicconetti, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
