The Project Gutenberg EBook of Contamination Crew, by Alan Edward Nourse

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Contamination Crew

Author: Alan Edward Nourse

Illustrator: Ed Emshwiller

Release Date: April 9, 2010 [EBook #31932]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONTAMINATION CREW ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: Illustrated by Ed Emsh]


CONTAMINATION CREW

BY ALAN E. NOURSE


    _Orders were orders! The creature had to be killed. But just how
    does one destroy the indestructible?_


(_The following is taken from the files of the Medical Disciplinary
Board, Hospital Earth, from the preliminary hearings in re: The
Profession vs. Samuel B. Jenkins, Physician; First Court of Medical
Affairs, final action pending._)

 COM COD S221VB73 VOROCHISLOV SECTOR; 4th GALACTIC PERIOD 22, 2341
     GENERAL SURVEY SHIP MERCY TO HOSPITAL EARTH

 VIA: FASTEST POSSIBLE ROUTING, PRIORITY UNASSIGNED

 TO: Lucius Darby, Physician Grade I, Black Service Director of Galactic
     Periphery Services, Hospital Earth

 FROM: Samuel B. Jenkins, Physician Grade VI, Red Service General
     Practice Patrol Ship _Lancet_ (Attached GSS _Mercy_ pro tem)

SIR: The following communication is directed to your attention in hopes
that it may anticipate various charges which are certain to be placed
against me as a Physician of the Red Service upon the return of the
General Survey Ship _Mercy_ to Hospital Earth (expected arrival four
months from above date).

These charges will undoubtedly be preferred by one Turvold Neelsen,
Physician Grade II of the Black Service, and Commander of the _Mercy_ on
its current survey mission into the Vorochislov Sector. Exactly what the
charges will be I cannot say, since the Black Doctor in question refuses
either audience or communication with me at the present time; however,
it seems likely that treason, incompetence and mutinous insubordination
will be among the milder complaints registered. It is possible that even
Malpractice might be added, so you can readily understand the reasons
for this statement--

The following will also clarify my attached request that the GSS
_Mercy_, upon arrival in orbit around Hospital Earth, be met immediately
by a decontamination ship carrying a vat of hydrochloric acid,
concentration 3.7%, measuring no less than twenty by thirty by fifty
feet, and that Quarantine officials be prepared to place the entire crew
of the _Mercy_ under physical and psychiatric observation for a period
of no less than six weeks upon disembarkation.

The facts, in brief, are as follows:

Three months ago, as crew of the General Practice Patrol Ship _Lancet_,
my colleague Green Doctor Wallace Stone and myself began investigating
certain peculiar conditions existing on the fourth planet of Mauki,
Vorochislov Sector (Class I Medical Service Contract.) The entire
population of that planet was found to be suffering from a mass
psychotic delusion of rather spectacular proportions: namely, that they
and their entire planet were in imminent danger of being devoured, in
toto, by an indestructible non-humanoid creature which they called a
_hlorg_. The Maukivi were insistent that a _hlorg_ had already totally
consumed a non-existent outer planet in their system, and was now hard
at work on neighboring Mauki V. It was their morbid fear that Mauki IV
was next on its list. No amount of reassurance could convince them of
the foolishness of these fears, although we exhausted our energy, our
patience, and our food and medical supplies in the effort. Ultimately we
referred the matter to the Grey Service, feeling confident that it was a
psychiatric problem rather than medical or surgical. We applied to the
GSS _Mercy_ to take us aboard to replenish our ship's supplies, and
provide us a much-needed recovery period. The Black Doctor in command
approved our request and brought us aboard.

The trouble began two days later....

       *       *       *       *       *

There were three classes of dirty words in use by the men who travelled
the spaceways back and forth from Hospital Earth.

There were the words you seldom used in public, but which were colorful
and descriptive in private use.

Then there were the words which you seldom used even in private, but
which effectively relieved feelings when directed at mirrors, inanimate
objects, and people who had just left the room.

Finally, there were the words that you just didn't use, period. You knew
they existed; you'd heard them used at one time or another, but to hear
them spoken out in plain Earth-English was enough to rock the most
space-hardened of the Galactic Pill Peddlers back on his well-worn
heels.

Black Doctor Turvold Neelsen's Earth-English was spotty at best, but the
word came through without any possibility of misinterpretation. Red
Doctor Sam Jenkins stared at the little man and felt his face turning as
scarlet as the lining of his uniform cape.

"But that's ridiculous!" he finally stammered. "Quite aside from the
language you use to suggest it."

"Ah! So the word still has some punch left, eh? At least you puppies
bring something away from your Medical Training, even if it's only
taboos." The Black Doctor scowled across the desk at Jenkins' lanky
figure. "But sometimes, my good Doctor, it is better to face a fact than
to wait for the fact to face you. Sometimes we have to crawl out of our
ivory towers for a minute or two--you know?"

Jenkins reddened again. He had never had any great love for physicians
of the Black Service--who did?--but he found himself disliking this
short, blunt-spoken man even more cordially than most. "Why implicate
the _Lancet_?" he burst out. "You've landed the _Mercy_ on plenty of
planets before we brought the _Lancet_ aboard her--"

"But we did not have it with us before the _Lancet_ came aboard, and we
do have it now. The implication is obvious. You have brought aboard a
contaminant."

He'd said it again.

Red Doctor Jenkins' face darkened. "The Green Doctor and I have
maintained the _Lancet_ in perfect conformity with the Sterility Code.
We've taken every precaution on both landing and disembarking
procedures. What's more, we've spent the last three months on a planet
with _no_ mutually compatible flora or fauna. From Hospital Earth
viewpoint, Mauki IV is sterile. We made only the briefest check-stop on
Mauki V before joining you. It was a barren rock, but we decontaminated
again after leaving. If you have a--a _contaminant_ on board your ship,
sir, it didn't come from the _Lancet_. And I won't be held responsible."

It was strong language to use to a Black Doctor, and Sam Jenkins knew
it. There were doctors of the Green and Red Services who had spent their
professional lives on some god-forsaken planetoid at the edge of the
Galaxy for saying less. Red Doctor Sam Jenkins was too near the end of
his Internship, too nearly ready for his first Permanent Planetary
Appointment with the rank, honor, and responsibility it carried to
lightly risk throwing it to the wind at this stage--

But a Red Doctor does not bring a contaminant aboard a survey ship, he
thought doggedly, no matter what the Black Doctor says--

Neelsen looked at the young man slowly. Then he shrugged. "Of course,
I'm merely a pathologist. I realize that we know nothing of medicine,
nor of disease, nor of the manner in which disease is spread. All this
is beyond our scope. But perhaps you'll permit one simple question from
a dull old man, just to humor him."

Jenkins looked at the floor. "I'm sorry, sir."

"Just so. You've had a very successful cruise this year with the
_Lancet_, I understand."

Jenkins nodded.

"A most successful cruise. Four planets elevated from Class IV to Class
II contracts, they tell me. Morua II elevated from Class VI to Class I,
with certain special riders. A plague-panic averted on Setman I, and a
very complex virus-bacteria symbiosis unravelled on Orb III. An
illustrious record. You and your colleague from the Green Service are
hoping for a year's exemption from training, I imagine--" The Black
Doctor looked up sharply. "You searched your holds after leaving the
Mauki planets, I presume?"

Jenkins blinked. "Why--no, sir. That is, we decontaminated according
to--"

"I see. You didn't search your holds. I suppose you didn't notice your
food supplies dwindling at an alarming rate?"

"No--" The Red Doctor hesitated. "Not really."

"Ah." The Black Doctor closed his eyes wearily and flipped an activator
switch. The scanner on the far wall buzzed into activity. It focussed on
the rear storage hold of the _Mercy_ where the little _Lancet_ was
resting on its landing rack. "Look closely, Doctor."

At first Jenkins saw nothing. Then his eye caught a long, pink
glistening strand lying across the floor of the hold. The scanner picked
up the strand, followed it to the place where it emerged from a neat
pencil-sized hole in the hull of the _Lancet_. The strand snaked
completely across the room and disappeared through another neat hole in
the wall into the next storage hold.

Jenkins shook his head as the scanner flipped back to the hole in the
_Lancet's_ hull. Even as he watched, the hole enlarged and a pink blob
began to emerge. The blob kept coming and coming until it rested soggily
on the edge of the hole. Then it teetered and fell _splat_ on the floor.

"Friend of yours?" the Black Doctor asked casually.

It was a pink heap of jelly just big enough to fill a scrub bucket. It
sat on the floor, quivering noxiously. Then it sent out pseudopods in
several directions, probing the metal floor. After a few moments it
began oozing along the strand of itself that lay on the floor, and
squeezed through the hole into the next hold.

"Ugh," said Sam Jenkins, feeling suddenly sick.

"The hydroponic tanks are in there," the Black Doctor said. "You've seen
one of those before?"

"Not in person." Jenkins shook his head weakly. "Only pictures. It's a
_hlorg_. We thought it was only a Maukivi persecution fantasy."

"This thing is growing pretty fast for a persecution fantasy. We spotted
it eight hours ago, demolishing what was left of your food supply. It's
twice as big now as it was then."

"Well, we've got to get rid of it," said Jenkins, suddenly coming to
life.

"Amen, Doctor."

"I'll get the survey crew alerted right away. We won't waste a minute.
And my apologies." Jenkins was hurrying for the door. "I'll get it
cleared out of here fast."

"I do hope so," said the Black Doctor. "The thing makes me ill just to
think about."

"I'll give you a clean-ship report in twenty-four hours," the Red Doctor
said as confidently as he could and beat a hasty retreat down the
corridor. He was wishing fervently that he felt as confident as he
sounded.

The Maukivi had described the _hlorg_ in excruciating detail. He and
Green Doctor Stone had listened, and smiled sadly at each other, day
after day, marvelling at the fanciful delusion. _Hlorgs_, indeed! And
such creatures to dream up--eating, growing, devouring plant, animal and
mineral without discrimination--

And the Maukivi had stoutly maintained that this _hlorg_ of theirs was
indestructible--

       *       *       *       *       *

Green Doctor Wally Stone, true to his surgical calling, was a man of
action.

"You mean there _is_ such a thing?" he exploded when his partner
confronted him with the news. "For real? Not just somebody's pipe
dream?"

"There is," said Jenkins, "and we've got it. Here. On board the _Mercy_.
It's eating like hell-and-gone and doubling its size every eight hours."

"Well what are you waiting for? Toss it overboard!"

"Fine! And what happens to the next party it happens to land on? We're
supposed to be altruists, remember? We're supposed to worry about the
health of the Galaxy." Jenkins shook his head. "Whatever we do with it,
we have to find out just what we're tossing before we toss."

The creature had made itself at home aboard the _Mercy_. In the spirit
of uninvited guests since time immemorial, it had established a toehold
with remarkable asperity, and now was digging in for the long winter.
Drawn to the hydroponic tanks like a flea to a dog, the _hlorg_ had
settled its bulbous pink body down in their murky depths with a
contented gurgle. As it grew larger the tank-levels grew lower, the
broth clearer.

The fact that the twenty-five crewmen of the _Mercy_ depended on those
tanks for their food supply on the four-month run back to Hospital Earth
didn't seem to bother the _hlorg_ a bit. It just sank down wetly and
began to eat.

Under Jenkins' whip hand, and with Green Doctor Stone's assistance, the
Survey Crew snapped into action. Survey was the soul and lifeblood of
the medical services supplied by Hospital Earth to the inhabited planets
of the Galaxy. Centuries before, during the era of exploration, every
Earth ship had carried a rudimentary Survey Crew--a physiologist, a
biochemist, an immunologist, a physician--to determine the safety of
landings on unknown planets. Other races were more advanced in
technological and physical sciences, in sales or in merchandising--but
in the biological sciences men of Earth stood unexcelled in the Galaxy.
It was not surprising that their casual offerings of medical services
wherever their ships touched had led to a growing demand for those
services, until the first Medical Service Contract with Deneb III had
formalized the planetary specialty. Earth had become Hospital Earth,
physician to a Galaxy, surgeon to a thousand worlds, midwife to those
susceptible to midwifery and psychiatrist to those whose inner lives
zigged when their outer lives zagged.

In the early days it had been a haphazard arrangement; but gradually
distinct Services appeared to handle problems of medicine, surgery,
radiology, psychiatry and all the other functions of a well-appointed
medical service. Under the direction of the Black Service of Pathology,
Hospital ships and Survey ships were dispatched to serve as bases for
the tiny General Practice Patrol ships that answered the calls of the
planets under Contract.

But it was the Survey ships that did the basic dirty-work on any new
planet taken under Contract--outlining the physiological and biochemical
aspects of the races involved, studying their disease patterns, their
immunological types, their susceptibility to medical, surgical, or
psychiatric treatment. It was an exacting service to perform, and Survey
did an exacting job.

Now, with their own home base invaded by a hungry pink jelly-blob, the
Survey Crew of the _Mercy_ dug in with all fours to find a way to
exorcise it.

The early returns were not encouraging.

Bowman, the anatomist, spent six hours with the creature. He'd go after
the functional anatomy first, he thought, as he approached the task with
gusto. Special organs, vital organ systems--after all, every Achilles
had his heel. Functional would spot it if anything would--

Six hours later he rendered a preliminary report. It consisted of a
blank sheet of paper and an expression of wild frustration.

"What's this supposed to mean?" Jenkins asked.

"Just what it says."

"But it says nothing!"

"That's exactly what it means." Bowman was a thin, wistful-looking man
with a hawk nose and a little brown mustache. He subbed as ship's cook
when things were slow in his specialty. He wasn't a very good cook, but
what could anyone do with the sludge from the harvest shelf of a
hydroponic tank? Now, with the _hlorg_ incumbent, there wasn't even any
sludge.

"I drained off a tank and got a good look at it before it crawled over
into the next one," Bowman said. "Ugly bastard. But from a strictly
anatomical standpoint I can't help you a bit."

Green Doctor Stone glowered over Jenkins' shoulder at the man. "But
surely you can give us _something_."

Bowman shrugged. "You want it technical?"

"Any way you like."

"Your _hlorg_ is an ideal anamorph. A nothing. Protoplasm, just
protoplasm."

Jenkins looked up sharply. "What about his cellular organization?"

"No cells," said Bowman. "Unless they're sub-microscopic, and I'd need
an electron-peeker to tell you that."

"No organ systems?"

"Not even an integument. You saw how slippery he looked? That's why.
There's nothing holding him in but energy."

"Now, look," said Stone. "He eats, doesn't he? He must have waste
materials of some sort."

Bowman shook his head unhappily. "Sorry. No urates. No nitrates. No
CO{2}. Anyway, he doesn't eat because he has nothing to eat with. He
absorbs. And that includes the lining of the tanks, which he seems to
like as much as the contents. He doesn't _bore_ those holes he makes--he
_dissolves_ them."

They sent Bowman back to quarters for a hot bath and a shot of Happy-O
and looked up Hrunta, the biochemist.

Hrunta was glaring at paper electrophoretic patterns and pulling out
chunks of hair around his bald spot. He gave them a snarl and shoved a
sheaf of papers into their hands.

"Metabolic survey?" Jenkins asked.

"Plus," said Hrunta. "You're not going to like it, either."

"Why not? If it grows, it metabolizes. If it metabolizes, we can kill
it. Axiom number seventeen, paragraph number four."

"Oh, it metabolizes, all right, but you'd better find yourself another
axiom, pretty quick."

"Why?"

"Because it not only metabolizes, it _consumes_. There's no sign of the
usual protein-carbohydrate-fat metabolism going on here. This baby has
an enzyme system that's straight from hell. It bypasses the usual
metabolic activities that produce heat and energy and gets right down to
basic-basic."

Jenkins swallowed. "What do you mean?"

"It attacks the nuclear structure of whatever matter the creature comes
in contact with. There's a partial mass-energy conversion in its rawest
form. The creature goes after carbon-bearing substances first, since the
C seems to break down more easily than anything else--hence its
preference for plant and animal material over non-C stuff. But it can
use anything if it has to--"

Jenkins stared at the little biochemist, an image in his mind of the
pink creature in the hold, growing larger by the minute as it ate its
way through the hydroponics, through the dry stores, through--

"Is there anything it _can't_ use?"

"If there is, I haven't found it," Hrunta said sadly. "In fact, I can't
see any reason why it couldn't consume this ship and everything in it,
right down to the last rivet--"

       *       *       *       *       *

They walked down to the hold for another look at their uninvited guest,
and almost wished they hadn't.

It had reached the size of a small hippopotamus, although the
resemblance ended there. Twenty hours had elapsed since the survey had
begun. The _hlorg_ had used every minute of it, draining the tanks,
engulfing dry stores, devouring walls and floors as it spread out in
search of food, leaving trails of eroded metal wherever it went.

It was ugly--ugly in its pink shapelessness, ugly in its slimy
half-sentient movements, in its very _purposefulness_. But its ugliness
went even deeper, stirring primordial feelings of revulsion and loathing
in their minds as they watched it oozing implacably across the hold to
another dry-storage bin.

Wally Stone shuddered. "It's _grown_."

"Too fast. Bowman charts it as geometric progression."

Stone scratched his jaw as a lone pink pseudopod pushed out on the floor
toward him. Then he leaped forward and stamped on it, severing the
strand from the body.

The severed member quivered and lay still for a moment. Then it flowed
back to rejoin the body with a wet gurgle.

Stone looked at his half-dissolved shoe.

"Egotropism," Jenkins said. "Bowman played around with that, too. A
severed piece will rejoin if it can. If it can't it just takes up
independent residence and we have two _hlorgs_."

"What happens to it outside the ship?" Stone wanted to know.

"It falls dormant for several hours, and then splits up into a thousand
independent chunks. One of the boys spent half of yesterday out there
gathering them up. I tell you, this thing is equipped to _survive_."

"So are we," said Green Doctor Stone grimly. "If we can't outwit this
free-flowing gob of obscenity, we deserve anything we get. Let's have a
conference."

They met in the pilot room. The Black Doctor was there; so were Bowman
and Hrunta. Chambers, the physiologist, was glumly clasping and
unclasping his hands in a corner. The geneticist, Piccione, drew symbols
on a scratch pad and stared blankly at the wall.

Jenkins was saying: "Of course, these are only preliminary reports, but
they serve to outline the problem. This is not just an annoyance any
longer, it's a crisis. We'd all better understand that."

The Black Doctor cut him off with a wave of his hand, and glowered at
the papers as he read them through minutely. As he sat hunched at the
desk with the black cowl of his office hanging down from his shoulders
he looked like a squat black judge, Jenkins thought, a shadow from the
Inquisition, a Passer of Spells. But there was no medievalism in Black
Doctor Neelsen. In fact, it was for that reason, and only that reason,
that the Black Service had come to be the leaders and the whips, the
executors and directors of all the manifold operations of Hospital
Earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

The physicians of the General Practice Patrol were fledglings, newly
trained in their specialties, inexperienced in the rigorous discipline
of medicine that was required of the directors of permanent Planetary
Dispensaries in the heavily populated systems of the Galaxy. On outlying
worlds where little was known of the ways of medicine, the temptation
was great to substitute faith for knowledge, cant for investigation,
nonsense rituals for hard work. But the physicians of the Black Service
were always waiting to jerk wandering neophytes back to the scientific
disciplines that made the service of Hospital Earth so effective. The
Black Doctors would not tolerate sloppiness. "Show me the tissue,
Doctor," they would say. "Prove to me that what you say is so. Prove
that what you did was valid medicine...." Their laboratories were the
morgues and autopsy rooms of a thousand planets, the Temples of Truth
from which no physician since the days of Pasteur and Lister could
escape for long and retain his position.

The Black Doctors were the pragmatists, the gadflies of Hospital Earth.

For this reason it was surprising to hear Black Doctor Neelsen saying,
"Perhaps we are being too scientific, just now. When the creature has
exhausted our food stores, it will look elsewhere for food. Perhaps we
must cut at the tree and not at the root."

"A frontal attack?" said Jenkins.

"Just so. Its enzyme system is its vulnerability. Enzyme systems operate
under specific optimum conditions, right? And every known enzyme system
can be inactivated by adverse conditions of one sort or another. A
physical approach may tell us how in this case. Meanwhile we will be on
emergency rations, and hope that we don't starve to death finding out."
The Black Doctor paused, looking at the men around him. "And in case you
are thinking of enlisting help from outside, forget it. I've sent
plague-warnings out for Galactic relay. We have this thing isolated, and
we're going to keep it that way as long as I command this ship."

They went gloomily back to their laboratories to plan their frontal
attack.

That was the night that Hrunta disappeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was gone when they came to wake him from his sleep period. His bunk
had been slept in, but he wasn't in it. In fact, he wasn't anywhere on
the ship.

"But he couldn't just vanish!" the Black Doctor burst out when they told
him the news. "Maybe he's hiding somewhere. Maybe this business was
working on his mind."

Green Doctor Stone took a crew of men to search the ship again, even
though he considered it a waste of precious time. He had his private
convictions about where Hrunta had gone.

So did every other man on the ship, including Jenkins.

The _hlorg_ had stopped eating. Huge and round and wet and ugly, it
squatted in the after-hold, quivering gently, without any other sign of
life.

Surfeited. Like a fat man after a turkey dinner.

Jenkins reviewed progress with the others. No stone had been left
unturned. They had sliced the _hlorg_, and squeezed it. They had boiled
it and frozen it. They had dropped chunks of it in acid vats and covered
other chunks with desiccants and alkalis. Nothing seemed to bother it.

A cold environment slowed down its activity, true, but it also
stimulated the process of fission. Warmed up again, the portions sucked
back together again and resumed eating.

Heat was a little more effective, but not much. It stunned the creature
for a brief period, but it would not burn. It hissed frightfully and
gave off an overpowering stench, and curled up at the edges, but as soon
as the heat was turned off it began to recover.

In Hrunta's lab chunks of the _hlorg_ sat in a dozen vats on tables and
in sinks. Some contained antibiotics, some concentrated acids, some
desiccants. In each vat a blob of pink protoplasm wiggled happily,
showing no sign of discomfiture. On another table were the remains of
Hrunta's (unsuccessful) attempt to prepare an anti-_hlorg_ serum.

But no Hrunta.

"He was down there with the thing all day," Bowman said sadly. "He felt
it was his responsibility, really. Hrunta thought biochemistry was the
answer to all things, of course. Very conscientious man."

"But he was in _bed_."

"He claimed he did his best thinking in bed. Maybe he had a brainstorm
and went down to try it out, and--"

"Yes." Jenkins nodded sourly. "And." He walked down the row of vats.
"You'd think that at least concentrated sulphuric would dessicate it a
little. But it's just formed a crust of coagulated protein around
itself, and sits there--"

Bowman peered over his shoulder, his mustache twitching. "But it does
dessicate."

"If you use enough long enough."

"How about concentrated hydrochloric?"

"Same thing. Maybe a little more effective, but not enough to count."

"Okay. Next we try combinations. There's got to be _something_ the
wretched beast can't tolerate--"

There was, of course.

       *       *       *       *       *

Green Doctor Stone brought it to Jenkins as he was getting ready to turn
in for a sleep period. Jenkins had checked to make sure double guards
were posted in the _hlorg's_ vicinity, and jolted them with Sleep-Not to
keep them on their toes. All the same, he tied a length of stout cord
around his ankle just to make sure he didn't do any sleepwalking. He was
tying it to the bunk when Stone came in with a pan in his hand and a
peculiar look on his face.

"Take a look at this," he said.

Jenkins looked at the sickly brown mass in the tray, and then up at
Stone. "Where did you find it?"

"Down in the hold. Our _hlorg_ has broken precedent. It's _rejected_
something that it ate."

"Yeah. What is it?"

"I don't know. I'm taking it to Neelsen for paraffin sections. But I
know what it looks like to me."

"Mm. I know." Jenkins felt sick. Stone headed up to the path lab,
leaving the Red Doctor settled in his bunk.

Ten minutes later Jenkins sat bolt upright in the darkness. Frantically
he untied himself and slid into his clothes. "Idiot!" he growled to
himself. "Seventh son of a seventh son--"

Five minutes later he was staring at the vats in Hrunta's laboratory. He
found the one he was looking for. A pink blob of _hlorg_ wiggled slowly
around the bottom.

Jenkins drew a beaker of distilled water and added it to the fluid in
the vat. It hissed and sputtered and sent up quantities of acrid steam.
When the steam had cleared away, Jenkins peered in eagerly.

The pink thing in the bottom was turning a sickly violet. It had quit
wiggling. As Jenkins watched, the violet color changed to mud grey, then
to black. He prodded it with a stirring rod. There was no response.

With a whoop Jenkins buzzed Bowman and Stone. "We've got it!" he shouted
to them when they appeared. "Look! Look at it!"

Bowman poked and probed and broke into a wide grin. The piece of _hlorg_
was truly and sincerely dead. "It inactivates the enzyme system, and
renders the base protoplasm vulnerable to anything that normally attacks
it. What are we waiting for?"

They began tearing the laboratory apart, searching for the right
bottles. The supply was discouragingly small, but there was some in
stock. The three of them raced down the corridor for the hold where the
_hlorg_ was.

It took them three hours of angry work to exhaust the supply. They
whittled chunks off the _hlorg_, tossed them in pans of the deadly
fluid. With each slice they stopped momentarily to watch it turn violet,
then black, as it died. The _hlorg_, dwindling in size, sensed the
attack and slapped frantically at their ankles, sending out angry plumes
of wet jelly, but they ducked and dodged and whittled some more. The
_hlorg_ quivered and gurgled and wept pinkish goo all over the floor,
but it grew smaller and weaker with every whack.

"Hrunta must have spotted it and come down here alone," Jenkins panted
between slices. "Maybe he slipped, lost his footing, I don't know--"

They continued to work until the supply was exhausted. They had reduced
the _hlorg_ to a quarter its previous size. "Check the other labs, see
if they have some more," said Stone.

"I already have," Bowman said. "They don't. This is it."

"But we haven't got it all killed. There's still--" He pointed to the
thing quailing in the corner.

"I know. We're licked, that's all. There isn't any more of the stuff on
the ship."

They stopped and looked at each other suddenly. Then Jenkins said: "Oh,
yes there is."

There was silence. Bowman looked at Stone, and Stone looked at Bowman.
They both looked at Jenkins. "Oh, no. Sorry. I decline." Stone shook his
head slowly.

"But we have to! There's no other way. If the enzyme system is
inactivated, it's just protoplasm--there's no physiological or
biochemical reason--"

"You know what you can do with your physiology and biochemistry," Bowman
said succinctly. "You can also count me out." He left them and the
hatchway clanged after him.

"Wally?"

"Yeah."

"It'll be months before we get back to Hospital Earth. We know how we
can hold it in check until we get there."

"Yeah."

"Well?"

Green Doctor Wally Stone sighed. "Greater love hath no man," he said
wearily. "We'd better go tell Neelsen, I guess."

       *       *       *       *       *

Black Doctor Turvold Neelsen's answer was a flat, unequivocal no. "It's
monstrous and preposterous. I won't stand for it. Nobody will stand for
it."

"But you have the proof in your own hands," Jenkins said. "You saw the
specimen that the Green Doctor brought you."

Neelsen hunched back angrily. "I saw it."

"And your impression of it? As a pathologist?"

"I fail to see how my impression applies one way or the other--"

"Doctor, sometimes we have to face facts. Remember?"

"All right." Neelsen seemed to curl up into himself still further. "The
specimen was stomach."

"Human stomach?"

"Human stomach."

"But the only human on this ship that doesn't have a stomach is Hrunta,"
said Jenkins.

"So the _hlorg_ ate him."

"_Most_ of him. Not quite all. It threw out the one part of him it
couldn't eat. The part containing a substance that inactivated its
enzyme system. Dilute hydrochloric acid, to be specific. We used the
entire ship's supply, and cut the _hlorg_ down to three-quarters size,
but we need a continuous supply to keep it whittled down until we get
home. And there's only one good, permanent, reliable source of dilute
hydrochloric acid on board this ship--"

The Black Doctor's face was purple. "I said no," he choked. "My answer
stands."

The Red Doctor sighed and turned to Green Doctor Stone. "All right,
Wally," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

(_From the files of the Medical Disciplinary Board, Hospital Earth, op.
cit._)

I am certain that you can see from the foregoing that a reasonable
effort was made by Green Doctor Stone and myself to put the plan in
effect peaceably and with full approval of our commander. It was our
conviction, however, that the emergency nature of the circumstances
required that it be done with or without his approval. Our subsequent
success in containing the _hlorg_ to at least reasonable and manageable
proportions should bear out the wisdom of our decision.

Actually, it has not been as bad as one might think. It has been
necessary to confine the crew to their quarters, and to restrain the
Black Doctor forcibly, but with liberal use of Happy-O we can
occasionally convince ourselves that it is rare beefsteak, and the Green
Doctor, our pro-tem cook has concocted several very tasty sauces, such
as mushroom, onion, etc. We reduce the _hlorg_ to half its size each
day, and if thoroughly heated the chunks lie still on the plate for
quite some time.

No physical ill effects have been noted, and the period of quarantine is
recommended solely to allow the men an adequate period for psychological
recovery.

I have only one further recommendation: that the work team from the Grey
Service be recalled at once from their assignment on Mauki IV. The
problem is decidedly not psychiatric, and it would be one of the
tragedies of the ages if our excellent psychiatric service were to
succeed in persuading the Maukivi out of their 'delusion'.

After all, Hospital Earth cannot afford to jeopardize a Contract--

                               (Signed) Samuel B. Jenkins,
                                        Physician Grade VI
                                        Red Service
                                        GPP Ship _Lancet_
                                        (Attached GSS _Mercy_ pro tem)


END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _If: Worlds of Science Fiction_
    February 1958. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
    the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling
    and typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of Project Gutenberg's Contamination Crew, by Alan Edward Nourse

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONTAMINATION CREW ***

***** This file should be named 31932.txt or 31932.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/9/3/31932/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
