The Project Gutenberg EBook of Brknk's Bounty, by Gerald Allan Sohl

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Brknk's Bounty

Author: Gerald Allan Sohl

Illustrator: Kossin

Release Date: April 12, 2010 [EBook #31964]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BRKNK'S BOUNTY ***




Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from Galaxy Science Fiction January 1955.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed.


                            BRKNK'S BOUNTY


                                  By

                              JERRY SOHL


                        Illustrated by KOSSIN


     From a feature writer to feature attraction--now there's a
     real booze-to-riches success story!

       *       *       *       *       *




I never thought I'd like circus life, but a year of it has changed me.
It's in my blood now and I suppose I'll never give it up--even if
they'd let me.

This job is better than anything I could get in the newspaper racket.
I work all summer, it's true, but I get the winter off, though some of
the offers for winter work are mighty tempting. Maybe if I hadn't been
kicked off the paper, I'd be city editor now, knocking my brains out.
Who knows? But maybe I'd just be a rewrite man, or in the slot,
writing heads, or copyreading. But the thought of newspaper work after
all this appalls me.

Trlk, the Sybillian, should be thanked for the whole thing, I suppose,
though it would be a grudging thank-you I'd give him, considering all
the trouble he caused. Still....

I first saw him on a July morning at the beginning of the vacation
schedule, when four of us on the local side were trying to do five
people's work.

My first inkling anything was wrong came when I returned from the
courthouse beat and stuck a sheet of paper in the typewriter to write
the probate court notes.

I struck the keys. They wouldn't go all the way down. I opened the
cover plate, looked in to see what was wrong. I saw nothing, so I
tried again. Oscar Phipps, the city editor, was giving me the eye. I
figured maybe he was pulling a trick on me. But then I knew _he_
hadn't. He wasn't the type.

       *       *       *       *       *

The back space, tabular, margin release, shift and shift lock worked
perfectly. But the keys only went down a short way before they
stopped. All except one key. The cap _D_.

I hit the _D_. It worked fine the first time, but not the second. I
tried all the keys again. This time only the _i_ worked. Now I had
_Di_. I went ahead testing. Pretty soon I had

_Dimly_

Then came a space. A few letters more and it was

_Dimly drouse the dreary droves_

Phipps had one eyebrow raised. I lifted the cover plate again.
Quickly.

There I saw a fuzzy thing. It whisked out of sight. I snapped the
plate down and held it down. The party I had been on the night before
hadn't been that good and I had had at least three hours' sleep.

I tried typing again. I got nothing until I started a new line. Then
out came

_Primly prides the privy prose_

I banged up the plate, saw a blur of something slinking down between
the type bar levers again. Whatever it was, it managed to squeeze
itself out of sight in a most amazing way.

"Hey!" I said. "I know you're down there. What's the big idea?"

Fuzzy squeezed his head up from the levers. The head looked like that
of a mouse, but it had teeth like a chipmunk and bright little black
beads for eyes. They looked right at me.

"You go right ahead," he said in a shrill voice. "This is going to be
a great poem. Did you get all that alliteration there in those two
lines?"

"Listen, will you get out of there? I've got work to do!"

"Yes, I think I've hit it at last. It was that four-stress iambic that
did it. It was iambic, wasn't it?"

"Go away," I said miserably.

Fuzzy pulled the rest of himself out of the bars and stood on hind
feet. He crossed his forepaws in front of him, vibrated his long,
furry tail, and said defiantly, "No."

"Look," I pleaded, "I'm not Don Marquis and you're not Archie and I
have work to do. Now will you _please_ get out of this typewriter?"

His tiny ears swiveled upward. "Who's Don Marquis? And Archie?"

"Go to hell," I said. I slammed the cover down and looked up into the
cold eyes of Oscar Phipps who was standing next to my desk.

"Who, may I ask," he said ominously, "do you think you're talking to?"

"Take a look." I lifted the plate once again. Fuzzy was there on his
back, his legs crossed, his tail twitching.

"I don't see anything," Phipps said.

"You mean you can't see Fuzzy here?" I pointed to him, the end of my
finger an inch from his head. "Ouch!" I drew my hand away. "The little
devil bit me."

"You're fired, Mr. Weaver," Phipps said in a tired voice. "Fired as of
right now. I'll arrange for two weeks' severance pay. And my advice to
you is to stay off the bottle or see a psychiatrist--or both. Not that
it'll do you any good. You never amounted to anything and you never
will."

I would have taken a swipe at Fuzzy, but he had slunk out of sight.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the two erratic years I had been on the newspaper, I had passed
the city park every morning on my way to work, feeling an envy for
those who had nothing better to do than sit on the benches and
contemplate the nature of the Universe. Now I took myself there and
sat as I had seen others do, hoping to feel a kinship with these
unfortunates.

But all I did was feel alone, frustrated and angry at Phipps. Maybe I
had been too convivial, maybe I had enjoyed night life too much, maybe
I hadn't given the paper my all. But I wasn't ready for the booby
hatch even if I had seen a fuzzy little thing that could talk.

I drew a copy of _Editor and Publisher_ from my pocket and was
scanning the "Help Wanted: Editorial" columns when out of the corner
of my eye I saw a blob of black moving along the walk.

Turning handsprings, balancing himself precariously on the end of his
vibrating tail, running and waving his forepaws to get my attention
was Fuzzy.

I groaned. "Please go away!" I covered my eyes so I wouldn't have to
look at him.

"Why?" he piped.

"Because you're a hallucination."

"I'm not a hallucination," he said indignantly. "I'm real flesh and
blood. See?" He vibrated his tail so fast, I could hardly see it. Then
it stopped and stood straight out. "Lovely, isn't it?"

"Look," I said, leaning far off the bench to speak to him, "I can
prove you're a hallucination."

"You _can_?" he quavered. "How?"

"Because Phipps couldn't see you."

"That square? Hah! He would not have believed it if he had seen me."

"You mean you--"

He disappeared and reappeared like a flashing neon sign. "There!" he
said triumphantly.

"Why didn't you let him see you then?" I asked, a little angry, but
pleased nonetheless with his opinion of Phipps. "Because you didn't,
you cost me my job."

       *       *       *       *       *

He waved a forepaw deprecatingly. "You didn't want to stay on that
hick sheet anyway."

"It was a job."

"Now you've got a better one."

"Who's kidding whom?"

"Together we'll write real literature."

"I don't know anything about literature. My job is writing the news."

"You'll be famous. With my help, of course."

"Not with that 'dimly drouse' stuff."

"Oh, that!"

"Where did you come from, Fuzzy?"

"Do I ask you where you come from?"

"Well, no--"

"And my name's not Fuzzy. It's Trlk, pronounced Turlick and spelled
T-r-l-k."

"My name's Larry Weaver, pronounced Lar-ree--"

"I know. Look, you got a typewriter?"

"A portable. At the apartment."

"That will do."

"Aren't you taking things for granted? I haven't said yet whether I
liked the idea."

"Do you have any choice?"

I looked at him, a couple of ounces of harmless-looking fur that had
already cost me my immediate future in the newspaper business.

"I guess not," I said, hoping I could find a way to get rid of him if
things didn't work out right.

And so began a strange collaboration, with Trlk perched on my shoulder
dictating stories into my ear while I typed them. He had definite
ideas about writing and I let him have his way. After all, I didn't
know anything about literature.

Sometimes, when he'd get stuck, he'd get down and pace the living room
rug. Other times he'd massage his tail, which was as long as he,
smoothing it with his tongue and meticulously arranging every hair on
it.

"It's lovely, don't you think?" he often asked.

And I'd say, "If you spent as much time working on this story as you
do admiring your tail, we'd get something done."

[Illustration: ]

"Sorry," he'd say, hopping on my shoulder again. "Where were we?"

I'd read the last page and we'd be off again.

       *       *       *       *       *

One day, Trlk crawled on a shelf to watch me shave, whiffed the
shaving lotion bottle, became excited and demanded I put a drop of it
in front of him. He lapped it up, sank blissfully back on his tail and
sighed.

"Wonnerful," he squeaked. "Shimply wonnerful." He hiccupped.

I let him sleep it off, but was always careful with the lotion after
that.

Days stretched into weeks, my money was running low and the apartment
superintendent was pressing me for payment of the month's rent. I kept
telling him I'd pay as soon as the first checks came in.

But only rejection slips came. First one, then two, then half a dozen.

"They don't even read them!" Trlk wailed.

"Of course they read them," I said. I showed him the sheets. They were
wrinkled from handling.

"The post office did that," he countered.

I showed him coffee spots on one page, cigarette burns on another.

"Well, maybe--" he said, but I don't think anything would have
convinced him.

When the last story came back, Trlk was so depressed, I felt sorrier
for him than I did for myself.

It was time. We had been working hard. I got out a bottle.

I poured a little lotion for Trlk.

The next afternoon, we tackled the problem in earnest. We went to the
library, got a book on writing and took it home. After reading it from
cover to cover, I said, "Trlk, I think I've found the trouble with
your stories."

"What is it?"

"You don't write about things you know, things that happened to you,
that you have observed." I showed him where it advised this in the
book.

His eyes brightened. We went right to work.

This time the stories glowed, but so did my cheeks. The narratives all
involved a man who lived in a hotel room. They recounted the seemingly
endless love affairs with his female visitors.

"Why, Trlk!" I exclaimed. "How come you know about things like this?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He confessed he had lived with such a man, a freelance writer who
never made the grade with his writing, but who had plenty of girl
friends who paid the freight.

"He had a way with women," Trlk explained.

"He certainly had," I said, reading again the last page he had
dictated.

"He finally married an older woman with money. Then he gave up trying
to write."

"I don't blame him," I said wistfully.

"I had to find another writer. This time I decided to try a newspaper.
That's where I ran into you."

"Don't remind me."

Things got better after that. We began to get a few checks from
magazines. They were small checks, but they paid a few bills.

The big blow fell, however, when Mr. Aldenrood, the superintendent,
came roaring upstairs one day clutching a sheaf of papers.

"This stuff!" he screamed, waving the sheets before me. "The kids
found it in the waste paper. They're selling them a dime a sheet
around the neighborhood."

"They're worth more than that," I said, regretting that Trlk and I
hadn't burned our rough drafts.

"You're going to move," Mr. Aldenrood said, "at the earliest possible
instant." His face was apoplectic. "I'm giving you notice right
now--thirty days!" He turned and went out, muttering, "The idea of
anybody committing to paper--" and slammed the door.

Two days later, I was seated at the typewriter, smoking a cigarette
and waiting for Trlk as he paced back and forth on the rug, tiny paws
clasped behind his back, talking to himself and working out a story
angle at the same time, when suddenly there appeared on the carpet
next to him a whole host of creatures just like him.

I nearly gulped down my cigarette.

Trlk let out a high-pitched screech of joy and ran over to them. They
wound their long tails around each other, clasped and unclasped them,
twined them together. It seemed a sort of greeting. Meanwhile, they
kept up a jabber that sounded like a 33-1/3 rpm record being played 78
rpm.

Finally, the biggest one detached himself from the group and gave Trlk
a tongue-lashing that would have done justice to a Phipps. Trlk hung
his head. Every time he tried to say something, the big one would
start in again.

       *       *       *       *       *

At length the leader turned to me. "My name is Brknk, pronounced
burk-neck and spelled b-r-k-n-k."

"And I'm Larry Weaver," I said, hoping they weren't relatives who were
going to stay. "That's pronounced Lar-ree--"

"I know. We're from Sybilla III. Tourists. We include Earth in our
itinerary. It has some of the quaintest customs of all the inhabited
planets we visit. We're terribly sorry for all the inconveniences our
wayward Trlk here has caused you."

"It was nothing," I said with a lightness I didn't feel.

"Trlk had threatened to run off many times. He has a craze for
self-expression and your literature fascinates him. He has an
insatiable thirst--"

"I know."

       *       *       *       *       *

He turned to Trlk. "It's against the rules of the Galactic Tours to
make yourself visible to any of the inhabitants along the way. You
know that. And it's a prime offense to interfere with their lives. Do
you realize how many rules you have broken, how long we have been
looking for you?"

"He did the best he could," I said hopefully. "As a matter of fact, we
were having considerable success with his--a literary project."

"I understand you lost your job because of him. Is that right?"

"Yes, but I encouraged him." I hoped there was some way I could ease
the sentence.

"Trlk has committed grievous wrongs, Mr. Weaver. We must make it up to
you."

"Oh?" Here was an angle I hadn't expected.

"What can we do for you?"

I considered a moment. "You mean a wish or something?"

Brknk laughed. "Nothing like that. We're not magicians."

"Well, I could stand a little cash."

"I'm sorry," he said, and did look pained. "We can't interfere in
business. We don't have any of your currency and we are forbidden to
duplicate or steal it."

He frowned and studied me. Suddenly his face brightened. He bawled
orders and several smaller Sybillians rushed forward and started
scampering all over me. One of them nipped a piece of flesh out of my
arm.

"Ouch!" I yelped, rubbing the spot. "What are you doing?"

"You humans are a proud race," Brknk explained. "I'll give you reason
to be prouder than the rest. We'll change your metabolism, your
endocrine balance, toughen your muscle fibers a thousandfold. We'll
make you the strongest man on Earth!"

"Look," I said, "I don't want to be the strongest man on Earth."

"Well, how about the world's champion boxer? We can speed up your
reflexes at least ten times."

I shook my head. "I don't want that, either. Sounds too much like
work. Besides, I never liked getting into fights."

Brknk scowled, called a huddle. They buzzed at each other, their tails
vibrating like mad. One of them finally yipped and everybody spun
around.

Brknk beamed. "We've got it!"

"What is it?"

A little Sybillian I hadn't noticed jabbed something in my arm. I
winced and he nearly fell off. He retreated with injured pride.

"Come along, Trlk," Brknk said.

"What's supposed to happen?" I asked.

"It will be a glorious surprise," Brknk assured me. "You'll never
regret it. The only thing I ask is that you never tell anyone about
us."

I promised.

Trlk looked up at me. I noticed the beginning of tears in his eyes. I
reached down and patted him gently on the head.

"So long, little fellow," I said. "It's been fun."

"Good-by," he said sorrowfully.

They vanished.

Nothing happened for several days, so I bought a copy of _Editor and
Publisher_ and was writing for my first job when I felt a tender spot
on my tail bone. When I examined it, I saw a protuberance there.

There was no denying it. The Sybillians had given me what they
treasured most.

I was growing a tail--a long, hairy tail.

As I say, I have come to like circus life.

At first I tried to get doctors to cut it off, but they were too
curious for that. Then I thought of jumping in the river or putting a
bullet through my head.

But after I saw what the scientists were making of it, when I viewed
my picture in all the papers, and when I saw the awe with which I was
regarded by everyone, I changed my mind.

Now I make a cool twenty-five thousand a year without lifting a
finger.

Just my tail.

I've become rather fond of it. I've even learned how to vibrate it.

But I've never told anyone about the Sybillians. They wouldn't believe
it.

Not old Phipps, anyway.

Some day I'll go and vibrate my tail right in his face. I'd never
amount to anything, eh? Let's see _him_ grow a tail!

                                                        --JERRY SOHL

       *       *       *       *       *







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Brknk's Bounty, by Gerald Allan Sohl

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BRKNK'S BOUNTY ***

***** This file should be named 31964.txt or 31964.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/9/6/31964/

Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
