The Project Gutenberg EBook of Feline Red, by Robert Sampson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Feline Red

Author: Robert Sampson

Release Date: April 12, 2010 [EBook #31970]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FELINE RED ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                             FELINE RED

                          By ROBERT SAMPSON


[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Planet Stories January
1954. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: _It was up to Jerill to think fast ... to do something ...
before those strange beasts sucked away the last purified ore on the
freighter Bertha._]


A shouting wave of men rioted through the engine room.

From the bridge above the hulking atomics, Chief Engineer Durval vollied
orders in a thunderous voice. "You men--you!" he raged. "Use your heads,
not your feet. Drive them toward the door."

A scattering of Them--compact darting beasts the color of a
poppy--scuttled into the shadow of an engine. Heavy Davison wrenches
clubbed futilely behind them.

As Durval flew into new bursts of shouting, Scott Jerill, First Mate of
the freighter _Bertha_, grimly shook his head. His lean face was not
smiling now. "Call your men back," he commanded crisply. "We don't have
time to drive those cats out like this."

Durval turned on him with a snarl. "Take over then. Think of a better
way. If you hadn't hauled that load of space cats aboard in the first
place...."

"Look out," Scott snapped.

With a crisp smack, a red creature the size of a man's hand struck the
rail before them. It was all improbable angles, with no special shape,
no front or back. It teetered crazily over the ten foot drop to the
floor below. Then it settled, sputtering. It sounded curiously like an
angry cat.

"There's one," roared Durval. His wrench slashed down, crashed shrilly
on the rail as the cat skimmed effortlessly away. The wrench shot off
toward the floor.

Durval shook his hand and roared. The cat, some twenty feet down the
rail, cackled insanely. As Scott stepped slowly toward it, the cat
hissed, bounded off the rail, and down the steps to the engine room
floor.

Scott shook his head. "You're not going to catch them by hand. Better
let them settle down, Durval."

"Settle down." The Chief brought the palm of his hand down on the rail.
The rail trembled. "They've already settled down. On every generator in
the place. One of them crawled under the main relay switch and shorted
out half the board. Didn't hurt him a bit."

Scott interrupted gruffly. "We've got to get them out of here fast.
Captain Elderburg wants to blast off here day after tomorrow, and we
don't have half the ore cargo purified yet."

"And you won't have," Durval snapped. "If we blast off, we'll do it with
an empty hold. I can't purify uranium with fifty cats running loose,
getting caught in the machinery. It can't be done. Get these cats out
and I'll give you a hold full of the best grade uranium Earth ever
bought. But not till you get those cats out."

Scowling, Scott bit his knuckles. "We've got to get moving. The skipper
thinks IP Metals is going to jump our claim," he said urgently.

"If you ask me, only a doddering fool would bring these things into a
space ship." He glanced sharply at Scott. "What's this about IPM?"

Scott shook his head slowly. "Nothing. Forget I said anything. But get
these cats out. And fast. Have you tried ultra-sonics on them?"

Durval's face slipped into new lines. "Maybe," he muttered. Leaning over
the railing, he thundered, "Masters. Forget those cats a minute. Yes,
forget them. Hook up an ultra-sonics sender and--"

The ship intercom over Durval's head clicked mechanically, hummed into
life. "Mr. Jerill. Report to Central Control. Mr. Jerill. Report--"

Scott jabbed the Acknowledgement button. As he swung around Durval he
glanced down into the engine room. Sweating men beat after the scuttling
red beasts.

"Report to me about the sonics," he told Durval. "If that doesn't work,
we'll scoop up those red kitties with our bare hands. But we got to get
started on that uranium ore purification. Faster than ten minutes ago."

He slammed the engine room door, cutting off Durval's angry roar.
Striding rapidly through the bluish light of the corridor, an anger
bitter as Durval's throbbed in him. But he took pains to hold it down.

"Confound those cats," he thought. "The _Kastil_ on top of us, and we
have to stop work to chase space fauna. And we have three days left.
Three days."

So engrossed was he in anger that he almost blundered head-on into the
grinning red-head who lounged up the corridor toward him.

"Hey, Scott." Second Mate Max Vaugn raised a lazy eyebrow. "Slow down.
Think of all your ulcers."

Scott spun impatiently on his heel. "Can't stop, Max. Got to see the
Captain."

"And you don't even stop to say hello to an old friend back from the
mines of a nameless asteroid." He grinned, slapped Scott's shoulder
lightly with an open palm. "What's all this scandal I hear about your
space cats?"

Scott grimaced. "I caught a few while we were scooping up ore over at my
pit. Thought the Extra-Terrestrial Life Division back on Earth might be
interested in them. They don't eat. They don't breathe.... Only their
cage got smashed open, and they got into the engine room. Nobody knows
how."

"The good news has got around," Max said grinning. "You don't know it,
but there's twenty more sitting outside the main cargo hatch right now.
What gets rid of them?"

"If you think of anything," Scott said as he turned away, "tell me. Got
to go. Elderburg's waiting."

"Have you tried hitting them with strong light?" Max shouted after him.

"No," Scott shouted back. He was very late, and the Old Man wanted you
fast when he wanted you. "Try light if you get a chance."

He broke into an effortless trot, his boots padding lightly on the
shining gray floor. "Three days," he thought. He forgot Max. He forgot
Durval and the cats. He thought, "Three days," and a fine film of
perspiration spread cold across his back.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We have three days," Captain Elderburg said. He was a small neat man
with a prim voice. His bland eyes peered forward into some middle
distance, ignoring Scott.

And Scott, sitting tautly in his chair, felt glad those eyes were not on
him.

"In three days," the Captain said, "or probably before, the _Kastil_
should find us. The _Kastil_--the best ship Inner-Planet Metals ever
commissioned."

Scott nodded. In the savage, free-for-all world of the space-miner, the
_Kastil_ was known as the big ship, the new ship. The ship that could
load its cargo hatches in a day, stuffing 100,000 tons of ore down in
its belly for the hungering plants of Earth.

"I've fought IP Metals for fifteen years," Elderburg said slowly. His
eyes were very far away. "For fifteen years they've grown bigger and
bigger, and the bigger they've got, the rougher they've played. You know
their record, Scott. Murder, claim-jumping. What they can't steal with a
blaster, they take by law."

Glancing through the open port behind the Captain's head, out into the
star-dappled dark of space, Scott asked: "Is there any way we can set up
a permanent claim here on this asteroid without going back to Earth?"

"You know better than that." Elderburg's eyes turned full on Scott.
"Unless we bring a full cargo of reasonably purified ore to Earth, we
can't lay claim to these mines, or to any other mineral rights here."

His hands closed neatly, one inside the other. "And we've got to get a
cargo back. This is our last chance. A strike as rich as this one will
keep us going for a long time. But if we lose this claim to IPM, the
days of the independent miner are over. Done with. We might as well sell
the _Bertha_ and get out."

"We'll be out of here in two days," Scott said eagerly. "If we...."

"If," said Elderburg very plainly. His eyes turned away from Scott and
his hands went all loose at once and spread out flat on the table.

"If we cannot load in two days, Mister Jerill. If your cats that you so
foolishly brought on board the _Bertha_ delay us so much that the
_Kastil_ locates us. And beats us home with a load of ore. If that
happens, Mister Jerill, I will see that you are black-listed from the
rolls of every space flight unit now operating. You will be completely
responsible for the failure of this cruise."

Slumping back in his seat, he grinned maliciously at Scott. "I realize
that our company was offering you a captain's position at the end of the
expedition...."

Scott stood up. Anger hammered powerfully at his temples. "All right. I
admit I made a mistake. And I take full responsibility for my actions."

"You must admit, Mister Jerill, that only a fool would bring an unknown
space beast into a ship."

"Only a fool would deny that the cats are as valuable as uranium in
their own way."

"Now, Mister Jerill. Be very careful." There was no mistaking the venom
in Elderburg's speech. In his passionless black eyes, viciousness lay
coiled. "Your cats have stopped purification of the crude ore for two
days. Two days, Mister Scott. We might have been Earth-bound by this
time."

Scott leaned over the desk. In a voice quivering with anger, he said:
"Listen to me. If you...."

There was a shocking blast of light. Stunning volumes of white light
poured from the port behind the Captain's head. It blazed too
brilliantly for the naked eye.

With a strangled exclamation, Scott stumbled for the port, clutching his
eyes. His fingers clawed nervelessly for the light control.

There was a sharp snap as the port closed. They felt, rather than saw,
the light flick abruptly out. Elderburg tore at the door.

They lurched into the corridor. Green-yellow lights flashed before their
dazzled eyes. Scott located the wall and began to run, using his finger
tips as guides.

"A magnesium flare!" The Captain's words drove at Scott, hard as
fragments of metal. "What fool set off a magnesium flare with the
_Kastil_ on top of us?"

They stumbled through the cool corridor to the second level air lock. As
they approached, the lock clanged open. A space-suited figure waddled
into the corridor. The helmet opened back, revealing the vivid red hair
of Second Mate Vaugn.

"Light don't bother those cats a bit," he announced. Then his grin
faded. "What's the matter?"

The Captain croaked, "You set off a flare--when--when the _Kastil_ has
been hunting our claim for weeks. When they're right on top of us!"

Max's face blanched. "The _Kastil_! Scott, you never told me...." Sudden
cunning swept his face. "Why didn't you tell me the _Kastil_ was so
close, Scott? Why did you tell me to try light on the cats when you
knew--"

"Scott told you!" Elderburg snarled. But at that moment Scott cried out
sharply, pointing out through the port by the air lock.

Two miles beyond the _Bertha_, settled a black cigar. Blue-white fire
flared from its base. "The _Kastil_!" Scott gasped. Useless rage flooded
his chest. "The _Kastil_--and she's found us!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Under the hurtling jet, the surface of the asteroid was a jagged tangle
of stone. Scott, staring tensely from the observation port, felt a swift
moment of wonder. Two hours since the IPM ship had landed. And he was in
trouble with a vengeance.

As he had left the ship with a party of picked men, he had felt
Elderburg's cold eyes on him. Eyes that thought--and threatened.

It was easy enough to read the Old Man's mind. An officer might make one
vital mistake. But not two--not introducing the cats into the ship; not
permitting a flare to be set off. Unless....

Unless he wanted the _Bertha_ to lose time. Unless he wanted the
_Kastil_ to find the precious claim.

Cold raced through Scott's veins. His hands locked white about the space
helmet he was about to don. He had to prove his loyalty. Had to prove
that the accidents were accidents. And little time was left, as the
_Kastil_ could load completely in two days.

"There's the pit, Mister Jerill." The navigator's voice was strained.
"See anybody?"

"Not yet. Set her down."

The cargo jet dipped. The vast peaks of shattered stone sped up at them
with terrifying speed. Scott refrained from closing his eyes, saw the
razor-toothed surface of this shattered world streak toward him. Ahead,
the bulk of the _Kastil_ loomed. They must have used the ore pits as a
landing marker, he thought. And--what was that?

Motion at the lip of the ore pit.

The jet grounded hissing on the burnt landing strip. "Watch it," Scott
warned. "We got visitors out there."

There was an ugly muttering among the men. As Scott threw open the cargo
doors and dropped to the rocky ground, he saw the crewmen checking
blasters and the slender polonium tubes that could permanently blind a
man.

He stepped away from the jet. And as he did so, seven men detached
themselves from the shadows about the mine's edge, and strolled toward
him. Seven men--two more than were with Scott. The odds might be worse,
he thought with a sense of relief.

Cautiously, he loosened the blaster in his belt. They were tricky
weapons to handle in space gloves, but he'd better be ready to use it
fast.

"Party from the _Bertha_?" The words came thin and metallic into Scott's
helmet.

"Right," he grunted. "You?"

"From the _Kastil_. Who gave you a clearance to land on our claim?"

"We have a prior claim on this pit," Scott flared. "We have it posted
and registered. If you're going to mine, find someplace else."

A giant figure, grimly grotesque in a cumbersome vacuum suit, swaggered
forward. "I don't see any of your claim posts."

Scott indicated a tall metal stake glittering somberly in the glare of
the jet's loading lights.

The tall man laughed easily, his voice thin and far away in Scott's
helmet. "Think of a better story. We just dug that claimer in ourselves.
Now suppose you people jet out of here. Ought to be plenty of good
claims someplace else."

Scott scarcely heard the sudden bitter burst of protest from his men.
His body felt light and cool. The blaster pressed hard against his side.
"There are plenty of good claims," he said. "You better go find them."

He swung the blaster up in a single smooth motion.

The tall man stood very still. They were not close enough to see each
other's faces.

Then, high on a plateau of stone above the tall man's head, Scott saw
the stars blot out.

"Scatter!" As he shouted, he took a giant leap to the right.

A blast of energy seared from the darkness, gouging a vast hole where
Scott had stood.

From behind a boulder he could see the fire of the blaster sweep across
the upper edges of the rocks, just at the level where the stars were cut
off.

For a moment, the cold green line of his fire flicked harmlessly over
naked stone. Then a thick squirt of fire flared quickly. A still-born
scream died in his earphones.

The men of the _Kastil_ had dodged away into the darkness.

Scott's voice rang out harshly. "I'll give you men two minutes to
organize and get out of here. If you're not out by that time, we'll spin
our jet around and burn you out."

There was a brief stir off in the shadows.

"You're in a blind alley there," Scott continued. "There's no way out.
And we'll blast any man who tries to climb out over the rocks. Is that
clear?"

A glowing flash of energy exploded against the rock protecting him.
There was no sound, but bits of stone lightly flecked his suit. Scott
braced himself on the rough face of the boulder and worked the blaster
around for an open shot.

"No more shooting," the heavy voice of the tall man growled. "You
_Bertha_ people. Can you hear me?"

"Yes," Scott said coldly. His eyes probed the shadows for motion.

"We're willing to be peaceful about this. I'm Captain Randell of the
_Kastil_. There's no need for killing when there's plenty of ore for all
of us."

"Not in this pit," Scott answered. "You have one minute."

"All right." Randell's voice, distorted as it was by the tiny radio,
carried a sardonic edge. "We'll go--from here."

He sauntered out of the shadows, hands upraised. From the tangle of
stone, his men crept out to join him. Without haste, insolent in their
retreat, they crossed over the pit.

At the far side they paused. "This is the extent of your so-called
claim." Randell's voice purred in their ears. "Our claim extends from
this line. And if a man from the _Bertha_ wants a quick blasting, he can
cross this line." His radio snapped off with crisp finality.

Scott stepped from his shelter.

"All right," he ordered. "You men know the story. The _Kastil's_ down
here ready for work. And it's going to mean work if we're going to beat
her back to Earth. Now, let's go. But watch your step."

      *       *       *       *       *

They worked. Eighteen hours a day they worked. From the steel-like
ground they scooped a dozen tons of the dirty black uranium ore and sent
it hurtling back to the _Bertha_.

But in spite of all their efforts, the more modern equipment of the
_Kastil_ overtook them in a day. The blackness on their left was riddled
with the flare of digging torches and the slender fire-trails of the
jets soaring between the pit and the _Kastil_.

And now and again, Randell's drawling voice broke into Scott's ears.
"You're slowing up, _Bertha_. Seventy tons for us today. Are you poor
little men getting tired?" He clucked sympathetically, then burst into a
yell of laughter. "We'll have the ore cleaned off this rock before you
get half loaded."

But Scott and the men of the _Bertha_ worked silently, with savage
haste, forgetting sleep and food to keep the tonnage flowing to their
ship. They had almost forgotten the cats....

But not for long.

Staggering with fatigue, Scott swayed into Central Control, and sagged
into a seat. He had been too long in a space suit. A dull pounding beat
behind his eyes. "I came as soon as you called the pit, Captain
Elderburg. You sounded pretty urgent."

"It's urgent," Elderburg said. "We're beaten."

Scott stiffened. Fatigue fell from him as he gazed closely at the
Captain, saw for the first time the bitter dullness of Elderburg's eyes.

"You better come with me," the Old Man said heavily. He rose stiffly,
led the way from the room.

In silence they shuffled down the corridor toward the engine room. A tic
worked at the corner of the Captain's mouth, but he did not seem to
notice it. "Durval held the cats off with ultra-sonics. He purified
about ten tons of the stuff and stored it."

They threaded their way along a chill black catwalk to the center of the
ship. In the engine room, men slumped sullenly among the big atomics. As
Scott and Elderburg passed a group of the black gang, mutely dangling
wrenches, there was a sudden stir.

"That's him!" One of the men had leaped up. The wrench whipped back over
his shoulder. He leaped raging toward Scott. "There's the rotten...."

"Easy, Billy." He was dragged back, disarmed.

"How'd the _Kastil_ know...."

The Captain tugged Scott's arm. "Don't bother with them. Come on."

Scott nodded numbly, followed, his head aching and a nameless wave of
apprehension sliding through him. "Where are the cats?" he asked once.

Elderburg ignored him. "Put on a radiation suit."

They had stopped before a side door of the main hold. As Scott struggled
into the suit his mind swirled in a chaos of thoughts. When the suit was
adjusted he dropped the helmet shut and stepped forward. Through the
lighter gravity of the air lock they lumbered. Then Elderburg spun the
controls that opened the door.

"There you are," he said to Scott. He sounded completely deflated. No
sting remained in his voice.

Scott stepped forward into the hold, then froze. His body went cold.

The hold was a writhing mass of cats.

Their queer angled bodies darted in a great pile beyond the door. Their
red bodies glowed and twisted strangely. They flew about a huge stack of
lead containers--uranium cells secured for the long trip home.

And Scott went sick with understanding. Through rigid lips, he forced
the words: "Energy-eaters!"

The Captain laughed oddly. "And you wondered how they lived on this
naked rock. They ate the raw ore, of course. No wonder they hung around
Durval's machines sucking up what free energy they could. They broke
through the air feeder system here. No wonder. With cells of 80% pure
uranium waiting for them." His voice broke.

"So we're finished," he continued. "The _Kastil_ will be loaded before
we can even clean the cats out. We're done."

He swayed back against the bulkhead. Scott took his arm.

"Get away from me." Elderburg wrenched away, his loathing clear even
behind the bulky suit. "If what the men say is true. If you sold us
out--" His voice trailed off. "Call your men out of the pits, Jerill.
We're blasting off tonight."

"No." Scott leaned forward, his eyes mere slits behind the lense of his
helmet. "Is there any uranium left?"

"We saved two cells."

"It's enough," Scott snapped. His lean jaw lifted proudly. "It's a
little late, Captain. But I can promise to get rid of the cats in two
hours. With the ore deposits Vaugn and I have collected, we can still
load a good cargo and beat the _Kastil_ out by at least a day."

Elderburg eyed him sharply. "How can you handle the cats?"

"Get me a lead-lined box about eight feet by...."

Static blasted shrilly in their ears. The voice of the ship's lookout,
strained with excitement, shouted. "Captain Elderburg. This is Main
Control. Get here fast. An explosion at Lieutenant Jerill's mine."

As Elderburg leaped for the door with a muffled roar, the lookout's
voice tautened. "No. No. Not an explosion. It's the _Kastil_. They're
attacking the mine. They're attacking the mine."

       *       *       *       *       *

They crammed into the observation blister on the _Bertha's_ nose.
Scanners swept smoothly over the wilderness of stone jutting up between
the ship and the mine.

"There's a fire fight going out there." Elderburg's square face knotted
with anger. "Scott, take a party. Blow that livid scum crew off this
rock."

"Right, sir!" Scott bolted from the observation port. The emergency
alarm howled through the ship. He buckled on a pair of blasters with
unsteady hands, a black fury sweeping him. He stabbed one long finger
down on the intercom.

"Masters," he yelled. "Get the cargo jet ready. With full battle
equipment."

"Right, lieutenant. What's up?"

"Piracy." He spun toward the door. Then jolted to a halt, hands balling
at his sides.

A picture was forming on the Master Communication Screen.

Elderburg pounded to his side. "Who is it?"

The picture on the screen was very definite now--a swarthy giant of a
man, cynically grinning down at them. "Gentlemen," the figure on the
screen said, and Scott needed no further introduction.

It was Randell, master of the ship _Kastil_.

"We've had a very entertaining two days," Randell said. His thick hands
rubbed easily together. "It's been a real pleasure watching you work.
But I'm afraid the pleasure is over. We're leaving you now. Oh, that
disturbance at your mine pit?" He laughed, but only with his mouth; the
close-set eyes remained unchanging, watchful. "It seemed so unnecessary
to bother mining ore when so much of it was stacked near our pit."

"You bloody murdering bandit," Elderburg thundered. "We'll blast
you...."

"You'll blast nobody. Any party approaching the _Kastil_ will get
blasted. Any party near the claim--our claim--will get burned down. By
the way, I'm afraid your men at the mine contracted space-sickness, or
something. They seem to be dead. You needn't bother coming after them."

He began to chuckle. "I think the ore my men are bringing in now will
just complete our cargo. See you back on Earth."

The screen went gray. The sound shut off with a loud click.

Elderburg swung on Scott. "Take your men. Clean out that nest of thieves
before they remove any more ore. Order out full battle gear. We'll blast
the _Kastil_ apart if it takes every man on board this ship."

"No!" Scott caught Elderburg's shoulder, gripped him. "There isn't time
for an armed attack. I have a better idea."

"Scott, I order you to...."

"Get me a box," Scott cried desperately. "Made of lead and six feet
deep."

Elderburg jerked his shoulder free. His face contorted. "Get to your
cabin, Jerill. You're under arrest."

"Captain Elderburg, listen to me. We can...."

"That's a direct order. Go to your cabin." He whirled away from Scott,
slammed down the intercom lever. "Attention all hands. Prepare full
battle equipment...."

Scott slashed his blaster hard across the back of the Captain's head.
Elderburg staggered, clutched the back of the seat. Scott hit him again.
Elderburg's legs went loose. He toppled face forward, struck the
intercom and sagged to the floor.

Scott stepped to the intercom. "Attention. All men, prepare full battle
equipment and stand by. Stand by. Durval, get the largest lead-lined box
you have and set it outside the entrance of the main cargo hatch. Shake
it up. We have half an hour till the _Kastil_ jets off."

He cut off the intercom, lugged Elderburg to the chart room and locked
him inside.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hold was beastly hot. Standing inside the hatchway, holding
suspended over his head a three-foot long cell of uranium ore, Scott
felt a moment of shuddering panic. Over the storage cells along the
wall, over the tumbling bodies of the cats, an eerie glow quivered--the
menacing flare of radio-activity.

Scott glanced nervously at the forward screen. Chief Durval waved toward
him. "Your men ready, Durval?"

The Chief nodded. "Don't go getting yourself hurt now, Scott."

Scott grinned although he did not feel much like grinning.

He shuffled forward under the light gravity of the hold. The uranium
cell balanced easily in his hands. Too easily. He could scarcely feel it
press against his gloves. The heat control in his suit was jammed again.
His hands streamed sweat.

He inched past the cats. A quick cold thrill passed through his stomach.
With the energy of the ore almost gone, the scarlet beasts were growing
increasingly uneasy. They were casting about for a new supply. It would
be easy enough for a foot to slip, he thought. To spill the ore across
the floor. New food for the cats--and the loss of the _Bertha's_ last
chance as strange space beasts sucked away the last purified ore.

He slipped cautiously past the last row of cells. A quick dash now for
the open hatchway beyond....

Half a dozen of the bounding red beasts surged about his feet. Their
weight drove his right leg forward. He staggered, caught at his balance.
The lead cell above his head began to slip.

"Watch it, Scott!" Durval's voice cracked in his ears.

Straining every muscle against the queer weightlessness of no gravity,
Scott struggled to regain his balance. He expected another blow at his
legs as the cats leaped for the ore. It was hard to breathe the
over-heated air of his suit.

But the cats had spun away. As he caught his balance, he stared after
them, uncomprehending for an instant. The cats ran twisting in a somehow
sinister dance. The bodies were queerly bloated. Down the upper portion
of their bodies ran a heavy indentation. As they leaped and twisted, the
indentation became a fissure, a crevice.

Then two of the beasts leaped, slammed together in mid-air. But more
than two cats fell to the floor.

Their sharply angled bodies whisking back toward the depleted uranium
cells, four cats appeared with shocking suddenness.

Reproduction. Elemental fission.

Scott had to clean them out, and fast. Soon the ship would be overrun
with the energy-hungry felines.

He dashed toward the open hatch. Outside the opening, a great lead box,
eight feet by eight feet, gaped upward. Beyond, four men tensely
supported a vast lead cover.

"Is the uranium poured into the box?" he barked sharply.

"Yes, sir. All ready, Mister Jerill."

"Good." Turning from the hatch, he inverted his cell, poured out the
uranium ore in a thick stream from the open hatch back across the hold
toward the scrambling mass of cats upon the now empty rows of cells.

But he never reached the beasts.

A brawling torrent of animals leaped toward him. Hurling the container
into their mass, he leaped to one side. They lunged into the trail of
ore. Rolled, leaped, darted along the line. At the hatch edge, a
pyramiding mass of cats paused a moment. Then plummeted over. Scott fell
back against the bulkhead, his eyes fixed on the cats still scavenging
among the empty cells.

Then these too were darting for the trail of ore. The uranium was
scattered now. Cats plunged toward the new radiation in the box beyond
the hold entrance.

The inarticulate cheers of Durval and his men rang in Scott's helmet.
But his mind was already working at the next step of the problem.

"Durval," he ordered. "Get a decontamination unit in here. Clean this
place out." Cats poured in a frenzied stream from the ship. "Call Mister
Vaugn. Start purification of his ore as soon as it arrives."

Past the hatch, he saw the swift flash of the lead top dropping over the
box. Excitement pounded hotly in his throat.

"I'm going to get rid of these cats once and for all," he called. "Be
back in an hour."

"But what about the _Kastil_?"

"We'll worry about the _Kastil_ later. Get that ore purified. We're
blasting out of here in forty hours."

He swung from the cargo entrance to the top of the lead box. Under his
feet, the lid trembled with the frantic struggling of the cats. "Load
this crate in the cargo jet," he cried. "And hurry. We only have half an
hour left."

       *       *       *       *       *

The pounding of the jets matched the pounding of the blood in Scott's
temples. "When we land," he instructed, "get this crate out fast.
Everything depends on how fast you can take the cats down to the pit. I
want you to bury it as fast as you can. Understand?"

He glanced sharply about the group, feeling their eyes clinging to him.

"Get as much rubbish on the crate as possible. And then obey every order
I give you as fast as possible no matter how foolish the order may
seem."

The jet thundered down over the landing strip, rasped to a halt. "Out,"
roared Scott. "Fast. Make it fast."

The loading compartment swung open. But as the men lifted the crate
toward the door, the jet's intercom burst into life. "Jerill. Jerill,
this is Captain Elderburg. I order you to return at once."

Elderburg had freed himself too quickly.

"This is a criminal offense, Jerill. Come back at once."

"Get that crate out," Scott roared. "Hurry. Hurry!"

"Mister Jerill," blared the intercom. "You are under arrest, according
to the Articles of Space, for conspiracy, armed assault...." Scott cut
the voice off in mid-sentence. He leaped into the hold, threw his weight
behind the box. "Quick. Get it to the pit."

The men lumbered off into the darkness. Even with the light gravity of
the asteroid, it was difficult to handle the crate as the scrambling
cats pitched it from side to side.

Scott scaled a boulder. The hulk of the _Kastil_ loomed just beyond,
dark and threatening. A thin square of light showed at their cargo
entrance. They were still completing loading.

"Hurry," Scott muttered feverishly. "Hurry."

The men reached the pit. Carefully, slowly, they lowered the crate into
the shadows.

Sweat streaming down his face, Scott tore his eyes from the _Kastil_
hatch, grimly watched as his men scooped rubbish into the pit.

A motion in the darkness. Out where no motion should be. Movement among
the sunless stones.

Scott's breathing stopped.

A group of men closing in toward the cargo jet. Men racing out of the
shadows. Men of the _Kastil_.

"Stop," Scott shouted frantically into his radio. "Get that crate back
to the jet. Get it out of the pit. Back to the jet. It's too late.
Hurry. Hurry!"

For a single astounded moment the men paused. Then, sweeping the rubble
from the crate, they fumbled it toward the surface of the pit.

Scott leaped down among them. Pushed. "They're going to trap us." The
crate struck on the pit's edge. Scott seized one end, forced it up over.
"Grab that other end, Masters. Move, man. Don't argue. Move!"

Staggering over the uneven ground, they lurched toward the jet.

"I think you ought to rest for a moment." It was the cool voice of
Randell, who stepped from the darkness with a blaster turned full on
them.

Crewmen from the _Kastil_ poured from among the rocks. Their blasters
swung a menacing ring about Scott and his men.

"Step back away from the crate." Randell stepped forward, tapped his
blaster against the side of the box. "Now what do we have here."

"Keep away from that," Scott snarled. "That's property of the _Bertha_."

"Is it?" Randell turned carelessly to his men. "Property of the
_Bertha_," he drawled. "Well, we'd better have a look at it now. To make
sure you haven't accidentally salvaged some of the _Kastil's_ equipment.
Oh, quite by accident, I understand."

He began to loosen the screw-clamps of the lid.

"Stop!" Scott leaped forward, no longer conscious of the weapons
swinging on him. He dropped his hand upon the box.

"This is mine," he said. "I forbid you to touch it."

"Have you ever seen a man die of a blaster bolt?" Randell asked. "Step
back."

The men of the _Bertha_ fell back. Their shoulders touched the toothed
rim of stone about the pit.

Randell chuckled. "Perhaps it's just as well we didn't blast off when we
were loaded. There was always a chance you'd found something else of
value here."

He flicked the muzzle of the blaster about. "If you don't mind, we'll
inspect this crate in a better light. Back at the _Kastil_."

Triumph leaped through Scott. "This is piracy," he said, and sounded
sincere.

"Piracy is what is proven," Randell laughed. "Do you really think you
have a case in our courts?" He sighed softly. "Now, thank you for this
unexpected pleasure. And good-bye. We'll see each other again on Earth,
perhaps."

Then they were gone and immediately afterward, the _Kastil_, balancing
on a white line of flame, leaped away from the asteroid and flashed out
past the stars.

Scott stared after it, a faint smile touching his lips. About him rang
the triumphant laughter of the crew.

Someone gripped Scott's shoulder. "Captain Elderburg on the intercom,
Mister Scott. I just told him. And--congratulations, sir."

Scott grinned. Entering the jet, he faced the intercom, said: "It's over
now, Captain."

"Good work, Mister Scott." Elderburg's voice was unsteady. "How did you
do it?"

"Pretended to be taking something of value," Scott said. He relaxed back
against the seat. "I knew Randell couldn't resist making a clean sweep
of everything we had. So I gave him the chance."

Elderburg's laugh filled the cabin. "And when they open the crate...."

"Good-bye uranium." Pale eyes smiling, Scott waved a knotted fist. "And
now, sir, we're going to start mining ore. This is our claim now. And
we'll be blasting out of here in forty hours with the biggest load of
uranium ore Earth ever got its hands on."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Feline Red, by Robert Sampson

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FELINE RED ***

***** This file should be named 31970.txt or 31970.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/9/7/31970/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
