The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Enormous Room, by 
Horace Leonard Gold and Robert Wilson Krepps

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Enormous Room

Author: Horace Leonard Gold
        Robert Wilson Krepps

Release Date: April 25, 2010 [EBook #32128]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ENORMOUS ROOM ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                          THE ENORMOUS ROOM

                    BY H. L. GOLD & ROBERT KREPPS

[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Amazing Stories
Oct.-Nov. 1953. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the
U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

     _One big name per story is usually considered to be sufficient. So
     when two of them appear in one by-line, it can certainly be called
     a scoop; so that's what we'll call it. H. L. Gold and
     science-fiction go together like a blonde and a henna rinse. Robert
     Krepps is also big time. You may know him also under his other
     label--Geoff St. Reynard, but a Krepps by any name can write as
     well._

       *       *       *       *       *

The roller coaster's string of cars, looking shopworn in their flaky
blue and orange paint, crept toward the top of the incline, the
ratcheted lift chain clanking with weary patience. In the front seat, a
young couple held hands and prepared to scream. Two cars back, a heavy,
round-shouldered, black-mustached man with a swarthy skin clenched his
hands on the rail before him. A thin blond fellow with a briefcase on
his lap glanced back and down at the receding platform, as though trying
to spot a friend he had left behind. Behind him was a Negro youth,
sitting relaxed with one lean foot on the seat; he looked as bored as
someone who'd taken a thousand coaster rides in a summer and expected to
take ten thousand more.

In the last car, a tall broad man put his elbows on the backboard and
stared at the sky without any particular expression on his lined face.

The chain carried its load to the peak and relinquished it to the force
of gravity. The riders had a glimpse of the sprawling amusement park
spread out below them like a collection of gaudy toys on the floor of a
playroom; then the coaster was roaring and thundering down into the
hollow of the first big dip.

Everyone but the Negro boy and the tall man yelled. These two looked
detached--without emotion--as though they wouldn't have cared if the
train of cars went off the tracks.

The cars didn't go off the tracks. The people did.

The orange-blue rolling stock hit the bottom, slammed around a turn and
shot upward again, the wind of its passage whistling boisterously. But
by then there were none to hear the wind, to feel the gust of it in
watered eyes or open shouting mouths. The cars were empty.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Is this what happens to _everybody_ who takes a ride on the coaster?"
asked a bewildered voice with a slight Mexican accent. "_Santos_," it
continued, "to think I have waited so many years for this!"

"What is it?" said a woman. "Was there an accident? Where are we?"

"I don't know, dear. Maybe we jumped the tracks. But it certainly
doesn't look like a hospital."

John Summersby opened his eyes. The last voice had told the truth: the
room didn't look like a hospital. It didn't look like anything that he
could think of offhand.

It was about living-room size, with flat yellow walls and a gray
ceiling. There was a quantity of musty-smelling straw on the floor. Four
tree trunks from which the branches had been lopped were planted solidly
in that floor, which felt hard and a little warm on Summersby's back.
Near the roof was a round silver rod, running from wall to wall; over in
a corner was a large shallow box filled with something, he saw as he
slowly stood up, that might have been sand. An old automobile tire lay
in the straw nearby, and a green bird-bath sort of thing held water that
splashed from a tiny fountain in its center. Five other people, four men
and a woman, were standing or sitting on the floor.

"If it was a hospital, we'd be hurt," said a thin yellow-haired man with
a briefcase under one arm. "I'm all right. Feel as good as I ever did."

Several men prodded themselves experimentally, and one began to take his
own pulse. Summersby stretched and blinked his eyes; they felt gummy, as
though he'd been asleep a long time, but his mouth wasn't cottony, so he
figured the blacked-out interval must have been fairly short.

"Where's the door?" asked the woman.

Everyone stared around the room except Summersby, who went to the
fountain, scooped up a palmful of water, and drank it. It was rather
warm, with no chemical taste.

"There isn't any door," said a Negro boy. "Hey, there isn't a door at
all!"

"There must be a door," said the heavy man with the accent.

Several of them ran to the walls. "Here's something," said the blond
man, pushing with his fingertips. "Looks like a sliding panel, but it
won't budge. We never came in through anything _that_ small, anyway." He
looked over at Summersby. "You didn't, at least. I guess they could have
slid me through it."

"They?" said the woman in a piercing voice. "Who are they?"

"Yes," said the heavy man, looking at the blond man accusingly, "who put
us here?"

"Don't ask me," said the blond man. He looked at a watch, held it to his
ear, and Summersby saw him actually go pale, as at a terrible shock. "My
God," he gasped, "what day is this?"

"Tuesday," said the Negro.

"That's right. We got on the coaster about eleven Tuesday morning. It's
three o'clock Thursday!" His voice was flat and astonished as he held up
the watch. "Two days," he said, winding it. "This thing's almost run
down."

"How do you know it's Thursday?" asked Summersby.

"This is a chronograph, High-pockets," said the blond man.

"Calvin, we've been kidnapped!" the woman said shrilly, clutching at a
man who must be her husband or boy friend.

"No, no, dear. How could they do it on a roller coaster?"

"_Maria y José!_" said the Mexican. "Then for two days that idiot relief
man has had charge of my chili stand! It'll go to hell!"

"Our things at the hotel," the woman said, "all my new clothes and the
marriage license."

"They'll be all right, dear."

"And where's my bag?"

The blond man stooped and picked up a leather handbag from the straw.
"This it?" She took it and rummaged inside before she said, "Thank you."

"I don't like all this," said the Negro boy. "Where are we? I got to get
back to my job. Where's the door?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Come on," said the man with the briefcase shortly, "let's get out of
here and find out what's what." He was going along the wall, pushing and
rapping it. "How did they cop us, that's what I'd like to know. All I
remember is hitting the bottom of that big dip, and then I was waking up
in here." He stopped, then said sharply, "I hear something moving. My
God! It sounds as big as an elephant."

Then the wall began to glide noiselessly and smoothly to the left, and
he scuttled back to the knot of them, looking over his shoulder.

The entire wall slid sideways and vanished, leaving an open end to the
room through which Summersby could see a number of large structures that
seemed to be machinery, painted various colors. There was no sign of
movement. He wondered, in a quiet, detached way, what sort of people
might be out there.

"It sounded big," said the blond man again, and looked up at Summersby.

"I am six feet five," said Summersby bleakly. "Whoever it is will have
to go some to top me."

       *       *       *       *       *

An unknown thing moved beyond the room with a brief shuffling sound and
then a hand came in through the open end. It was on an arm with a wrist
the thickness of Summersby's biceps, an arm two yards long with no
indication that it might not be even longer. The hand itself was a foot
and a half broad, with a prehensile thumb at either side. Summersby did
not notice how many fingers it had. The backs of the fingers and the
whole great arm were covered with a thick gray-black thatch of coarse
hair, and the naked palm was gun-metal gray. Between one thumb and
finger it held a long green rod that was tipped by an ivory-colored
ball.

There was no sign of anyone looking in, only the incredible arm and
hand.

[Illustration]

The others cried out and drew together. Summersby stood still, watching
the hand. It poked the stick forward in short jabs, once just missing
his head. Then it made a wide sweep and the stick collided with the fat
Mexican. He squealed, and at once the hand shot forward, exposing still
more of the thick arm, and prodded him away from the group. He skipped
toward a far corner, but the stick had him now and was tapping him
relentlessly toward the open end.

"_Amigos!_" he yelled, his voice full of anguish. "_Por favor_, save
me!"

"Go along with it peaceably," advised the Negro youth frightenedly.
"Don't get it annoyed." He was shaking and his glasses kept sliding down
his sweaty nose so that he had to push them up continually.

"What is it?" the woman was asking, over and over.

The Mexican was driven to the edge of the room. The place beyond seemed
to be much larger than their prison. He waved his hands despairingly.

"Now, quick, you have only a _momentito_ to save me! Don't _stand_
there!"

The stick touched him and he jumped as if he had been shocked. The wall
began to slide into place again.

"Let's rush it," said the man with the briefcase suddenly.

"Why?" asked Summersby. The wall closed and they were alone, staring at
one another.

       *       *       *       *       *

"There wasn't anything we could do," the Negro said. "It happened too
quick. But if it comes in again we better fight it." He looked around,
plainly expecting to be contradicted. "We can't get split up like this."

"Possibly one of us can suggest something," said the husband. He was a
sober-looking man of about twenty-eight or thirty, with a face veneered
by stubborn patience. "We should make a real try at escape."

"We know where the door is, at least," said the blond man. He went to
the sliding wall and threw his weight obliquely against it. "Give me a
hand here, will you, big fellow?"

"You won't move it that way," said Summersby. He sat down on the
automobile tire, which seemed to have been chewed on by some large
animal. "It's probably electrically operated."

"We can try, can't we?"

Summersby did not answer. In one corner, six feet off the floor, was a
thing he had not noticed before, a network of silver strands like an
enormous spider's web or a cat's cradle. He stared at it, but after the
first moment he did not actually see it. He was thinking of the forest,
and wishing dully that he might have died there.

The woman spoke sharply, intruding on his detachment; he hoped someone
would sit on her. "Will you please _do_ something, Calvin! We must get
out of this place."

"Where are we, anyway?" asked the Negro boy, who looked about nineteen,
a tall, well-built youth with beautiful hands. "How'd they get us here?
And what was that thing that took the Mex?"

"It doesn't matter where we are," snapped the woman.

"Yes, it does, ma'am," said the youth. "We got to know how they brought
us here before we can escape."

"The hell we do," said the blond man. "We can't guess our location until
we get out. I think you're right about the door," he told Summersby.
"There isn't any lock to it you could reach from inside. The mechanism
for sliding and locking must be inside the wall itself. Nothing short of
a torch will get through to it." He came over to Summersby. "We'll have
to gimmick it next time it opens."

"With what?" asked the woman's husband.

"Something small, so it won't be noticed."

"Your briefcase?" suggested the husband, who had a hard New England
twang.

"No, chum," said the blond man, "not my briefcase."

"Hey, look," said the Negro. "What happened, anyway? I remember the
coaster hitting the dip and then nothing, no wind or motion, until I
woke up here. And it's two days later."

"I lost consciousness at the same place," said the New Englander.

"Something was done to knock us out," said the blond man. "Then we must
have been taken off the cars at the end of the ride, and brought here."
He rubbed his chin, which was stubbled with almost invisible whiskers.
"That's impossible, on the face of it," he went on, "but it must be the
truth." He grinned; it was the first time Summersby had seen any of them
smile. "Unless I'm in a hatch," he said.

"Are we in South America? Or Africa?" asked the Negro.

"Why?"

"That hand!"

"Yeah," said the blond man, "that never grew on anything American." The
colored boy looked at him, ready to take offence. "Could it be a freak
gorilla?"

"That size and with two thumbs?" asked the boy. "And what would it be
doing roaming around loose?"

"Could it be a machine?" asked the husband. "A robot?" His wife
screamed, and Summersby got up and went over to the door, getting as far
as possible from them. His stomach was a hard ball of hunger, and he
wished he were a thousand miles away. Anywhere.

"That hand was alive," said the Negro. "I never saw anything like it in
biology, but I'd sure love to dissect it. Did you see those two thumbs?
I don't know any animal that has two thumbs."

"Would you come over, sir?" called the New Englander. Summersby realized
he was talking to him. "We must plan a course of action." Reluctantly
Summersby joined them. "My name is Calvin Full, sir, and this is Mrs.
Full."

Summersby took his hand; it was dry and had a preciseness about its grip
that irritated him. "John Summersby."

"I'm a milk inspector. My wife and I were on our honeymoon," said Full.
"I work through the southern portions of Vermont; that's in the New York
milk shed, you know."

"I didn't know. I'm a forest ranger," said Summersby. Retired, he
thought bitterly, pensioned off to die with a rotten heart. They
couldn't even let a man die on the job, in the woods.

"My work," said Calvin Full, "consists of watching for unsanitary and
unsterile practices, making tuberculin tests, and so forth. I'm afraid
I'm not much good at this sort of emergency."

His wife, who had been looking as if she would scream again, turned to
him. Her almost-pretty face, cleared of fright, was swept by pride.
"You're as brave as the next man, Calvin, and as clever. You'll get us
home."

"I hope so, dear. But Mr. Summersby must be a great deal more used to
problems of this sort."

They all gaped up at him expectantly. Because of his size, of course; he
was the big born leader! "Sir" in trouble, "High-pockets" when things
were clear again. The hell with them. He kept his mouth shut.

The blond man said, "I'm Tom Watkins."

"Adam Pierce," said the Negro.

"What do you do, Adam?"

The boy pushed his glasses up on his nose again, frowning. "I go to
C.C.N.Y. Summers, I'm the Wild Man from Zululand in the sideshow, and I
shill for the coaster when I'm not on duty. It helps out my family some,
for me to be making money in the summers."

"Are you taking subjects that might help us?" asked Full.

"I major in English. I'm going to teach it when I graduate. Then I take
psych, biology, the usual courses."

"Hmm," said Watkins, looking at the end of the room through which the
Mexican had been taken. "Psych and biology. Could be some use here."

"What we need is a locksmith," said Summersby. He felt himself
unwillingly drawn into the group, sharing their problems that were not
his, and it angered him. He fished out a bent pack of cigarettes, lit
one and was about to put the rest away.

"Nothing but a torch would help. I know a little about locks myself."
Watkins grinned genially. "I'm out of smokes," he said, and Summersby
gave him the pack. He took one and passed it to Full, who declined. Adam
took one. The boy reached up and pushed at his glasses again; a look of
irritation appeared on his face. "Say," he muttered, "is this room a
little wobbly, or is it my eyes?"

"Wobbly?"

"Wavy. See how those tree trunks are blurred?"

"You need your glasses changed, Adam," said Watkins.

"No, sir." Adam took them off and started to polish them on a
handkerchief; then his brown eyes opened wide. "I can see!" he said. The
others stared at him. "My astigmatism's gone! My glasses make everything
blur, but I can see plain as noon without 'em. Look, I've had
astigmatism since I was a kid!"

"What happened?" asked the woman, addressing her husband. "How could
that be, Calvin?"

"Don't know, dear."

"My headache is gone," she said. "I never realized it till this boy
mentioned his eyes."

"Mrs. Full has suffered from an almost constant headache for years,"
said Calvin, and sniffed twice. "My post-nasal drip is missing, too. Do
you suppose my sinus trouble is cleared up?"

"That's what must have been happening those two days we were out," said
Watkins, knocking ash from his cigarette. "We were put through a
hospital or something. I feel good, even if I'm damned hungry."

Summersby looked from one to another, detesting them; against his will,
against sanity and decency that fought for recognition, he detested
them. He had a heart for which there was no help, a heart no two-day
period of miraculous cures could touch. Their puny ailments had been
relieved, but he was still at the slow, listless task of dying.

"Listen," said Watkins jubilantly, "whoever or whatever brought us here,
it's a cinch they don't mean to harm us. They wouldn't mend us if they
were going to hurt us, would they?"

"In two days," said Adam, nodding hard. "Two days! How could they do
it?"

There was an air of near-gaiety about them that repelled Summersby. In a
desperate rebellion against these boons handed out to everyone but
himself, he tried to hurt them. "What do you do to a duck before you
cook it? Clean it. Think that over."

Adam Pierce looked at him levelly. "No, sir. If that duck has sinus
trouble or bad eyes, you don't have to fix that up before you eat it.
No, sir."

"What about the Mexican?" Summersby asked. "What's happened to him?"

Then the wall slid open again and they all started forward; Summersby
looked after them bitterly, feeling the resentment drain out and leave
only the old hopelessness, the apathetic disregard of everything but
death.



II

Porfirio Villa had known from the first that this adventure of his was a
mistake. His wife had told him to stay off the roller coaster, but he
had sneered. What could happen? The people always got off again,
laughing and wiping their brows. He had the bad burn on his left hand,
caused by an accidental smacking of the steam table in a rage at his
fool of a helper;--that idiot who now had had charge of the stand for
two days! _lodo feo!_--and so, enforced to a vacation, he must step into
the cars and go crawling up that terrible incline, giggling nervously,
and then rush madly down the other side. Dreaming is better than doing;
he should have stayed in his chili stand and dreamed of the ride.

_Por Dios!_ What a terror the rising, what a discomfort the drop, what a
fearful thing the disappearance of the park and the awakening in this
place ... this place a man could not believe in, though he stood upon
its floor and gazed round-eyed, with sweating lips and shaking hands,
upon its size, its devices for unknown purposes, its impossible
inhabitant!

The thing was twelve feet tall. Was it a machine? He had seen machines
in the _revistas_ and the cinema, looking much like this one, a clumsy
copy of a man moving, speaking, tearing people to pieces. There was also
King Kong, who resembled this thing.

If it was not alive, it moved very creditably. The gray-furred legs were
long and thin, placed on the sides of the body at the waist; the arms,
much thicker than the legs, swung very low, and must be fully eight feet
long. It was backing from him slowly, holding out one hand--six fingers
and two thumbs, _demonio!_--with the green stick. That stick stung like
a bee when it touched you.

The monster was already a good distance away. Porfirio cast his eyes
slyly to one side, the other. There was a complication of machinery so
great that even a teacher of mechanics would be dismayed.

There! A hole between two pink walls. He glanced once at the thing,
standing now with its impossible face turned down to him, and then he
ran for the hole.

It was after him with a short cry, but he reached the hole and scuttled
through. Four paths faced him. What a time for decisions! He took the
left-hand path, went round several turns, came to two more openings. The
pink walls were smooth and featureless, well over his head so that he
could not tell where he was. He ran like the mouse in the game next to
his chili stand, the game in which suckers bet on which escape--the red,
green, blue or white--the mouse would choose. Paths opened and Porfirio
plunged on, losing his sense of direction, becoming more terrified as he
went. His famished guts dragged him down, made him a weak frightened
mouse indeed.

He panted past two doorways and abruptly, like the flashing of a
pigeon's wing, the greenstick shot down before him, held in that
monstrous gray hand!

The stick appeared and disappeared, herding him, chivvying him from
place to place, all places looking alike, till finally the great room
lay again before his eyes. Whimpering, he stepped out of the pink maze
and leaned against the wall, his chest and belly heaving. He was done.
Let it murder him. A man could not run forever.

The brute stood over him. Cautiously it brought its face down to peer.
Its eyes were set in deep pits, there was a hole between them, and far
below in the watermelon-shaped head, a mouth like a man's with lips the
color of rust on iron.

Panting, he gazed at it, then flung up one arm in a futile blow that
fell short by two feet. The thing was angering him. Let it watch out for
itself!

A hand, unnoticed, had crept round behind him and now took him by the
back of the shirt, belt, and trousers, and lifted him off the floor. He
regretted the useless punch. Now he would be dead.

The monster inspected him, prodding aside his bedraggled collar points
and digging gently at his belly with the rod, which did not sting him
this time. It made a sound from its mouth like the last weak bellow of a
dying _toro_--"Mmwaa gnaa!" then set him down once more with a thump
that jolted his teeth, nearly fractured his ankles.

_Maria y José_, but it moved as fast as a lizard's tongue! Escape was
beyond hope.

It backed away from him, stood by a huge box and gestured with the green
stick. It wanted him to come. He walked toward it. The box was enormous,
oblong, like a huge shoe box. Only when he had come to it did he realize
it was the room in which he had awakened earlier.

In this hall it was lost. Untouched by the monster, he looked at the
hall with seeing eyes for the first time. It had yellow walls and a gray
roof, like the box. He clapped a hand to his head. Like a theater
without seats! Over ten varas high, thirty broad and forty long: or he
should say, being a man of the States now for many years, roughly thirty
feet by seventy-five by a hundred. Scattered here and there in
staggering confusion were the machines, the gadgets, the unknown things.
All colors he had ever seen were there. It was gaudy as the amusement
park, but slicker and more fresh-looking.

The creature laid a hand on the box, and the wall began to slide open.
He looked up, and it gestured, telling him as plainly as words to go in.
He was to enter again. It seemed as happy a thing to him as the breaking
of a Christmas piñata.

He braced himself now. _He_ had emerged, while _they_ had cowered
behind, refusing him aid. Worms that they were, he would show them the
bearing of a hero, one who had braved mysterious dangers while all
others trembled. He sucked in his belly, threw forward his chest, placed
his fists carefully on his hips and strutted into the strawed room,
turning his head proudly from side to side. He heard the wall close
behind him.

The worms came crowding to him.

"What is it? What happened?"

Porfirio Villa, adventurer, laughed. The relief that washed through him
was making him shake, his empty stomach still heaved after the panic,
but from somewhere in his soul he dredged up the casual laugh. "Very
little happened," he said. "Truly very little of interest."



III

Mrs. Full sat on the straw, twisting her hands together. She did not
know she was doing it until she had to disentangle them to pull her
skirt lower on her folded legs, and then she deliberately put one hand
flat on the floor so that she would not appear to be nervous. She wanted
Calvin to be as proud of her in this terrible crisis as she was of him.

But Calvin was calm, at any rate; so she was impatiently proud of him.

"We've got to slam something into that opening next time the wall slides
back," said Watkins. She nodded at him approvingly. There was a man who
might be of some help.

"What do you think these creatures are, Mr. Watkins?" she asked quietly,
though she felt like screeching the question.

"I haven't the least idea, ma'am."

"Freak gorillas," said Calvin.

"No, sir," said Adam. "I've been thinking. Wasn't the Java Ape Man about
nine feet tall?"

"Five and a half's more like it," said Watkins. "At least that's how I
remember it."

"Well, _some_ fossil man was nine feet tall," said Adam dogmatically.
"Couldn't that thing be one of them? There's plenty of places in the
world where a race of people or animals could have developed without
Homo sapiens being any the wiser. Now suppose they got hold of us?"

"How?" asked Calvin.

"Through people working for 'em. We might all have been doped and put on
a plane and we might be on an island somewhere now, or in the middle of
a jungle, with these whatcha-may-call-'ems."

"How were we doped?" persisted Calvin.

"Gosh, I don't know that!"

"And what the devil do they want with us?" asked Watkins.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Full did not hear what Adam said. She was wondering, with a cold
horror, if the creatures were near enough human to desire white girls
as--as mates. "Calvin, we've got to get home!" she cried.

"We will, dear." He patted her shoulder. "Don't you worry."

"Someone has to worry."

"We all are, ma'am," said the pleasant Watkins. "Except you, I guess,
Summersby," he added accusingly.

Summersby stared at him, seemed about to speak, then looked away. She
was afraid of this great man. He might be a lunatic, with that lined,
tormented face.

"We might be in the East Indies somewhere," said Adam thoughtfully. "A
plane could get us there from New York in a lot less than two days."

"Where are these East Indies?" asked Villa. Mrs. Full wished he would
stop rubbing his stomach that way. It reminded her that she was very
hungry.

"Someplace near Siam," said Adam vaguely. "Question is, if we're there,
or anyplace else for that matter, _why_ are we?"

A number of reasons shot through Mrs. Full's mind, all of them too
fantastic to suggest aloud. They might be potential mates for these
incredible animals, or slaves, or food, or.... She was surprised at
herself for thinking of such things; one would suppose she had been
reared on a diet of sensational thrillers.

She rose and walked aside, ostensibly studying the green fountain (which
augmented her suffering with its tinkling splash). "Oh, Calvin," she
said.

He came over to her. "Yes, dear?"

"Calvin, I--" she halted unable to phrase her question. But he did it
for her.

"I've been thinking: if there are--certain basic needs--I mean, if you
find it necessary to--"

"I do, Calvin," she said gratefully.

"Oh. Well, there is the, hmm, sand box. I believe it's meant for such,
ah, purposes."

"Calvin! In front of you, in front of these strangers?" She was shocked,
and put up one hand to push nervously at her hair, which felt untidy.

"We'll ask them to turn their backs. After all, such things must be
attended to."

"I'd rather die," she said, but not at all certainly.

"There are sacrifices to be made in this predicament, and modesty is
one," he clipped out. "Er, gentlemen."

Watkins said, "I know, it just hit me too."

"What?"

"I've got to go to the john."

"Yes," said Calvin stiffly. "I suggest we retire to the farther end from
the sand box, while one by one--"

"We could rig a screen or something, but there isn't anything to do it
with," said Watkins. He walked away; despite his outspoken manner, he
seemed to have the proper instincts.

Adam followed him. Summersby turned his back. Calvin looked at the
Mexican. "Come along."

"Why?" asked Villa, raising his black brows. "What is there in a simple
relieving of--"

Calvin strode to him, catching him by the nape, lifted him bodily from
the floor, and sent him reeling after the others. He half-turned, then
walked on, muttering, "Crazy _gringos_!" Calvin went and stood a little
behind the others, his back to her.

[Illustration]

The minutes following were interminable, horribly embarrassing. At last
she touched his shoulder. "All right, Calvin," she whispered.

One by one the others used the sand box. By the time they were through
with the unspeakably primitive ritual, she had become almost inured to
it, and considered herself to be admirably calm. There were unsuspected
resources in her nature, she thought.

"When do you suppose they feed us?" asked Watkins. He was holding his
tan briefcase under his left arm; he hadn't once laid it down. "I'm so
empty I rattle."

"Soon," said Calvin firmly, and she felt reassured.

Summersby was standing by the door-wall, his great hands working along
the seams of his trouser legs. A violent temper, held in check, thought
Mrs. Full. He was the worst of the problems facing them, except for the
unknown animals.

Even as she looked at him, the wall opened again. This time no one
jumped or shrieked, though she felt her breath hiss back over her
tongue. Watkins said, "Well, Viva, here's your pal again."

The Mexican glared. Evidently the joke was a stale one to him. "My name
is Villa, not Viva. I hope you get a good taste of that green stick, you
little man!"

"Viva Villa," said Watkins. "Lead on. You know the way."

The awful arm came in like a hairy python, groping blindly with the rod.

Summersby, standing near the opening, was the first to be touched. It
tapped him lightly, and he walked out of the room, really very bravely,
she thought. The rod discovered Adam. The boy backed up, too frightened
to put on a show of boldness. The rod slapped him impatiently, and he
yelled and darted forward into the other room. He and Summersby stood
together, staring up at something that could not be seen from inside the
prison box.

"It's electrical," said Calvin. "Like a bull prod."

"Yes, dear," she said automatically.

"We may as well go out. I don't want you shocked."

"All right, Calvin." She took his arm. Watkins had been caught and
herded out. As they stepped forward after him, she glanced sideways at
her husband. She would have liked to tell him she loved him, but it
would have been too melodramatic. She pressed his arm tightly,
affectionately. They walked out into the great hall.

       *       *       *       *       *

Villa's cursory description had not prepared Calvin Full for the reality
of the huge beings.

There were three of them. They stood absolutely motionless, grotesquely
humanoid figures with smallish, sunken eyes fixed rigidly on the people
some yards away. Then, as Calvin watched, two of them thrust out their
hands holding the ball-tipped rods. The gestures were almost too swift
to follow.

He stared at the central figure, and it gazed back with its withdrawn,
pupilless, rust-red eyes. Its head was, as Villa had told them, the
shape of a watermelon, with the eyes wide-set on either side of a gently
agitating orifice that was probably a nostril. The mouth, very human in
shape, with full lips the color of the eyeballs, was quite low in the
face. There was a rough growth of gray-black hair on the crown of the
big head and a fuzz of it, less dark, on the face itself. There seemed
to be no ears.

Its body, long and thick, was dwarfed by the tremendous arms. Its feet
were large, toeless, and flat; its legs joined smoothly to the trunk
about halfway up. It wore clothing of a sort, which surprised Calvin
Full, perhaps more than anything else about the being. There was a kind
of short sleeveless jacket of amber color caught at the front by a long
silver bar, and a white skirt worn under the legs, reaching from just
below the hip joints to the bottom of the torso.

Its companions were almost identical with it, except for clothing of
different hues and varying cut.

The thing in the middle now opened its mouth and made a noise that
reminded Full of an off-key clarinet.

"Gpwk?" it said, with a rising inflection. "Hummr gpwk?"

Abruptly it came forward, its motions flowing and yet a bit jerky, its
long legs carrying it rhythmically, but with a hint of gawkiness; Calvin
thought of a galloping giraffe he and his wife had seen in a travelogue
some nights before. It towered over them, bending at the hip joints.

"Steady, dear," he said.

"I'm all right," his wife said shakily, seeming just on the verge of
screaming.

"Wish I could say the same," said Adam Pierce, the Negro boy. "What a
specimen!"

"Look like anything to you?" asked Watkins.

"Hell, no. Unless it's something from Mars."

"Maybe we're on Mars," said Watkins conversationally, but no one
responded.

       *       *       *       *       *

It's as sensible a suggestion as the East Indian one, thought Calvin. He
had not the slightest idea where they were, and he saw no sense in
worrying over it until they had more information to build theories on.

The beast making no further move, his wife at last leaned toward him and
said in his ear, "Calvin, can you tell what--I mean whether it's male or
female?"

He studied it carefully. He couldn't even make a guess. He shook his
head.

Then it reached forward its stick and thrust it directly at Calvin's
face. He backed off, startled and somewhat frightened. At once the thing
touched Mrs. Full with the ivory ball, as if to separate her from the
knot of men.

She cried out in pain, and Calvin leaped forward; he had a flash of the
great paw coming at him with the prod aimed for his face again. It
touched his forehead, he felt an intense shock, and then he was
powerless to move.

His mind screamed, he could feel tiny muscles try sluggishly to crawl
deep under his skin, but he was paralyzed where he stood in an attitude
of charging; he knew his face must be twisted in horror and rage, but he
could feel nothing. Only his mind and eyesight seemed wholly clear.

He saw his wife taken off, stumbling unwillingly and looking back at him
over her shoulder. Watkins said, (Calvin could hear plainly, he found),
"Watch it, he's falling!" Then the paralysis left him and he slumped as
though all his bones had been extracted. Someone caught him under the
arms, holding him up. He tried to move, but aside from rolling his eyes
and lolling his tongue out, he was helpless.

Summersby, behind him, said, "Are his eyes open?"

"Yeah." Watkin's face appeared before him. "Poor guy looks half dead."

Calvin blinked and made a try at speech, but nothing came out but a
flop-tongued drooling sound.

The two creatures remaining near them squatted down and observed them,
making fragmentary noises to each other. Watkins started to walk after
the third, which had escorted Mrs. Full across the wide room and was on
the point of making her get onto a low platform on which were a number
of structures of purple tubing and crimson boxes and varicolored small
contrivances. One of the pair flicked its goad across his path.

Villa said, "Come back, you foolish, do you think you can take that
stick?" He sounded furious, probably because he was afraid of the beasts
becoming enraged.

Calvin made a wracking effort to say, "Let him go," for surely they
couldn't stand callously by and see his wife undergo the Lord knew what
tortures; but the sound he made was unintelligible.

Watkins said, "Blast it, Viva, we don't know what the thing might do to
her."

"Come on back," said Summersby. "Do you want to get this?" He hefted the
limp Full.

Calvin writhed and managed to move his hands up and down.

"He's gaining," said Watkins, coming back.

"Those rods pack a wallop," said Adam. "What sort of power can they have
in 'em? Seems to me they're away beyond our science."

"They're not hitched to batteries," said Watkins. "Say, look at all this
machinery. If these animals built it, they're a pretty advanced race."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Full was seated now on a large thing like a chrome-and-rubber
chair, one of those modern abominations which she and Calvin so
cordially detested. He could not see her face. The twelve-foot brute was
moving its fingers before her, evidently telling her to do something.
Calvin heard her say plaintively, "But what _is_ it?"

Summersby hoisted him up and about then feeling began to come back to
him with a sharp, unpleasant tingling of the skin. He said, "Help her!"
quite distinctly.

"Nothing's happening to her," said Watkins. "Take it easy."

Mrs. Full was apparently pulling levers and moving blocks of vividly
colored material back and forth on rods; like an abacus, thought her
husband.

Suddenly one of the other pair of creatures gave a cry, "Brrm hmmr!" and
pointed to the left. From a muddle of gear rose a small airship, orange,
with a nose like a spaceship and streamlined fins, and a square box on
its tail. It made no noise, but rose straight toward the ceiling, moving
slowly, jerkily.

His wife had her back to it. He heard her give an exasperated,
bewildered cry. "What on earth ... what are you _doing_?" She spoke to
the creature as if it understood. "I don't see why you--"

Calvin pushed free of Summersby. He could stand now, shakily. The beast
indicated a blue block on a vertical bar; Mrs. Full moved it down, the
airship halted and began to sail toward them. "Do you see the toy ship?"
called Calvin. "You're flying the ship!"

"Oh, my," she said helplessly. "What shall I do now?"

"This is crazy," said Watkins. "Absolutely crazy."

"Go on moving things," Calvin called to his wife. "Experiment. It wants
you to fly it." It occurred to him that this was too obvious to bother
stating. He must be distracted by weakness. He rubbed his tingling arms
and hands, hoping she wouldn't crash the ship. Villa and Adam Pierce
were calling encouragement to her as the orange thing drifted up and
down and sideways.

Now the twelve-foot being gestured briefly at a portion of the
apparatus, Mrs. Full caught his meaning and moved something, and the
ship tilted and flew along the wall without touching it. All three of
the creatures uttered sounds that might be taken for words of pleasure.

"Good girl!" yelled Watkins. "Keep it up!"

She turned to them and Calvin saw she was smiling. "There's really
nothing to it," she said. The airship bumped into the wall and fell. The
animal above her squawked and pressed down a lever, which evidently sent
out a beam or impulse that caught the ship in midair and held it
suspended. Then it grasped Mrs. Full and carried her, flailing her
limbs, over to the corner.

Calvin started forward, apprehensive.

"Hold it, Cal, you don't want another shock." Watkins took his arm.

The creature kicked aside a mound of small gadgets, sending them
helter-skelter, picked up what looked like a big five-legged stool and
set it on its feet. It was perhaps ten feet high. Then he deposited Mrs.
Full on its smooth round top and turned her bodily so that she faced the
wall.

"Help her!" snapped Calvin.

"We can't do a damn thing."

"Just wait a minute, sir," said Adam. "He's leaving her alone. I don't
think he'll hurt her."

She twisted her head around, looking frightened. Her legs hung over the
edge. The being strode back with its curious gawky-graceful walk, and
firmly turned her face to the wall again, using one big rubbery finger.
"Oh!" she said, in a small voice, and remained staring at the wall, like
a naughty child on a dunce's stool. The beast came over to the group.

       *       *       *       *       *

The three talked among themselves, glancing at the men. The airship hung
on its invisible beam of energy, ignored. Mrs. Full patted up her hair.
She must be terrified, thought Calvin.

The three came to them, their skirts swishing like taffeta. They
knelt--it was an odd movement, their high-hipped legs angling to the
sides, their bodies slanting forward as their heads dropped toward the
humans--and stared at one and then another. The one who was evidently
the leader put out his green goad, but slowly, as if showing no harm was
intended, and pushed at Calvin's jacket. The ivory ball touched his
chest but no shock followed. The thing made noises, perhaps comparing
his clothing with its own.

"Take it off, Cal," said Watkins.

"Why?"

"He'd like to see it. Be friendly."

"That's it," agreed Adam, "be friendly."

He removed his jacket and handed it to the brute, who received it
dubiously, fingered it, exhibited it to the other two, and dropped it.
Calvin bent to pick it up; the goad barred his way. Two large fingers
plucked at his trousers. He felt himself flush with outrage.

"No!"

Watkins chuckled. "I'll bet you will."

"Don't make it mad," said Adam.

"I won't take my trousers off."

"If we took them off, it might soothe this monster," suggested Villa.
"Let us throw him down and take off his pants."

"Try it," said Calvin. The Mexican started toward him. Then the creature
had lifted him high in the air, peering closely at the trousers. It
tugged at them. "Ouch!" said Calvin. The beast would tear them off; the
humiliation of that would be worse than removing them himself. It might
rip them to shreds. He loosened his belt and unbuttoned and unzipped
just in time; they came off over his shoes and were held up in front of
the sunken red eyes. Calvin was set down, carefully enough, and the
garment was handed to the other monstrosities. Calvin cast a look at the
stool. He was glad his wife was not witnessing his shame.

"Nice shorts," said Villa.

Full whirled on him, angry enough to bark out an insult, even an oath,
but the man was evidently sincere in his praise.

"Thank you," he said stiffly.

His trousers were thrown to him and he shoved his feet into them and
secured them once more. He put on his jacket.

One of the beasts which had not taken an active part in the business now
walked to Mrs. Full and picked her up by the back of the waist, as
though she had been a cat, and brought her over. For one ghastly moment
Calvin thought it was going to divest her of her skirt, but after
scrutinizing her a while, it set her down among them.

He took her hand. "Are you all right, dear?"

She was amazingly calm. "I am, Calvin, I am. I don't believe they mean
us any harm, after all."

The first great animal pointed at the box, waving his prod.

"We're supposed to go in again, I guess," said Watkins.

"Let's go, then," said Adam. "No sense in getting shocked."

They trooped in, and the wall closed behind them.



IV

Adam Pierce had an idea. It had begun to grow in his mind while the
woman was running the miniature spaceship, but he had thought it over
until he was certain it wasn't so silly as to make them laugh at him.
Now he felt sure he'd hit on the truth; too many evidences for it, and
nothing much that he could see against it.

"I have an idea," he said.

"To get out?" asked the woman.

"No, ma'am. I think I know where we are."

"Where?" asked everyone, except the big man, Summersby, who was sitting
on the tire looking away from them.

"In a lab! This is a laboratory, and those big things are some kind of
scientists!"

"You could be right," said Watkins reluctantly. "My God, what a spot, if
you're right!"

"Sure. That's why we were snatched off the coaster, however it happened.
They wanted to experiment on us, and study us. They got this lab
someplace where it's secret, and they make tests--"

"There was a contrivance like a milking machine," said Full.

"You don't know _what_ it's used for," said Adam darkly. He imagined it
might be an especially nasty way of picking over a man's brains or body.
"Look, it all fits. That stool, that's a funny way to punish a person,
but all their stuff is a little cockeyed."

"By our standards," added Watkins.

"That's what I meant. Look, you punish a guinea pig when it does
something wrong, if you're trying to teach it some trick or other; I
mean, suppose you want to determine its intelligence, you give it a
problem, and if it does the thing wrong it gets a shock, maybe, or a bat
on the nose. That stool was punishment. If you hadn't crashed the
rocket," he said to Mrs. Full, "it might have given you a reward."

"Maybe some food," said Villa.

"Here's another angle," said Watkins, who obviously knew something about
lab work. "They may be trying to give us neuroses. Scientists induce
neuroses in all kinds of critters, by punishment and complex problems
and--"

"What is that?" asked Villa.

"Neuroses?" Watkins rubbed his chin. "Well, say they want to make an
animal nervous, anxious, worried." Villa nodded.

"You mean they might be trying to drive us mad?" said the woman in a
high scared voice.

"I doubt it," said Calvin Full.

"They might be," said Watkins.

"Then let's get out of here," said his wife. She went trotting to the
wall. "Didn't anyone shove a barrier into this?"

"I forgot," said Full. She gave him a dirty look.

"Anyway," Adam went on, "that could explain why we were fixed up before
they woke us--it was like quarantine. They wouldn't want sick animals."

"Who was fixed up how?" asked the Mexican suspiciously.

"My astigmatism," he said to Villa, "and this gentleman's sinus trouble,
and his wife's headache."

"And they pulled a rotten wisdom tooth for me," said Watkins. "I just
discovered it a minute ago. Hole's healed up neatly."

Villa was peeling away the bandage on his hand. Now he gave a glad
shout. "_Madre de Dios!_ Look, the burn has gone!" He showed them his
hand. "Tuesday, a terrible scorched place; today, behold, it is well!"

The woman said, "You know, this _might_ be a laboratory. When I taught
kindergarten we had simple tests for the children that were somewhat
like that remote control apparatus."

       *       *       *       *       *

Watkins pushed the big man, Summersby, on the shoulder. "I wish you'd
get into this," he said irritably. "We need all the brains we have to
get out."

Summersby looked at him. "You think we'll get out?" he asked.

"Why not?"

"Why?" Summersby sounded tired, and as if his mind was a long way off.
"If these are scientists, they'll keep a fairly close watch on their lab
animals."

"You're a forest ranger, man. Don't you have to meet emergencies all the
time?" Watkins was exasperated. Adam thought, I wouldn't talk to the big
fellow that way; he looks as wild as a panther.

"I'm sorry," said Summersby, turning away again. "I don't think we can
escape, or plan to, until we have more information."

"You needn't inflict your morbidity on us," said Full. "Because you're a
defeatist is no reason for us to be."

Summersby stood up. He looked as tall to Adam as one of the monsters.
"If we're guinea pigs, we'll end up as guinea pigs," he said. "And what
do experimenters do with guinea pigs, finally? They infect or dissect
them. Now leave me alone!" He walked to the farthest corner and sat down
on the straw, staring at his feet.

Adam reached up automatically to push at his glasses, found them
missing, and was confused for an instant. Then he said, "There's a
thought. We better bust out as quick as we can."

"Summersby won't help," said Watkins. "Anybody else feel fatalistic
about this mess?"

"I must get back to my chili stand," said Villa. "And my wife," he
added.

"Adam, you're nearer to college courses than I am," said Watkins. Adam
nodded. "How many places in the world are there, big enough and
unexplored enough to hide a race of giants like these?"

"I guess parts of Africa and South America, maybe the Arctic, some
islands. I don't really know."

"Neither do I."

"Perhaps we aren't on the earth at all," said Mrs. Full. They all looked
at her. "I read a book once in which a party of people discovered a land
beneath the earth's surface," she went on, actually blushing a little.
"It was a trashy sort of book, but--but I thought possibly there might
be something in the idea."

"There might," said her husband.

"Wherever we are, we've got to get out of this box before we do anything
else," said Adam. He felt panicky, as the realization sank into him of
what they might be in for, in this alien lab, under the care of
scientists that looked more like apes than anything.

"Look!" shouted Villa. Adam whirled and saw the small panel, that
Watkins had discovered earlier, just sliding open. A large platter came
through, heaped with what looked like a collection of junk. The huge
hand which had pushed it in withdrew, the panel slipping shut after it.
Villa was the first to reach the platter. "_Santos_," he muttered.
"_Santos y santas!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

The platter was two feet square, of sky-blue plastic, and on it lay
seven pies, several dozen cupcakes, a double handful of macaroon
cookies, and a quantity of glass shards. Some of the pies were upside
down.

"What on earth...." said Mrs. Full.

"Looks like the contents of a bakery window," said Watkins, leaning over
with his briefcase clamped to his thin chest. "Window and all, I might
add."

Villa picked up a custard pie. It had been smeared up by rough handling
but it looked good to Adam. He chose one for himself, and Watkins handed
Mrs. Full an apple pie. She thanked him. They all took tentative bites.

"What do you make of this?" Watkins asked Summersby, still trying to
drag him into their group. The big man shrugged. "The glass," went on
the blond fellow, "that doesn't make sense. Do they think we eat glass?"

"Possibly," said Calvin Full.

Among the six of them, they consumed all the eatable contents of the
tray. Almost immediately Adam felt his eyelids drooping. "I'm sleepy,"
he said, yawning.

"So am I," said Villa. He lay prone and closed his eyes at once.

Adam sat down, more heavily than he had meant to. He was vaguely
disturbed by the sudden tiredness.

"Someone ought to stand guard," said Mrs. Full.

"I will," said Summersby unexpectedly.

"I'll do it," said Watkins. He started to pace up and down. "I'm a
little groggy myself, but I'll take first trick."



V

When they were let out of their prison box next morning--nine o'clock
Friday, by the chronograph, and they had slept another fifteen
hours--there were five of the gigantic beast-creatures waiting for them.
Any hopes that Tom Watkins had had of rooting around the big hall for a
way of escape died with a dejected grunt. There must be well over a ton
of enemies there, with their caverned red eyes peering down at the
humans. No chance to explore under those gazes.

The boss of the alien scientists--Watkins recognized it, or him (or was
it her?), by the clothing and by certain differences in facial
structure--came and bent over them. Watkins was smoking a cigarette he
had bummed from Villa, Summersby's having given out the day before. He
took a hearty drag and blew out the smoke, which unfortunately lifted
right into the creature's eyes. It shook its head and made a squawking
sound, "Hwrak!" and flipped its green prodder into his belly. He
abruptly sat down, with the sensation of having stuck his finger into a
lamp socket. "My God!" he said. Cal helped him up.

Summersby walked off toward a twenty-foot-high door. None of the beings
tried to stop him. The boss motioned Watkins to go with it, so he rather
shakily followed it across the room.

Before him was a gadget that resembled a five-manual organ console. The
banks of keys were broad and there was a kind of chair, or stool, fixed
on a horizontal bar in front of them. The giant indicated that he was to
get onto it.

"Now what?" he said, when he had been stopped directly in front of the
apparatus. "Expect me to play this? Look, Buster, I'm tone deaf, I
haven't had my coffee yet, and I'd just as soon dance a polka as play
you a tune."

The thing pressed down two of the keys--they were of an amethyst color,
longer and more tapered than those of an organ--and looked at Watkins.

"Drop dead," he said to it. He was always bitterly antagonistic to
everything and everybody if he didn't have three cups of coffee before
he got out of bed. "Go on, you big ape, make me play."

It hit him on the head with a couple of its big rubbery fingers. He felt
as if a cop had sloshed him with a blackjack, and all the hostility went
out of him. He leaned forward and pushed down half a dozen keys at
random.

There was no sound, at least none that he could hear, though he
remembered the whistle he had at home to call his dog, and wondered if
the notes of this organ were sub- or supersonic. Certainly there was no
reason to suppose this race of creatures was limited to the same range
of hearing that humans were.

The thing went down the hall some yards and folded itself into a sitting
position before a large white space on the wall. When Watkins did
nothing, it gestured angrily with its goad. He pressed more keys. It
jerked its head around and stared at the white space.

Accidentally he discovered that by pressing with his calves on certain
pedals below the stool he could maneuver the seat to either side. The
gadget began to intrigue him.

He had never played any musical instrument, but had always had a quiet
desire to produce music. He couldn't hear this organ's sounds, but he
could go through the motions with fervor. He did.

The boss scientist gazed raptly at the wall screen; was it concentrating
on what he played? Did his random selection of keys indicate something
to it, something about his mental powers or emotions or--what?

Or was it possible that the playing produced images or colors on the
blank space? He craned his neck, but could distinguish nothing. Pounding
on, he called over his shoulder, "Come here, somebody!"

No one answered. Pushing keys at random, he turned to look for them.
Each of them was doing something under the supervision of a twelve-foot
beast, except for Summersby, who was still examining the door. "Hey,
High-pockets!" he yelled, knowing the big man hated the nickname, but
not giving a damn. "Summersby! Come here!"

"What is it?" said Summersby in a moment, standing below his seat.

"Take a squint at that screen the old boy's gaping at. I want to know
what the devil I'm doing."

Summersby walked over and stood beside the scientist.

"What's happening?"

"Nothing."

"Nothing at all?"

"Well, the screen's mottled gray and white, and the pattern's swirling
slowly; but that's all."

"Is it particularly beautiful?" asked Watkins.

"No. It's hardly distinguishable."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sliding right and left on the bar, striking first one and then another
of the manuals, Watkins said to Summersby, "What do you figure these
scientists are, anyway?"

"Mammals," said the big man.

"I suppose so--"

"They have navels. They weren't hatched."

"Oh." Watkins hadn't noticed that. "Where are we, then?"

"I don't know."

Another scientist wandered over and sat down beside the first. Shortly
they seemed to get in each other's way, and there was a lot of shoving
and squawking. At last one of them hit the other in the face with an
open hand. Then they were rolling on the floor, snatching at one
another's hair and pummeling the big bodies and heads with those
gargantuan fists. It sounded like a brawl between elephants. Watkins
swiveled round to watch. Mrs. Full said to someone--Watkins heard her
distinctly in a lull in the ruckus--"If these are scientists, what are
the common people like?" For the first time that day he grinned. He had
stopped playing the organ. The other scientists had gathered around the
fight and were uttering strange cries, like wild geese honking. Cheering
them on? he wondered.

Adam came over. "Mr. Watkins," he said, "could we have been wrong about
them? Do you think a scientist would act like that?"

"They sure seem to be a quarrelsome race, Adam," he said, "they're not
noticing what we do. Suppose you go look for a way out."

"We want to get away as soon as we can," nodded the boy. "Dangerous
around here!" He ran down the hall.

The giants arose and straightened their clothing. They had patched up
their argument in the midst of fighting over it. The leader walked
toward a tall device of pipes and boards and steps, motioning Mrs. Full
to follow.

Apparently Watkins had been forgotten. He took his briefcase off his
lap, where he had held it all the time he played, and dropped it to the
floor. Then he hung by his hands and let go. He picked up the case and
went to investigate the room.

Before he had done more than glimpse the enormous door, he was picked up
kitten-fashion by a scientist, who carried him off, dangling and
swearing, to another infernal machine.

For a couple of hours they were put through paces, all of them;
sometimes one man would be working a gadget while all the scientists and
humans watched him, at other periods they would each be hard at work
doing something the result of which they had no conception of.

       *       *       *       *       *

Several of the machines could be figured: the pink maze, one or two
others; and Watkins had at least a theory on the organ. The sleek
modernistic machinery which directed the airship was plain enough. There
were certain designs and arrangements to follow that flew it up and down
the room. They were hard to memorize but Mrs. Full and the somber
ranger, Summersby, became adept at them.

Then there were the others....

There was a remote control device that played "music," weird haunting
all-but-harmonies that sounded worst when the creatures appeared most
pleased, and earned the punishment stool or a brutal cuffing for the
operator when he did manage to produce something resembling a tune.
Evidently bearing a relation to this was the sharp slap Adam got when he
started to sing "The Whiffenpoof Song" while idling around a pile of
outsize blocks like a child's building bricks. What the human ear
relished, the giant ear flinched from.

There was a sort of vertical maze that verged on the four-dimensional,
for when they thought they were finding a way out the top they would
come abruptly to the side, or even the bottom, and have to begin anew.
This one was obviously impossible to figure out, thought Watkins. It
must be one of the ways in which the scientists induced neuroses in
their experimental subjects. He had a quick mind for puzzles and
intricacies of any kind, but this one stumped him cold.

"You think it's calculated to drive you crazy?" he asked Cal.

The New Englander considered for a minute. Then he nodded. "Possibly,"
he said.

"You think it might work?"

This time Cal pondered longer. At last he said, "Not if we don't let
it."

"I could develop a first-class neurosis," said Watkins to Mrs. Full, "if
I let myself really go."

"We must all keep our heads, Mr. Watkins," she told him. "Those of us
who have not given up--" She glanced at Summersby with a frown--"must
hold a tight rein on ourselves."

"That's right, ma'am," he said. They all called her "ma'am" or "Mrs.
Full." Nobody knew her first name. He wondered if she'd be insulted if
he asked her, and decided that she would.

Capriciously, then, on the heels of a series of punishments, the head
scientist went out of the room and came back with food for them. It
flung the food--three chickens--on the floor. Villa snatched one of them
up with a happy shout, but at once his dark face soured. "Raw? How can
we cook them?" His hand with the fowl dropped limply to his side.

"We can make a fire," said Calvin. Watkins was a little surprised that
it was Cal who made the suggestion first, but the Vermont man added,
"I've made enough campfires to know something about it."

"Mr. Full is an enthusiastic hunter," said his wife.

"A fire of what?" asked Villa, managing to look starved, helpless, and
wistful, all at once.

Summersby said, "There are plates of plastic over there, and plenty of
short rods. I don't know what these beasts use them for, but if they're
fireproof, we can construct a grill with them." He went without further
talk to a stack of the multicolored slabs and dowels, which lay beside a
neat array of what looked like conduit pipes, electromagnets, and coiled
cable. He picked up an armload. One of the giants put a hand down before
him. He pushed it aside and strode back to the group. Gutty, thought
Watkins, or just hungry? Or is it his sense of kismet?

"I'll cut some kindling from the trees in our room," said Calvin. "Who
has a knife?"

Summersby handed him a large pocket knife, and set about making a grill
over two of the plastic slabs. It was a workmanlike job when he had
finished. He held his lighter under one of the rods, which was
apparently impervious to fire. He nodded to himself. Looks more human,
thought Watkins, than he has yet.

Villa was plucking one of the chickens, humming to himself. Mrs. Full
was working on another, Adam on the third. Watkins felt useless, and sat
down, running his fingers along the smooth side of his briefcase.

Cal made a heap of chips and pieces of wood and bark under the grill.
Summersby lit it. The giants, who were grouped around them at a few
yards' distance, mumbled among themselves as the shavings took flame.
The plucked and drawn fowls were laid on the grill. Watkins' mouth began
to water.

"Now if we only had some coffee," he said to Adam. "One lousy pot of
greasy-spoon coffee!"



VI

"I have seen you," said Villa to Adam, who was gnawing on a drumstick.
"You wear the wig and a bone in the nose, and a tigerskin around you."

"Sure," said Adam. "I'm the Wild Man from Zululand. It's one job where
my color's an advantage."

"A fine job!" said Villa. "You should have come down to my stand. The
best chili in New York."

"I had a bowl there last week. Without my make-up, I mean."

"I will give you a bowl free when we go home. With tacos," added Villa
generously.

"It's good stuff," said the boy.

Calvin Full wiped his fingers and his lips on a handkerchief. He looked
about at the hall, through which the giants had now scattered; some of
them were tinkering with the machines, others were simply loitering, as
if bored by the whole matter of scientific research. They had lost their
early wariness of the humans, and did not carry the green goads, but
kept them tucked into holsters at the back of their swishing skirts.

One of them removed the blond man, Watkins, and set him to doing
something with a pipe-and-block apparatus. The processes they went
through with their strange mechanical and electrical gadgets, the end
results they achieved, were a mystery to Calvin. And as the afternoon
wore on, their conduct as a whole became even more mysterious. It was,
from human standards, totally irrational. One would begin a test,
analysis, or whatever it might be; he would follow it through its
devious windings to its ambiguous result, or to no result, and suddenly
leave it to begin something else, or come to watch the humans perform.

       *       *       *       *       *

The longer he observed their conduct, the more worried he became.
Finally, after a good bit of hiding and spying, he found out something
which he had been trying to figure for hours; and then it seemed time
for him to talk to someone about their escape.

The blond man had been peering into his briefcase. He zipped it shut
quickly as Calvin approached, with a kind of guilty movement. What does
he have in there? Calvin wondered.

"Mr. Watkins," he said, rubbing his chin and wishing he had a razor,
"did you ever see a scientist, or laboratory assistant, skip from one
thing to another as these creatures do?"

"I never did."

"Nor did I. They don't take care of their equipment, either; several
times one or another has kicked down a neat pile of gear, and once I
distinctly heard something break."

"It might be junked machinery," suggested Watkins.

"I doubt it."

One of the giants made a raucous noise--_Brangg!_

"And how irritable they are, in addition to their capriciousness and
sloppiness! I can't imagine a race of emotional misfits producing
equipment of such complexity. Their science is beyond ours in many ways,
yet look at this place." He made a broad gesture. "When we were let out
this morning, it was clean and well ordered. I've inspected dairies that
were far dirtier. Now it's a hodge-podge of scattered materials, upset
stacks of gear, tipped-over instruments. What sort of mind can bear such
confusion?"

Watkins smiled. "The minds that conceived--well, that vertical maze, for
instance--must be orderly after a fashion, even though it isn't the
human fashion."

"This is far from what I wanted to say, though. Have you been noticing
the door?"

"There isn't much to notice. It's a sliding panel like our wall."

"When one of the creatures leaves, he passes his right hand across what
is evidently an electric eye beam, as nearly as I can place it about ten
or eleven feet off the floor. That opens the door."

"Good going, Cal!" said Watkins. "I hadn't seen 'em do it."

"Our try for escape should be made as soon as possible," went on Calvin
in a low voice. "As we've talked about, the object of these tests and
experiments may be to infect us with neuroses--" Watkins grinned
again--"I know my phrasing isn't right," said Calvin stiffly, "but I
never looked into such matters. There's also Summersby's suggestion
about the fate of guinea pigs. So I think we'd better try to get out
right away."

"With five of them here?"

"If we have any luck, we may find an opportunity, yes. Occasionally they
get absorbed in something, and that door makes no noise."

Watkins looked at his briefcase uncertainly. "Okay," he said finally.
"May as well try it. Though God knows where we are when we do get out of
the lab."

Calvin congratulated himself on his choice of an ally. "Good man," he
said.

In the next hour they managed to build a crude platform beside the door,
of various boxlike things, nondescript plastic blocks and impedimenta.
The giants didn't even look at them. They were, indeed, a strange race.
Now the platform was high enough so that Calvin felt he could reach the
opening ray.

Summersby wandered over. "What are you doing?" he asked, seeming to
force out the question from politeness, not curiosity.

"We're going to make a break, High-pockets," said Watkins. "Want to
help?"

"They won't let you," said the big man.

"We can try, can't we?" asked Watkins hotly.

"It's your neck."

"Listen, you may be the size of a water buffalo, but if Cal and Adam and
I piled on you, you'd go down all right. Why don't you cooperate?"

Summersby stared at him a moment and Calvin thought he was going to say
something, something that would be important; but he shrugged and went
across the hall and into the prison box.

"What's eating that big bastard, anyway?" said Watkins.

Calvin believed he knew, but it was not his secret; it was Summersby's.
He said nothing.

"Watch it," said Watkins. "They're coming." The two men scurried behind
their rampart. The five giants marched, flat-footed, down the hall,
their thick arms swinging. The door opened and all of them went out. It
closed behind them.

"How about that!" said Watkins exultantly, a grin on his face.

"I'll get Mrs. Full and the others," said Calvin. He felt a tingle of
rising excitement. "Get up there and be ready to open it. We'll give
them five minutes and then make our break."

"Right." Watkins was already clambering up the boxes and blocks.

Calvin almost ran to his wife. She was standing in front of the color
organ. "Dear," he said, and halted.

"Yes, what is it, Calvin?"

"I don't know. I was going to say--"

A sluggishness was pervading his body, a terrible lassitude crept
through his brain. What was it? What was happening?

"I was going to--"

He caught her as she slumped, but could not hold up her weight, and sank
to the floor beside her. His eyes blinked a couple of times. Then
knowledge and sensation vanished together.



VII

Tom Watkins awoke slowly. He had a cramp in one arm from sleeping on it,
but otherwise he was conscious of a comfortable, healthy feeling, which
told him he'd slept well and long. He stretched and brushed a few pieces
of straw from his face.

Straw?

He suddenly remembered sitting down on their platform, very sleepy and
worried because of the abruptness of it.

He sat up. Summersby had just stood, yawning. "Did you carry me in
here?" he asked the big man.

"I was going to ask you that."

"Christ! What happened?" He was wholly awake now. "Did you drop off out
in the lab?"

"Yeah."

"So'd I," said Adam. He was sitting next to the Mexican, whom he now
pushed gently. "You okay, Porfirio?"

Villa erupted with a grunt. The Fulls were looking at each other
owlishly.

And then it hit him. Watkins twisted, cased the floor, and saw nothing
but straw and fountain and tree trunks. He was literally staggered, and
nearly lost his balance.

His briefcase was gone!

He stared about wildly, panic lifting in him like a swift debilitating
disease. Then he took four fast steps and grabbed Summersby by the coat.
It was queer, but he didn't even think of anyone else having taken it.
Summersby towered over him, but he could be brought down.

"Okay, you skyscraper," said Watkins, "where'd you put it?"

"Put what?"

"My case! Where is it?"

"I never touched your damned case."

Well, Watkins could smell honesty, and here it was. That startled
amazement was genuine. He glared at Adam Pierce, Villa, the Fulls. Not
that last pair, surely! As rock-ribbed and staunchly honest as their New
England coasts, and about as imaginative. Not the colored boy, either, a
good kid; and he didn't think it was Villa.

"We must have been carried in here by the scientists," said Adam
rationally. "Maybe they left it outside."

That was logical. But he'd had a death-grip on the handle when he fell
asleep, just as he always did. He looked at them all again. He went from
wall to wall, kicking the straw. Then he scowled at the sand box, the
only place a thing that size could be stashed away. He was suddenly on
his knees, tossing sand left and right.

Avoiding certain places, he checked the pile. Nothing! Not a scrap of
leather or a piece of green paper!

"If you are through," said Villa heavily, "I wish to use the box."

"Go ahead, Viva." Watkins walked across the room, groping for a
cigarette, then remembering he had none left. "What happened out there?"
he asked loudly. "Were we doped? Something in the chickens?"

"We were awake for a long time after we ate," said Adam. "Not even these
people could make a drug act on six of us in the same minute, after that
long; too many differences in metabolism. If that's the word I want."

"They weren't even in the room when we dropped off," said Mrs. Full.

       *       *       *       *       *

That was a tip-off. Watkins momentarily forgot his great loss. "They
left, and in a minute, we were asleep. They must have pumped some sort
of gas into the lab. Sleep gas."

"Is there such a thing?" asked Cal. "An anesthetic vapor that would
permeate such a large place so quickly?"

"Is there such a thing as a four dimensional maze?" asked Adam shortly.

Watkins grinned. He wasn't the only one who needed his morning coffee.

Then he thought of his briefcase again. He tried to push the moving wall
to one side; no go. He got mad again. "It's no good to them," he said.
"What do they want with it?"

"It couldn't have been so important that--" began Full.

"Important?" Watkins was yelling now, and although he disliked raising
his voice and making scenes, he did it now, with furious pleasure. "Cal,
you never saw anything more important in your life than that case, and I
don't care how many blue-ribboned cows you've gaped at!"

"What was in it?" asked Villa.

"Money, goddammit, money!" It didn't matter if his secret came out now.
In this insane place, God knew where, the cautious habits of half a
lifetime slid away. "The best haul I'd made this year. The contents of
the safe of Roscoe & Bates, that's what was in it! Better than
twenty-two thousand in good, green cash!"

"The contents of a safe?" Calvin Full frowned. "You mean you were a
messenger, taking it somewhere, and got on that roller coaster with--"

Adam Pierce laughed abruptly. "No, he wasn't a messenger," he said. "He
wasn't any messenger. He's a safe-cracker. Mr. Watkins, what good do you
think it'd do you in here?"

"We'll get back."

"You're a safe-cracker?" asked Mrs. Full, her pale face lengthening with
horror, disgust, and fear. "A criminal?"

"In a manner of speaking, ma'am," said Tom Watkins, "I am."

"I'll be hanged," said Summersby. "And you accused me of stealing your
loot. I ought to butter you all over the wall."

"You try it, you overgrown galoot. I didn't do a hitch in the
Philippines for nothing." Watkins smoothed back his hair, which was
dangling into his eyes. "Sure, I'm a safe man. Don't worry, Mrs. Full,
that doesn't mean I'm a thug." She looked scared.

"That's right," said Adam, still chuckling. "This boy's the aristocracy
of crime. You don't have to worry about your purse. He only plays around
with big stuff."

Tom flipped him a grin. "I'll bet you even know why I was on the
coaster."

"Sure. You were hiding out."

"That's it. If I kept out of sight till dark I was okay. They were out
for me, because my touch is known; but who'd think of checking an
amusement park?" He turned as Cal made a noise in his throat. The
Vermonter was a study in outraged sensibilities.

"You--you swine," he said, a typical Victorian hero facing the
mustache-twisting villain. "You stole that money--"

"My morals and your morals, Cal," said Watkins as genially as he could,
"are probably divergent, but it doesn't make a whale of a difference
now, does it?"

Full turned to his wife and began to mutter to her.

Villa said, "I don't like crooks, I run a respectable stand and I am an
honest man," and scratching his hand where the healed burn was, he
turned away likewise. Summersby was sitting on the tire, and only Adam
looked sympathetic. The boy wasn't crooked, that was plain, but Watkins
had the glamor that a big-time thief has for the young, the fake aura of
Robin-Hoodism.

He shook his head. He'd had to spill it. For a while they'd trusted him
and now he was a pariah.

The food panel opened and something plumped in. Watkins glanced at his
chronograph. Ten o'clock Saturday. He went over to the food.

It was a big, glossy chocolate-brown vulture with a blue head.

"Well," said Adam. "Well, now, I don't know."

"They pulled a boner this time," said Watkins. "Unless it's part of the
conditioning."

Villa picked it up. "It weighs many pounds. It's warm, just killed. I
don't want any of it." He dropped it on the straw. "With my spices,
perhaps; but not cooked on that grill, without sauce and spice. Aargh!"

Watkins thought, Amen to that. He rubbed the sandy bristles on his chin.
No razor or soap here. It dawned on him that he was thirsty, and he went
to the fountain. As it always did when he bent over to drink, the
curious web of silver strands in the corner caught his eye. There were
so many puzzles about this damned lab that he despaired of ever solving
all of them.

After fifteen minutes, the wall opened. They went out, Villa carrying
the vulture. He flung it at the feet of the chief scientist, who was
there with two associates.

"No!" he bellowed up at it. "We do not eat this!" He articulated slowly,
clearly, as though to a foreigner with a slim knowledge of English. It
picked up the great bird and regarded it closely, then without warning
threw it at one of the other giants.

The vulture caught it on the side of the head and knocked it off
balance; falling to its knees, it bleated out an angry sound and dived
for the boss' legs. They went down together in a gargantuan scrimmage
that made the humans dance backward to avoid being smashed by the thick
swinging arms.

Tom Watkins walked off, unimpeded, to look for his briefcase. It was
nowhere in the lab. He cursed bitterly. Twenty-two grand, up the spout.

The head scientist, having chastised the other, left the room; Watkins
had a glimpse of another fully as large, with something like a big table
therein. Shortly the creature returned, carrying in one arm a load of
wood chips, and in the other a bulgy, leathery thing that turned out to
be a partially stunned octopus, still dripping the waters of an unknown
ocean.

They killed it, rebuilt their grill (larger this time), and cut up the
octopus and cooked and ate it. It wasn't as bad as Watkins had feared.

After a dragging day, they were locked into their box--no one had a
chance to gimmick the wall, for the giant were watching them
closely--and shortly afterward a load of raw vegetables was dumped in.

Watkins paced the floor after he had eaten, waiting for the sleep gas,
determined to combat it if he could. When the drowsiness came, he walked
faster. It didn't do any good. He knew he was sinking to the floor.
Powerful stuff, he said to himself, very powerful st--

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Full kept close to Calvin all through Sunday. They had been here
since Thursday, all these men without women, and she knew there were men
who had to have women frequently or they became vicious and could not be
stopped by any thought of consequences. The Mexican seemed all right,
but you never knew with a person from a Latin country.

Another facet of the same problem was the fact that she and Calvin were
supposed to be on their honeymoon. She faced it: she was frustrated. She
wanted a honeymoon, no matter what sort of prison they were in. So after
their first meal on Sunday, she asked Calvin to fix up a private
apartment in their prison.

With various materials, plastic blocks and the different sizes of slabs,
and some screens of translucent fabric she had dug up in a corner, he
made a walled-off compartment just large enough for two.

Then one of the scientists looked in, saw what he was doing, and
promptly knocked it down.

Adam, who had been helping in the latter stages, squinted at the ceiling
of the box. "You know, Mrs. Full, I think they can see us through that.
If it's opaque to us, it still might be transparent to them; like a
mirror, I mean, I've seen them at home, mirror on one side, window from
the other. That'd explain the light we get in here. And if they want to
observe us all the time, then this private cell of yours would make 'em
mad."

"But _it_ had no roof," she objected.

"That's right." He shook his head. "Another theory gone poof."

"I'll build it again," said Calvin stubbornly, and did so. This time the
giants left it alone. He and Adam made a screen for the sand box too,
and built a permanent grill on one side of the box.



VIII

By Tuesday they were all in a state of anxiety and scarcely-contained
rage. Their surveillance was casual, often non-existent, yet not once
had they been able to block the wall of their prison or open the great
door of the laboratory. Circumstances, chance, fate, whatever you wanted
to call it, something had stopped them every time.

There were three giants in the lab today. Sometimes there would be one
of them, sometimes as many as five; but always there would be the one
who had first removed them from the box, who seemed to be the head
scientist, giving orders, bullying the others in the queer emotional way
of these creatures. Today there were three. As usual, when they had let
the humans out, the lab was clean and orderly. The sloppy scientists had
very efficient janitors, thought Adam. By this time the place was a
shambles.

Out in the lab, there rose the honking sound of pain and anger--some of
the noises they made, especially the commands, were recognizable now to
the people--and a sharp slap. Then Mrs. Full hurried into the box,
carrying a number of two-foot-square slabs under her arm.

"What happened, ma'am?"

"Hello, Adam. The criminal Watkins played a few bars of a real song on
that device, and the brutes hit him." She laid down the slabs. "Our
harmonies enrage them, I think perhaps cause them actual pain. They held
the sides of their heads where ears ought to be, and shook themselves
and made those hideous noises."

"They hit me when I sang the other day," said Adam, "remember?"

"That's right. Look here." She sat down, pulled one of the thick slabs
onto her lap. "I found these under a shelf out there. One of the
creatures knocked them off and I picked them up. I wondered why they had
been up there, when so many stacks of them just sit around on the
floor."

"I never saw any like these, ma'am. They have that little ridge on the
edge there, and the border of different colored stuff around 'em."

"Watch what happens when I push the ridge upward, Adam. It's like an
automatic button." She pressed it and the slab, at first gay orange,
turned pale blue; on it appeared three lines of squiggly characters,
like a cross between Arabic writing and Egyptian hieroglyphics.

"A magic slate," said Adam. "That's neat!"

"You haven't seen anything yet," she told him, and pushed the ridge
again. The writing disappeared, and out of the slab leered a bull
gorilla, paws on chest, eyeing Adam with beady, ridge-browed
malevolence. It took a second for sanity to convince him that it was
only a picture: three-dimensional, on a two-dimensional sheet of
plastic, but so real he half-expected the beast to charge out at him.
"What about that?" she asked.

He hit his thigh with a fist. It was a photograph, he imagined, but made
by an illusory process so far ahead of anything humanity could produce
that it seemed he might glimpse whatever was behind the gorilla if he
put his eyes down to the side of the slate. "Gosh!" he said, feeling it
a little naïve but afraid to swear in front of her. "Isn't that
something!"

"It's a book," she said, "an album of photographs. Look here."

The next picture was an equally miraculous one of half a dozen monkeys
sitting on a tree trunk. Adam looked at it, then at the farthest trunk
in their box of a room. Undeniably it was the same one.

Under the picture was a line of squiggles that probably spelled out the
scientists' equivalent of "monkeys."

"They were here, in this place," said Adam. "The giants must have
experimented on them too." He turned his eyes up to the woman and saw
that she was white and drawn. "What happened to them?" he asked. "There
aren't any monkeys here now."

"Exactly," she said. She put on the next picture, and after a moment the
next.

Dogs greeted his eyes, so real he could almost hear them pant; a cow
gazed stolidly at him; a cheetah sat on a mound of straw with clown's
head cocked inquisitively; two cockatoos perched in rigid still life on
the silver rod of the prison box.

"What happened to them?" he asked again.

"The experiments ended," she said.

Then there flashed out a thing like a blue sponge with legs, a thing
which sat in the cat's-cradle they had speculated so much about. From
its center two ruby eyes blazed with three-dimensional fire. _That_
never came from Earth! Mars or Venus could have produced it, maybe, or a
planet so far from Earth that it bore no name. He said as much, his
voice quavering.

She stared at him. Moistening her lips, she said, "If that was here, in
this box, then _where are we_?"

He shook his head. He could not even guess. "What's next?"

The last picture in the slate was a group portrait of himself, the
Fulls, Summersby, Watkins, and Porfirio Villa.

When was that taken? They were sitting in a circle on the straw, eating
something. Peering closely, he thought it must be the vegetables, for
there was a small heap of round things next to Calvin Full which were
probably buckeyes. Sunday night, then.

"They must have taken it through the food panel," he said. "Are there
any more pictures?"

"That's all. I don't know what's in the other ones yet."

Calvin came in. She handed him the first "book" and showed him how to
operate it. He flipped through it and when he came to the monstrosity in
the web his eyes widened. "What is it?" he asked, in the hard twang of
his region.

"A guinea pig, like all the others including us," his wife said.

"The tree trunks are explained now," said Adam, half to himself. "The
sand box, too. That isn't a very scientific-looking treatise, but I
guess it's more of a memento, a record of us all." He raised his brows
in a facial shrug. "Us and the monkeys," he said. "Gosh!"

       *       *       *       *       *

She took the next big slate on her lap. It was lavender. The first few
pages to appear were covered with the curious writing, very large and
only a few words to a page. Then came pictures of many things, not
photographs but drawings and paintings in vivid color, and the things
could in no way be linked to science. There were portraits of the tall
creatures themselves, in various settings, some in labs like this one,
some outdoors in a landscape that was predominantly scarlet and green;
there were group scenes in which they ate odd-looking foods and walked
down blue pathways and examined strange pets and familiar animals. Under
each picture was a short grouping of squiggles, marks, scribbles, etc.

"Can that be a science book?" asked Cal, leaning over his wife's
shoulder. The beings were pictured as simply as possible, in no minute
detail whatever, and their activities were of the dullest and most
prosaic sort.

This pattern was followed through page after page--a picture (some of
them were of things so alien they could not be placed by either the
Fulls or himself), a single character, then a short word and another,
long or short as the case might be. After a dozen of them had flashed on
and off Adam noticed that the large character was always repeated at the
beginning of the last word.

When he realized what it meant, the whole business clicked into focus.
The whole damned deal, the lab and the scientists and the experiments
and the meaning of the four magic slates, and everything. There was no
particular reason why this last slate should have done it, for it was no
more suggestive than many other things that he had seen; it was simply
the last piece of evidence, the final push that sent him headlong into
terrible knowledge.

Carefully, desperately, he went over it all in his mind, while the Fulls
spoke in low tones.

_God_, he thought, _oh, God!_ He was shivering now. He was more
terrified than he had ever been before. His tongue felt thick.

The punishments, the high stool and the arbitrary cuffs and swats; the
gadgets, the mazes, the puzzles; were they all a part of the
conditioning to neurosis of a scientific experiment? They were not.

       *       *       *       *       *

Adam had found an answer, the only possible answer. The fourth slate had
given it to him, although a hundred hints of it had shown up every day.
His psych teacher would be ashamed of him for muddling along so many
days, believing in a theory that was so plainly impossible.

He addressed Mrs. Full. She was a little sharper than her husband, and
this was more in her line, too. He had to make her discover the same
answer. He had to _know_ it was right. And then he had to get out of
that place in a hell of a hurry.

"Ma'am, you know what this is?"

"No, Adam."

"Look here. See this big letter, repeated at the first of this word?"

"Yes."

He flipped a few "pages" past. "It's the same with all of them, you see?
And the middle word is always the same--four curly letters. You know
what that middle word is?"

"No, Adam."

"It's 'stands for' or 'means.'" He stared at her. "Get it?"

She thought an instant. "Of course. Adam, that's very clever of you."
She wasn't scared yet. She hadn't seen the implication.

"'Stands for'?" Calvin repeated.

"A stands for Apple," explained Mrs. Full. "Or A stands for Airship, or
whatever it might be. It's an alphabet book, dear."

She still hadn't caught it. "Remember when Mr. Full built the cubbyhole
here," Adam said, "and the giant knocked it down? Why was he angry?"

"I suppose they want to observe us without any hindrance."

"No, ma'am," he said with conviction. "That was simple frustration. They
want to see everything, whether it's interesting to them or not. They
aren't scientifically disappointed if they can't, they're just
frustrated. Think of the punishment we get, slaps, the dunce stool."

"As though we were children," she said.

"Exactly. Now, here are these books. An alphabet book, and these others.
What age would you figure them for? You taught kindergarten, you said.
This is something I wouldn't know."

"I'd say they're for fairly bright children about five or six years
old."

"Or for us," said her husband, "when they start to teach us their
language."

"They are children's books, though, with short sentences and the gaudy
pictures our own children love." Mrs. Full stared at Adam. Her brown
eyes widened. "Adam," she said, "you've guessed something."

"You guess it too," he pleaded. She had to corroborate his own idea.
"Think of all the things about them we haven't been able to make out."

"Nursery books...." she said slowly. "Instability to the point of
insanity, if you found it in adult humans. Sloppiness and inefficiency,
when these machines point to a high degree of neatness of mind.
Wandering attention, inability to concentrate for long periods. Positive
tantrums over nothing. Cruelty and affection mixed without rhyme or
reason." She took him by the arm, her fingers strong with fear and
urgency. "Tell me, Adam."

       *       *       *       *       *

His breath hissed. He was filled with panic. Where there had been only
anxiety for his own life and his world, there was now a fearful
knowledge that he could scarcely bear without shrieking. She had it too,
but she didn't dare say it. It was a horrible thing.

"These machines," he said, "aren't scientific testers at all."

"Yes?"

"They're toys."

"Yes?"

"We aren't guinea pigs. We're--we're pets. They've had other animals,
from Earth and from God knows where, and now they have people."

"Yes. Go on, say it." She thrust her face fiercely up to his.

"Those twelve-foot 'scientists' are kids," he said. Then he stopped and
deliberately got his cracking voice under control. She was just as
frightened as he was but she wasn't yelling. "It's the only answer.
Everything fits it. They're about five years old."

Calvin Full frowned. "If that's true, we're in trouble."

"You're damn right we're in trouble!" said Adam. "A kid doesn't take
care of a pet like a scientist takes care of a guinea pig or a white
rat. If it annoys him, he's liable to pick it up and throw it at a wall!
I might get my head torn off for singing, or you could be dismembered
for making a mistake with one of those toys."

"Some children tear the wings off butterflies," said Mrs. Full. She
stood up. "I'll go and tell the others," she said firmly. "It doesn't
seem to me that we have much time left."

"If we start to bore them--" began Adam, and shut up.

She went out. In about five minutes everyone had come into the box but
Watkins, who was playing the color organ. They discussed the discovery
in low voices, as though the alien children might be listening; Villa
and Summersby examined the slates. After a while Watkins was pushed in,
looking rather worn and frayed. Adam was standing in the far corner
under the silver web. He saw the wall start to slide shut, remembered
his dowel, and tried to see if it was still in place at the bottom of
the wall.

He couldn't see it. Maybe it blended with the color behind it, or maybe
somebody had accidentally kicked it out of place.

The wall slid shut.



IX

Summersby was losing the sense of being apart, of having no problems no
matter what happened. These people had drawn him into their trouble
against his will; the situation was so bad that he could no longer tell
himself he didn't give a damn. So he had a bad heart! He couldn't turn
his back on these poor devils because of that. It was stupid and
selfish. He felt sorry for them. He was uncomfortable with them, as he
always was with standard-sized people, and he would still repel any
attempt on their part to get close to him; but he was a little chastened
by what he had been through. He recognized that.

It was all very well to say he didn't care where he died, but it would
be a hell of a lot more dignified to accomplish it as a free man, rather
than as a harried rabbit. Even if he were killed trying to escape, it
would be endurable. But if his heart gave out while he was, say,
trundling up and down the nursery in that ridiculous little auto thing,
he knew his last breath would be a bitter one.

Adam had just said, "I laid a rod across the sill there." Summersby
walked to the wall, which appeared to be closed as usual. Just as he
came to it, he caught the sheen of metal in a thin line up the corner,
and knew that he was seeing part of one of the machines in the nursery.
The dowel had held the door.

Something moved outside; he could hear the dull slap of immense flat
feet. They were going to be fed. He strolled away from the corner,
saying quietly, "It worked, Adam. Don't check it now, though."

The small panel opened and one of the garishly hued platters was put in,
loaded with a wriggling, seething mass of grubs and half-dead locusts.

"Supper?" cried Villa. "This is supper? Do they think we are a lot of
African natives?"

"Well," said Adam, "I guess they were fooled by me." It was the first
time he had made any sort of joke about his color. Possibly, thought
Summersby, he's becoming one of the group, as I am. God knows the kid
has as much reason to be bitter about people as I have; or more reason.
It's put him on the defensive.

Summersby felt more chastened than ever.

No one cared to sample the insects. They walked away from the platter
and hoped aloud that their captors would see the refusal and give them
something else, but nothing was pushed in. After a quarter of an hour
Watkins said, "Think it's safe to have a try at the door?"

"No," said Summersby.

Watkins jumped to his feet. "Listen, I've had all I can stomach of you!"
he yelled. "If you don't want to help, okay, but keep your nose--"

"I was going to say that they'll be pumping in the sleep gas pretty
soon, and we don't know whether they do it from outside the nursery or
outside this box."

"That's right," said Calvin Full.

Watkins eyed him a moment. "I'm sorry, Summersby," he said then. "I shot
off my mouth too quick."

"They filled the nursery with it once," went on Summersby, "but it seems
logical to think they could also let it into this room alone. Maybe it
works on them, maybe not; if it does, then they wouldn't flood the
nursery with it every night, because the adults have to come in and
clean the place up."

"A clever thought, Mr. Summersby," said the woman.

"Not particularly. At any rate, I'm going to stand by the crack and try
to get enough air to stay awake; then when I think the coast's clear,
I'll shove the door open and scout around. If I find a way out, I'll
come back and drag you into the nursery and wake you."

"Why are you doing this?" asked Villa suspiciously. "No, Mr. Big Man, I
don't like you going out alone. I think you wouldn't come back. You
don't like us."

Watkins, evidently on edge from his mauling by the children, whirled on
the Mexican. "Oh, shut your yap! The guy's doing you a favor." Then he
said to Summersby, "I'll come along."

Summersby grinned wryly.

"I'm not saying you'd run out on us, man." Watkins made the motions of
going through his pockets for a cigarette, which some of them still did
occasionally out of hopeful habit. "I know locks and I might be able to
help if you ran into trouble."

"Come on along, then." He put an eye to the thin slit. "Here comes one
of them. It's the head scientist." He grinned. "Or the kid who owns us,
who lives in this house and invites his little pals in every day to play
with his toys and his pets."

The monster disappeared. Presently Watkins said, "It's in. I'm sleepy."

Summersby stretched as tall as he could and put his mouth to the crack,
trying to breathe only what air came through from the nursery. He saw
the enormous child pass on its way to the door, and shortly the sound of
its heavy feet stopped. He felt drowsy, his eyelids flickered. He beat
his hands together, sucking in air from the opening. Villa started to
snore.

Watkins said, "I'm about done, Summersby." He was kneeling at the crack
below Summersby, and his voice was sluggish. In a few seconds he rolled
over on the straw.

When did the adults come in to clean up? Summersby didn't dare wait much
longer. He was fighting sleep with all his vigor. Possibly they wouldn't
come till morning.

He had to chance it. He forced his fingers into the gap and heaved. The
wall didn't move. Holding his breath, he propped one foot against the
adjoining wall, dug his hands as far into the breach as possible, and
hurled himself backward. The big door jolted an inch, hung, then slid
back a couple of feet. He swung around and jammed himself through the
aperture and the wall moved silently back into place; this time the
dowel was not there, and when the wall stopped, there was no crack at
the corner. Summersby must have kicked the dowel aside when he slid
through. Watkins was inside, asleep.

He breathed deeply, and the effects of the sleep gas died, so that he
was wide awake and felt very excited and eager. To analyze the reasons
for his eagerness would have killed it, and besides he was in a hurry.
He ran to the great door of the playroom, whose lintel towered twenty
feet from the floor. Hastily he tossed apparatus, boxes, toy blocks,
until he had made a pile five feet high.

Scrambling up this, the things sliding under his feet, he waved an arm
above his head in the place where he believed the electric eye beam to
be. Then the pile collapsed, and he fell into it, giving one knee a
terrific crack and skinning his knuckles. The door glided open.

The next room was deserted, and the soft bluish light was dimmer here
than in the nursery. This place was far less cluttered, containing no
more than a big yellow machine, a gigantic table, and two six-legged
chairs. There was a picture on the wall, the size of a barn's side,
which he did not stop to look at.

The opposite door was open. The third room was a dining hall, with two
tables and a number of chairs, these of metal with eight legs each.
Luckily, there was no one in it.

In the next room--all four were in a straight line, and he thought,
Either it's a long narrow house, or else it's as big as Rockefeller
Center--there were a number of gadgets, colorful and complex like the
children's toys, but of different construction. He glanced at them but
did not pause until he came to the next door.

It was closed. He presumed its opener beam would be in the same place as
that of the playroom, and looked around for something to stand on.

There seemed to be nothing small enough to move. He shoved at a couple
of things, but they wouldn't budge. The only slim possibility was a big
square brown box, set twelve feet off the floor on one of their mammoth
tables. It was of a size to accommodate half a dozen cows, but looked as
though it might be of flimsy enough materials, plastic probably, to push
off the edge, from which it would fall exactly where he needed it.

He dragged a chair over, climbed up on its seat and then onto the table.
He saw at once that the box would be immovable. There was an affair that
might be a dynamotor attached to one side, various objects sticking out
of the other, and four stacks of thick coils on top. He was turning
away, hoping to find another door in one of the first rooms, when his
eye was attracted to a square plate among the things on the right side
of the box. The plate was glass, for its surface shone under the blue
light, and he thought he saw the pin-point twinkling of stars in it.

On a hunch, he walked over to it. He knew quite a lot of astronomy and
if this happened to be a telescope, he might be able to determine their
location.

The field of the plate was full of stars, but in patterns he had never
seen. He could not understand it. It was not a painting, for the stars
twinkled. Where the blazes was the thing focused?

A huge dial beside the plate had a pointer and scores of notches, each
labeled with a couple of squiggly characters. He turned the pointer
experimentally. The screen blurred, showed a planet with rings: Saturn.

"Neat," he said to himself, and turned the pointer another notch. He got
a view of a landscape, trees of olive green and crimson, seen from
above. He tried other notches.

Finally, just as he had reminded himself that he had to hurry, he saw a
familiar globe swim onto the glass. It was Earth, with the two Americas
clearly defined.

What in hell...?

He pushed the pointer on, and was given another landscape, this time of
prosaic hue, a meadow with a cow in it. He clicked the thing another
notch and got a constellation pattern again. He pushed it back to the
cow.

He felt his heart thudding fast, too fast; and he hoped with all his
faculties that he wouldn't conk out before he had solved this riddle.
There were other dials, other pointers, a little behind the first. He
turned one slowly.

The cow grew larger until it almost filled the screen. Only when he
could see nothing but its broad placid back did he realize that he was
looking at this scene, as at the others, from _above_.

He tried a third pointer. The land whipped by beneath his gaze. He came
to a city, the buildings reaching up to him in a wonderful illusion of
depth.

Then it dawned on him what the machine was, and he gasped.

There was no use in looking for the outer door. He had found the answer
to their last problem, and he had to get back to the box with that
answer and thrash it out with all of them. There might be a salvation
for them and there might not.

Leaving the screen showing the city, he jumped down off the table, raced
back through the room and into the next, the dining hall. Still there
were no signs of any of the giants. He had crossed the threshold of the
third room when he heard a door open on his right. There was no time to
gape around; he covered thirty feet in five strides, dodged under the
hanging shelf of the strange yellow machine, like a low desk covered
with cogwheels, and ran along beneath it till he came to the extreme end
of the contrivance.

A pair of feet, either of which would have outweighed a draft horse,
went past him; he dared not lean forward to see the rest of the brute,
but it was undoubtedly an adult. It went into the playroom.

After twenty or twenty-five minutes, during which Summersby thought over
the problem and agreed with himself that he couldn't find the solution
alone, the giant came out of the playroom, crossed near his hiding
place, and went out through a door beside the huge picture. It was not
in a hurry, so he decided it had not noticed his absence from the box.

He dragged an easy chair over to the nursery door. It was just four
times the size of Summersby's Morris chair at home, and about eight
times as heavy. As he was crawling up the leg to the seat, he recalled
that he had a bad heart. If he hadn't been clinging to the plastic with
both arms, he would have shrugged.

He intercepted the beam and opened the door. Having no more than half a
minute to get through before it shut, he had to leave the chair where it
was. He hoped none of the adults would realize that its position had
changed.

The playroom was clean and neat. Likely it would remain unvisited
through the night. He went to the box and only then remembered it was
shut tight. What did the kids do when they opened it during the day? He
had seen them at it twice. They laid their hands on top of the box,
there on the left.

Hauling over enough junk to make a pair of steps, he got onto the roof
of the box. There was a bar, set into the coaming. He pressed it, leaned
over, and saw the wall slide back. A second push returned it to its shut
position. He opened it again, swung his legs over the edge, pressed the
bar once more and dropped. Snatching up a green dowel from the floor, he
jumped into the box as the door was closing. He had just time to lay the
rod across the threshold, as Adam had done, before the wall reached it
and was held.

Trying not to breathe, Summersby picked up Watkins and slung him over
his shoulder. He forced his fingers into the crack and heaved. Again he
threw his weight against the wall.

Then he was buckling at the knees, trying desperately to bring his mouth
next to the opening, but not quite making it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Describe it again," said Watkins. "Give me all the details you can
think of."

As Summersby went over what he remembered of the brown machine, Watkins
tried to envisage it. A tough job, and he might not be able to handle
it. To reverse a thing like that--when there'd be at least one or two
principles he'd never heard of--well, that would be the job of a
lifetime.

"How do you know that it's the instrument that brought us here?" he
asked.

"It must be." Summersby looked intent, almost eager. "It has those dials
that focus it almost pin-point on any planet they want; at least, I saw
quite a few planets, from a distance and close up. I saw a cow and a
city on Earth. Then there's the big brown box. It's hollow--the door was
half open. If they bring things, living things, from other planets, they
need a receiving station large enough to take 'em. The box. It's
logical."

"It sure is." Adam whistled. "So we're on another planet. That was
plain, if we'd thought about it seriously. No place on Earth could hide
a race like this. Not with all the factories they must have to produce
the toys and what you saw out there."

"Why couldn't we be inside the Earth?" asked Mrs. Full stridently.

Watkins said, "He looked _down_ on Earth. That argues another planet."

"But how did they get us here? In two days?"

Watkins scratched his bristled chin and thought aloud. "It must have
been instantaneous. Remember, we went through a quarantine and were
healed of just about everything that was wrong with us. That must have
taken a while."

"The octopus was still wet," said Adam, "and the grubs and locusts were
still kicking. They must focus that rig on Earth and push a button and
here it is, like that. Instant transmission of matter." He smiled
weakly, as though he were proud of the phrase. He looked very
frightened, thought Watkins, and unhappy.

Tom Watkins was scared, too, but not especially unhappy. For the first
time in almost twenty years, he was free of worry about the bulls, the
law. He only wished he knew what had happened to his loot.

"The planet," said Cal, "whatever its name is, must have the same
gravity and atmosphere as Earth. Same water, too."

"That's right. So it's produced a race of critters with plenty of human
characteristics," said Watkins.

"Have they done this before?" asked Mrs. Full. "I mean do you think
we're the first to be snatched up?"

"No, I don't," said Watkins, surprised that she was talking directly to
him. "People disappear all the time. Look at the famous ones: Judge
Crater, Ambrose Bierce--"

"Somebody mention the _Marie Celeste_," growled Summersby.

       *       *       *       *       *

The wall began to open.

"Here's the plan, quick," said Watkins. "I've got to get out and find
the machine, and see if I can gimmick it so it'll work backward, send us
home. The rest of you create a diversion, keep the kids' minds off me."

"What kind of a diversion?" asked Villa. His abstracted face showed
plainly that he was thinking of his chili stand and what he would say to
the idiot relief man about conditions he would doubtless find therein.

"If you were a kid with pets, intelligent ones, what would you watch
them do for hours? Something unordinary--something you'd never imagine
they'd do." He looked at his chronograph. "It's just ten. I never saw
the gadget I couldn't figure out in two hours; if I'm not back by noon,
you'd better come out, Summersby."

"What if it's four-dimensional?" asked Adam.

"It's possible I can cook up a way to reverse its action anyway. There
are some principles of electricity and mechanics that must be
universal."

"Shall we run the machines for them?" asked Mrs. Full. "To distract the
children?"

"They're used to that," said Watkins. "They bore easy. Suppose you're a
kid with a normal regard for pets. You've had cats and dogs and rabbits
and now you have monkeys. The monkeys are a lot smarter and more
versatile, but they have their limits too. You get jaded with 'em. But
one day they--" he snapped his fingers--"they start playing soldiers!
They drill, stage mock battles, die and come to life, scrimmage--hell,
you go nuts! You can't take your eyes off 'em!"

"That's it," said Villa promptly. "The children have gorillas, cows,
they have never seen anything like war."

"Maybe they don't know what war is," said Adam. "It might just look as
if we were fighting. None of their toys show a sign of war being ever
waged by this race, like our own kids' toys do."

"The toys of any people reflect their civilization in an unreliable and
distorted way," said Cal Full rather stuffily. "A visitor from Mars in
one of our playrooms would conclude that we already have spaceships and
ray guns, and that our usual clothing is chaps, sombreros, and
spacesuits."

"They'll get the idea," Watkins said impatiently. The giant children
outside were bawling the word that meant "Come!" He was in a hurry.
These fools were always arguing. "Let's go," he said. "The four of you
line up over there, catch the kids' eyes, and High-pockets can boost me
up to the beam. Then he'll join you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Watkins grinned tightly, slapped Adam on the shoulder, poked Villa in
the belly, and dived behind the nearest many-colored pile of gear the
moment he saw the children weren't watching him. As he went toward the
door, he heard Villa saying, "My fourth cousin Pancho was a great man
for war, so I will be general. Spread out in the thin line and be ready
to march when I command."

Summersby followed Watkins, and they came to the door. Watkins managed
to get up on the big man's shoulders, and waved a hand above his head.
Nothing happened.

"Stand on them," said Summersby.

He struggled to do so. "_Un_, _dos_, _tres_," roared the Mexican down
the hall. "Begin!"

This time Watkins found the beam. The door glided aside. He dropped off
Summersby's shoulders, jumped into the next room. A quick look showed
him it was empty. As the door closed he heard Villa shouting hoarsely.

"Make bang noises for the guns. Fall dead, spring to life. We are
mountain fighters of great skill. Climb on machines, drop off with
bullets in your head, play you are--"

The door cut him off. Watkins chuckled. "What a ham," he said. He
started for the opposite door.



X

It was ten minutes to twelve. Summersby was panting like a spent hound.
He had not exercised in months, not since the doctors had told him his
heart was just about gone, and he was surprised that he hadn't keeled
over before now. Dashing around playing guerrilla like some
six-year-old! It had been a damn good idea, though. The giant
children--there were two of them today--were still enthralled, lying on
their bellies with their furry watermelon heads propped in fantastic
two-thumbed hands.

Leaning against a pink plastic maze wall, puffing, he thought, I've
almost grown to like them. Why?

Because for the first time since he was sixteen, John Summersby had to
bend his neck back to look up at someone. These grotesque humanoidal
beings were the only living things which did not make him feel
overgrown, uncouthly out of proportion, a hulking lout. If a chair was
too narrow for him, it would be like the head of a pin to one of these
kids: if a fork felt uncomfortably small in his own hand, it would be a
minikin indeed in one of those vast paws.

In their shadows, Summersby was a very small man. It was an unwonted
sensation, the most satisfying he had ever experienced.

He looked at them out there, as they lay watching Mrs. Full and Adam
mowing down Cal and Villa with imaginary Brownings. He grinned, felt his
lips curve in the unaccustomed grimace, and thought with no particular
bitterness that he was getting mellow in his last days. "Hello,
High-pockets," he said softly to the kid that owned him. "How's the
weather up there?"

At five to noon the door opened. Summersby, seeing its silent motion,
left off the mimic gunplay and started for the wall, where he could
intercept Watkins and find out whether he'd been successful. But the
safe-cracker came running down the middle of the room, yelling.

"Come on, everybody!"

"Come on?"

The two giant children were on their feet, uncertain of what was
happening. Obviously they didn't realize Watkins had been out of the
room at all.

"The adults spotted me!" roared the blond man, swinging his briefcase
wildly; where had he found that? "They're after me!"

Summersby let out an involuntary grunt when through the twenty-foot door
came an eighteen-foot creature, a thing so mind-shakingly huge that even
the ranger's size complex wasn't pleased by it. This was an adult:
leaner in the body, broader of hand and thicker of limb, wearing
trouserlike garments and a flaring jacket of royal purple caught by a
ruby bar, it advanced calmly into the hall, clumping flat-footed in
three yard strides. From its heavy-lipped gash of a mouth came noises
like a whole orchestra badly in need of tuning.

"Hwhrangg!" it cried, waving its hands in the air. "Breemingg!" It
appeared to be soothing the children, telling them that Daddy was here.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Full, on the control platform, screamed. Her husband ran to her,
Summersby stepped out irresolute, Adam stood stunned. But Porfirio
Villa, afire with the heady make-believe carnage of the afternoon, was
as quick to act as his fourth cousin Pancho could have been. A dozen
waddling leaps, a swift swing of his legs over the side, and the Mexican
landed in the little red vehicle with the vast control board, the car
that only he had been able to master. Pressing buttons, pulling
plungers, sliding levers, he whirled it around and sent it at the
towering adult.

The beast skipped out of his way, blaring anger; he came about sharply,
gunned his "motor"--if it was that--and rammed the gigantean enemy on
the leg. There was the clear sharp snap of bone breaking. As Villa's car
overturned, the creature fell at full length, with a crash like an
elephant dropping out of a tree. It contracted its body and gripped its
ankle with both hands, honking dismally.

Summersby was running. He skidded up to the groveling Villa, yanked him
to his feet and shoved him out of range of the injured beast. The two
children had broken into the barks that were their equivalent of
weeping, one drawing its goading rod. Summersby crouched, went toward
it, hoping to bring it down before it stunned him. As he came within
diving range, though, the orange airship streaked over his head and
jammed its nose into the child's belly. It folded over with a whoosh,
grabbing its middle, as the toy wobbled off in eccentric flight.

Mrs. Full, the expert at flying the miniature vessel, was hectically
jamming her blocks along their metal rods; something had gone wrong with
the mechanism at the crash. Her husband hauled her off the seat and
rushed her toward the door.

The remaining child stood in the middle of the floor, staring at its
groaning, breathless playmate and at the maimed adult, honking a little
frightened song to itself. Skirting it, the humans made for the door as
fast as they could go.

Summersby overtook Watkins. "I found it okay," panted the crook.

"Can you work it?" They were through the door now, the two of them in
the lead, running across the first of the rooms.

"There were other adults," said Watkins. "Three or four saw me. I don't
know where they went."

"_Can you work it?_"

"The matter transmitter?" He grinned briefly. "Sure. There's two
principles I don't get, but--"

The doorway before them was crowded by several of the giants. They came
through, not hurrying, talking rather placidly; their movements had the
swiftness of the children's without their jerkiness. In their hands were
green goads. They pointed and came down upon the humans.

"Scatter!" yelled Summersby, and dodged under the shelf of the machine
where he had taken cover last night. He went to the end. In seconds they
would be peering under the shelf, spotting him, thrusting in their
shockers and laying him out. And, damn it all, he cared! He didn't want
to be stopped when so much of the fight was won. His heart might stop,
he couldn't help that, but till it did he wanted to go on fighting.
Balling his fists, he started to leave the sanctuary. Then he heard Adam
Pierce begin to sing.

He had a high tenor voice, mellow with a sweet touch of huskiness in it,
and he was singing "Drink to Me Only" at the top of his lungs.

He hadn't gone crazy! Summersby remembered the punishments they had
endured for making harmonious noises on the musical toy, the slap Adam
got for singing, the agonies the kids had gone through at Earth-type
melody. Adam had thought of the only weapon they could use--_song_.

"Or leave a kiss within the cup," roared Summersby, and without further
thought walked into the room. Watkins had chimed in now, breathless but
true of pitch.

Three eighteen-foot brutes were standing there. Vast hands were pressed
to bulbous heads, and agonized croaks came from gaping mouths. Whatever
a tune did to them, it wasn't pleasant. What weird auricular structure
could cringe so from a simple song? It did, and that was enough.

[Illustration]

Mrs. Full clutched his arm. "One of them struck Calvin with his prod,"
she wailed.

"Where is he?"

"Near that door."

Beginning to sing again, Summersby pelted for the prone milk inspector.
He picked him up and slung him, limp as a dead doe, over his left
shoulder. The others were gathering. He motioned them forward, and, as
Watkins joined him, ran on.

"Where'd you find your case?"

"On a table. Hope the dough is all in there." He glanced back. "They're
coming. We're racking 'em but they're game."

The woman, Adam and Villa were right behind them. As they reached the
midpoint of the third room, the dining hall, one of the beings staggered
through the door behind them. It had lost its goad and was flattening
its hands on its skull as Adam and Mrs. Full swung into "Dixie." It came
at them like a drunk, unable to navigate a straight course but
determined to reach them. It'll stamp on us, thought Summersby, easing
Full back a little on his arm. It only has to come down once or twice
with that Cadillac-sized foot and we're squashed ants. He sang.

"To live and die in...."

The second brute appeared, lurched over and fell on the table, caught up
a flat trencher and skimmed it at them. It was as big as a bathtub.
"Drop!" cried Summersby, went to one knee, felt the wind of the
trencher's passing ruffle his hair.

The next door was closed. Summersby slammed himself flat against the
wall and Adam, cat-lithe and fast, scrambled up over him, stood on his
shoulders and broke the controlling beam. The aliens came down the room
like two epileptic furies. "Sing!" said Watkins. "Everybody!" The door
slid aside with maddening slowness.

"Try a fast one," said Mrs. Full. "'Blow the Man Down.'" It was a funny
suggestion, coming from her. Summersby actually chuckled as he started
to sing.

"As I was a-walkin' down Paradise Street...."

       *       *       *       *       *

The third monster entered the dining hall, caught the full blast of
their five voices (Calvin Full was still out, but Villa was giving a
rum-tum-tum accompaniment), and sank to its knees, shaking its head as
though it had been sapped. One of the others made a desperate leap at
them, landing prone within a yard of Summersby. Melodies affect its
organ of equilibrium, he thought; poor thing's in agony. "I says to her,
Lollie, and how d'ye do...."

They were through the doorway now. The only pursuer still on its feet
was reeling after them, green rod still held in one shaking hand. Its
rust-red eyes were bulging out from their deep pits, and a thin trickle
of violet ichor came from its nostril. It made guttural, creaking
noises.

"Down at the end," said Watkins. "The brown box."

"Did you gimmick it?" asked Summersby.

"I think so. We have to take a chance. The main idea is easy. I guessed
at a few things, but I think it'll work. Unless one of our big pals
checked on it and mucked up my improvements."

It was twenty yards away; but so was the last of the monsters. Summersby
changed Full to his other arm and added his voice to the general clamor
for a bar or so, then asked Watkins the question that had been nagging
at him. "Can we all go? Or does somebody have to send the others?"

"I'll send you. I'm not too sure I can get through. The dials and
focusing lenses are on the outside, you know."

"I'll work it, then." They were at the table; he dropped Full and helped
Adam shove a chair to the table. The woman and Villa were singing
"Quiereme Mucho" in Spanish, their voices a trifle hoarse by now.

"You will like hell. It'd take me ten minutes to teach you how to work
the transmitter. Think we have ten minutes?"

The giant was standing still, weaving, pawing the air. It would not give
in to its pain and dizziness. If it fell now it might hit them. It was
that close.

"You've _got_ to show me. I have a bad heart. I'm due to die in a month
or two," said Summersby urgently.

Watkins stared at him. "Do you think you went through the past hours
with a rotten ticker? Don't make me laugh."

"It's true. I'm just waiting to die. You're no more than thirty-eight or
forty, and you've got twenty-two thousand dollars there," he said,
gesturing at the briefcase. "I don't give a damn about the morals of the
case. You're a decent fellow and you ought to have this break."

Watkins snarled, as he gave the valiantly singing Mrs. Full a hand up to
the chair seat, "You think I have a martyr complex? You think I _want_
to stay here? I'm elected, that's all! It's me stays or it's everybody!
I haven't the time to teach you to work it!" He hit Summersby a hard
blow on the chest. "Your heart's fixed up the same as Adam's eyes and
Cal's sinus. These gentry could turn your lungs upside down without
opening you up, they're that good. Go back to your woods. You're okay."

"No," said Summersby with stubborn rage. "I'm sick of waiting to die.
That's why I took the coaster ride in the first place. That's why I
wanted--"

"You're nuts. You have a heart to match your frame, Highpockets, if
you'd admit it. Hand up old Cal."

The monster took two wobbling steps toward them. They were all on the
chair, then clambering onto the table. Watkins swung open the door of
the brown box. "Fast," he said urgently, "fast!"

Adam had Cal by the armpits; he lugged him into the dark interior. Villa
jumped in, Mrs. Full following. Summersby confronted the safe-cracker.

"Show me how to work the machine. I don't believe they could mend a bad
heart."

Watkins handed him the briefcase with so unexpected a motion that
Summersby took it automatically. "Send it to Roscoe & Bates, if I don't
turn up. I guess I can't use it here." He put a hand under his coat. "Go
on, Highpockets."

"No!"

Watkins drew a gun, a small steel-blue thing that looked as wicked as a
rattler. Summersby had had no idea that he was carrying it. "Hop in,
tall man," said Watkins, grinning. "You're holding up the works."

Reluctantly Summersby backed away, stood in the door of the box. He
could jump Watkins, but if the mechanism were so complex, he would only
doom them all. "You're out of your head," he said.

"Sure."

Abruptly above the safe-cracker towered the fantastic form of their
forgotten enemy, reaching for them, one hand still to its head.
Summersby inflated his lungs.

"Should auld acquaintance be forgot," he roared tunefully, "and never
brought to mind!"

Everyone joined him. It was a startling cataclysm of sound, even to
Summersby. The alien tottered, hand outstretched; its mouth fell open,
its eyes popped, the violet blood coursed from its nostril; with a
shudder it clawed the air, honked grotesquely, and pitched forward, half
on and half off the table, where it lay gurgling. A spot on the side of
its skull, about the width of a gallon jug, on which the hair grew
sparse and gray, pulsed as though there were no bone beneath the skin,
as though a bellows within was puffing it in and out, in and out. Its
ear, thought Summersby. Probably we've wrecked it for good. Maybe the
thing will die. Then Watkins is a gone goose, if he stays. He was about
to lunge at the steady gun-hand when Adam and Villa yanked him backward
into the box. Adam was crying.

"Try and come too, Mr. Watkins, try and come too," he said.

Watkins laughed. "I'll make out okay, son. I like my hide pretty well."
He waved with the gun. "Be seeing you." Then he tossed the dark weapon
into the box and slammed the door.



XI

There was darkness, then bright sun. They stood on a street corner, and
Summersby could read the signs as plainly as Watkins must have read them
in the focusing lens of the matter transmitter on the unknown planet.

Broadway and 42nd Street. The five of them had clicked into being on the
busiest corner of New York.

"That old crook," said Adam, gulping. "He focused us here for a gag."

"I look _awful_," gasped Mrs. Full, and Summersby, glancing at her,
agreed. Like all of them, she had lost weight; her skin showed the
effects of a week's washing without soap; and her skirt and blouse were
mussed up, to say the least. All the men needed shaves. Calvin Full,
recovering gradually from the shock of the goad, and still supported by
Villa, looked like a Bowery wino.

"Is he coming?" asked Adam, addressing Summersby. "Will Watkins be along
too?"

"I don't know," said Summersby. He stared up at as much of the sky as he
could see beyond the block-high ads. "I hope so."

"My chili stand!" shouted Villa, suddenly awakening to the fact of New
York about him. "That no-good relief man! I've got to see what he's done
to it!" Pushing Calvin to Adam, who grasped him by an arm, the Mexican
waved hurriedly. "Come and see me," he said to all of them. "I'll give
you a bowl free." He hastened away into the crowd.

"We've got to see about our clothes at the hotel," said Mrs. Full. She
sounded apologetic. "I hope we'll see you again, Adam, and Mr.
Summersby."

"I doubt it," said Summersby. He looked at Full. "Coming out of it?" he
asked.

"Thanks," said Cal, nodding. He took his wife's hand. "Gave you my
address, didn't I?"

"I have it," said Summersby.

"Well, good-bye," said Mrs. Full.

"You did a fine job up there," said Adam Pierce. "I'm proud to have
known you, ma'am."

"Thank you, Adam. Good-bye." They were gone.

"I suppose you'll be going too," said Adam, somewhat wistfully.

"I guess so. You'll go home?"

"I guess so," Adam repeated. "My folks will be sore. They'll never
believe such a story. They'll think I ran wild or something."

Summersby, still looking upward, and wondering if he could be staring
blindly at the planet which Watkins must be trying to leave even now,
put a hand on his heart. "Was he right? They did fix up everyone else."
He laughed. It was the first time he had laughed normally in seven
months. "I could get into the rangers again," he said. "Adam, I've got
to see a doctor. I've got to find out something."

"Yes, sir," said Adam unhappily. Summersby looked at him. "Really
worried about your folks?"

"Yes, sir."

"I'll come home and tell them, if you like."

Adam said gratefully, "Mr. Summersby, you're a gentleman."

"No," said Summersby, "no."

"Yes, sir, you are. Can we wait just a minute more? Mr. Watkins might be
along any minute now."

"We'll wait."

After a while Adam said, "Remember that first feed we got up there, pies
and cookies and glass?"

"I remember it."

"They must have just aimed that machine at a bakery window here on
Earth, and taken glass and all."

"That's it."

"Probably it was called a smash-and-grab robbery, down here." He kicked
something, bent down and picked it up. It was the safe-cracker's gun. "I
didn't think he'd carry one," said the boy. He looked closer at it.
"God!"

"What is it?" Summersby shifted the briefcase and held out a hand. Adam
laid the weapon in his big palm. "He must have won it at the park that
day," Adam said. "That old crook! Old faker!"

Summersby held it up. It looked like a small automatic of blued steel,
but it was plastic. He turned it over. A pencil-sharpener.

Summersby grunted. "A toy," he said, giving it back to Adam. "Nothing
but a kid's toy."

[Illustration]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Enormous Room, by 
Horace Leonard Gold and Robert Wilson Krepps

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ENORMOUS ROOM ***

***** This file should be named 32128-8.txt or 32128-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/1/2/32128/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
