The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Animated Pinup, by Lewis Parker

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Animated Pinup

Author: Lewis Parker

Release Date: May 12, 2010 [EBook #32345]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ANIMATED PINUP ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                          The Animated Pinup

                            By Lewis Parker

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from Imagination Stories of
Science and Fantasy July 1953. Extensive research did not uncover any
evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: You're not expected to believe this story since it's the kind
of thing that science calls impossible. But anyway, she happened. Who?
Why--]


To make it clear how normal everything was when the evening started out,
I'll let you in at the time Willy phoned me. I was in my apartment with
a lady from down the hall....

I had asked her what she liked and she'd purred, "You." I had asked her
with soda or gingerale and she'd said, "Straight," so I'd obliged and
poured myself a triple too and sank into the sofa beside her.

The phone rang.

"Oh damn," she said.

"Your earlobes--" I began.

"The phone, James."

"Your shoulders--"

"James? Don't you think you'd better answer it?"

So I sighed and handed her the glass and told her not to hold it till I
got back or she'd melt the ice. I crossed the room to the telephone.

"City morgue," I said.

"Uh--unh--"

"Hullo Willy," I said, recognizing the stammer.

While he gulped and stuttered a couple more times I threw a kiss to the
lady. She failed to throw it back because she was placing a bet with
herself that Willy was short for Wilhelmina.

Willy straightened his tongue out. "Jim, I've got to see you."

Now Willy was a nervous little guy from faulty thyroid but neurotic in a
bearable way. He sounded even more upset than he usually did. I didn't
particularly like him, but he was a topflight illustrator and I liked
the way he drew women, and besides I'd been trying for a year to tag him
for our agency. All the slicker art agencies were after him, that's how
good he was. We'd made the highest bid for him but he still had this bug
in his noodle for free-lancing, which showed he had more business sense
than the rest of his ilk but which wasn't doing my position at the
agency any good. I'd been joed to bag him.

Which was why I hesitated and reconsidered the impulse to brush him off.
This was the first time he had definitely asked to see me. Sunday
midnight is one hell of a time to suddenly decide to see a dogging
agent, but like I said Willy was neurotic. So I just tested the impulse.

"Well, Willy," I said, "I'm pretty busy at the moment looking after the
interests of the agency artists. They always come first, you know. Could
it wait--"

"Jim, I've got to see you. It's--It's driving me nuts trying to figure
out what to do."

"Tax trouble? Or maybe one of your models?"

"No, nothing like that. Listen. Will you come over tonight?"

I let my instincts juggle the stress between pleasure and business. Both
were practical, well-balanced personal interests. The thunderous night
was young and the lady had nice earlobes and my apartment had that
feeling about it. On the other hand the little fair-haired artist was in
a jam and if I played fairy godmom bigger and better apartments and
earlobes were in the offing from the agency.

So I made the mistake of my life.

I said, "I'll be there in half an hour," and hung up.

"_Jim_-mee," the lady said. She was pouting, so I pinched her earlobe
and patted her shoulders and bemoaned the tyranny of the business world
and helped her into her coat. She went back to her own apartment. I
tidied up the place, stacked the etchings in their corner, and took a
cab outside.

       *       *       *       *       *

I tossed that part of it in to make it clear that on the face and the
underneath of it I could be readily classed as a normal, practical sort
of a guy.

I am. I shun unnatural, illogical things, like mysteries, or falsies, or
counterfeit bills. Or fourth dimensions. I like an item right on the
table where I can eye it and touch it and say, "That's a spade," or,
"That's a buck." If there's water on Mars I'll believe it when I drink
it, but until then I'll say, "So what's with Mars? It's one hell of a
long way off."

You see what I'm driving at? With me, James Gilbert Crisp, things are
either down to earth or they're nowhere. I'd never admit messing around
with something I couldn't put my hands on. If I touch it, I accept it,
and if it's willing I'm able.

"Jim!" said Willy, grabbing my hat. "Come in, come in!"

I grinned at the little guy assuringly and shook the rain from my coat
and tossed it on an easel. He shunted a chair at me and seated himself
nervously, rubbing his neck, on the other side of a monster coffee table
loaded with paints, bottles and oil-stained cartons. I was familiar with
this studio, the working half of Willy's ranch-style chalet. The studio
itself was as big as a barn and had more windows than walls; rain pecked
at the glass in the northerly-exposed roof.

Willy was tidy for an artist. Most of the boys on the agency's hook have
la Boheme delusions that class them apart from us hucksters; their
studios, which we see in spite of ourselves, _look_ like barns. But
Willy's neuroses, although conventional, were bearable because in a lot
of ways he was practical. He kept things where he could put his hands on
them. Like the cigarettes he now fished from a box on the coffee table
labeled 'caseins'.

I shifted uncomfortably; these new-fangled chairs they twist out of wire
will never replace the Morris. Willy drew furiously on the fag he had
forgotten to offer me. It was taking him longer than usual to warm up to
his subject. I shifted again.

"What's the problem, Willy?" I asked.

He jumped, then looked at me with his scared-spaniel eyes, butted his
smoke and reached for another. Just watching him was giving me the
heebies, but I flashed my old fairy godmom smile.

"Jim," he said finally, "I called you because, well, you're a practical
guy and can face things in a practical way. I've got to tell _somebody_
about it. I'm--it's driving me crazy, Jim."

I stifled a yawn and fixed my smile and found my mind wandering back to
the lady's earlobes. Now I'm not against a guy letting down his hair,
but I was sure that with Willy it couldn't possibly amount to anymore
than another fruitless crush on a model. He had them frequently, but
they always fizzled out before the girl got around to compromising him.
He was always a foot short of them, but he had money; the usual solution
was little more than another illo assignment which required a horsey
model of another color. I'd begun to suspect that the cause of neuroses
in little artists like Willy was too many here-now gone-tomorrow
beautiful babes. Transference, or something like that. It makes them so
dizzy they forget which is the real entity--the canvas reproduction or
the model. This and other things like a pithless pituitary loosens the
screws, and then they make from Bohemia. I don't pretend to be a
psychologist, but that's the way it adds up.

       *       *       *       *       *

So I was half-thinking of getting the lady at the apartment to give
Willy a real down-to-earth tumble when he started his spiel. I must have
missed a few paragraphs of his monologue, because when I caught up to
the subject I was away off base.

"... so I've got to give it up, Jim. If I don't there's no telling what
it would lead to. You could--help me, with your drag at the agency you
represent. I could do account execking, or maybe be a consultant art
director-without-portfolio, anything--"

"Whoa down, Willy," I said, startled. "Give up illustrating? Just
because of a dame--"

Willy shook his head sadly. "She's got nothing to do with anything
_else_ I draw. She isn't at all like the models. Oh, I know what a goop
I've been about them, but Red has cured me." He paused and looked at me
quizzically, shaking his head. "I knew you had a level head, Jim--that's
exactly why I've told you this. But even so, your reaction--" He
frowned. His hurt-dog eyes narrowed resentfully. "You don't believe me."

I cursed myself inwardly for not having paid more attention to him, but
his voice was the kind that would put a sympathetic Father Confessor to
sleep if he concentrated too hard on it. I'd been prepared to let him
get it off his skinny chest, pat him on the back and tell him to leave
everything to old Jim Fixit. But the quitting business was a looper. He
was too canvas-happy to give it up without a fight.

"Look," I said to cover up the fact that my ears had been closed, "what
you told me may seem unusual to you, but to me it's just one of those
things that aren't quite what they seem. Now, uh--go over it again in
detail and I'll apply myself to it completely from your angle this time.
Tell me _exactly_ where Red fits in, and where the--uh--trouble
started."

Willy slapped his knees and looked even more forlorn, reaching for a
smoke while he still had one in his mouth. "Sorry I doubted you, Jim,
but you can understand how I feel about it. Look--"

He stood up, butted the fresh fag, and walked across the room to the
drawing desk where he did his layouts.

"The best thing to do is simply show you," he said. I sighed and dragged
my chair over and sat to one side of him. He pulled out a layout pad,
opened his pastels and arranged them deliberately beside it. I wondered
how he could show me his love-troubles this way, unless it was by
diagrams.

"Nothing happens," he said, waving a pastel stick under my nose, "until
I've used the three basic colors and signed the illo. If there isn't a
balance of the three basics it's no good. That's why I arranged the
pastels that way."

He naturally assumed I knew what he was talking about. It meant nothing
more to me than a freak technique he'd developed. That signature
business sounded--neurotic.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now this part of my story is important. Until he finished that sketch I
was the normal, practical guy I was telling you about. Nothing fizzed on
me unless it added up to four and I could feel the two and two of it. A
buck was a buck, a girl was a girl--

His grey pastel flew over the paper and as usual I marvelled at how
these guys could do it. Like the saying goes, all I can draw is flies
and rubber checks, and frequently a blank. I've seen a lot of artists do
their stuff, but none of them come up to Willy. You've seen his illos in
most of the big slicks--you know, the guy and gal in all angles on the
yellow beach under a pink sky, and the story title reads "When Will You
Come Back, Dearest?", or the cola series on the back cover where the
girl swigs and the guy gawks at her bathing suit, that sort of stuff.
The fat accounts, they all came running for Willy. With him on the
payroll the agency could have made a fortune.

I was considering ways to broach this subject so it would tie in with
the poor guy's dilemma when he started working the third color into the
sketch. Naturally it was a dame; he could draw them with his eyes shut.
The third color went into the bathing suit. He smudged chalk on his
finger and touched the sketch with quick strokes, moulding the form, and
what a form. I leaned forward, and half stood over his chair, marvelling
at the way he did it. Then, applying a dough rubber to pick out
highlights and stray smudges, he leaned back and reached for a pencil.
Noticing how tensed he was, I sank back into my chair and lit a
cigarette.

"There," he whispered, his hand poised with the pencil at the bottom
left-hand corner.

"So now what gives?" I asked. "Is she the--"

"So now I sign it." He looked around at me, spaniel-eyed. I gathered
that he was reluctant to sign it. I wanted him to get on with it and
explain how it tied in. I must have looked impatient.

"So go ahead," I said. "Sign it."

He signed it.

The girl got up off the paper and brushed herself off.

       *       *       *       *       *

I felt the cigarette smoke burning my eyes, but was too frozen to close
them. I must have gone as white as the paper the girl got up off of.
Willy touched my shoulder. I looked blearily at his spaniel eyes, which
were puzzled.

"Didn't you believe me?" he asked.

[Illustration]

I made a noise in my throat, and suddenly wanted desperately to be back
in my apartment. Anywhere. But I knew that if I stood up my legs would
fold. So I just stared at the girl while my heart flopped like a beached
fish.

She smiled at me, then turned to Willy.

"Who's your friend?" she asked in a voice proportionate to her size,
which was about a foot.

Willy looked at his hands. "Just a friend." Turning to me he said
imploringly, "You _did_ believe me, didn't you, Jim?"

I felt like asking him what the hell difference it made whether or not
I'd believed him, but I merely swallowed and cleared my throat. I worked
my jaws. I took the cigarette from my mouth and looking at it, then at
my hand, moving it back and forth to adjust the focus. I didn't want to
do any thinking about it because I knew I'd be scared senseless by the
conclusions. So I made my mind a throbbing blank and to the cigarette
said the first thing that popped into my head.

"She's pretty."

The girl smiled coyly and seated herself on the blank layout pad.

"Of course I'm pretty," she said. "I'm Willy's ideal. He wouldn't have
drawn me if I weren't." She blinked her eyes demurely.

Willy just sat there looking woebegone, so I went along with it.

"What's your name?"

"Red."

It fitted. The first basic had gone into her hair. I felt myself
beginning to twitch. The reaction was setting in again. I found myself
wishing that Willy would do something, and not just sit there with his
jaw drooping to the floor. I wondered if he could erase her with his
dough rubber. I clung to that thought because it seemed funny. I started
to laugh. The girl pouted. Willy looked up at me and frowned.

"What's so funny," Red asked.

I took a deep breath and gritted my teeth, but the shakes were coming
and this time they wouldn't be deferred. I wheeled from the chair and
charged for the door. Willy was up and grabbing at my arm.

"Don't go, Jim! Please! I've only started to--"

I swung around at him and threw his hand off, panic making my actions
loose. Then I saw his spaniel eyes, sad, pleading. I glowered at him and
ran my hand through my hair. Looking back at the pint-sized beauty I
socked my fist into my hand and stalked back to the drawing desk. I
reached out for her. She squeaked and cowered away.

Willy let out a holler that just about scared the pants off both of us,
and was tugging at my arm again.

"I just want to _touch_ her," I roared. "I won't kill her."

"You touch her like that and you _will_ kill her," Willy cried. "Sit
down, will you? Listen to me--"

"If I can feel her with my hands," I said, still whoozy but cooling
down, "I'll believe she's there. Otherwise I go home and sleep it off."
I rubbed my forehead. "This kind of stuff isn't for me, kid. You keep
your bloody mirages--"

"Please, Jim."

       *       *       *       *       *

I scowled and dropped into the chair. Willy fumbled for his cigarettes
and offered one to me and then in his nervousness proffered one to the
redhead, who had held her palms pressed to her ears while we shouted at
each other. Red shook her head, smiling. Willy chuckled his
embarrassment and sat down in the other chair. We were both facing the
desk but I couldn't bring myself to look at the girl.

Suddenly she leapt from the desk and was standing in my lap. While I
groaned and held my breath she stretched her arm out.

"You may touch me, if it will make you feel better."

I glanced at Willy, who nodded, and touched the point of my finger to
her palm. She was there all right. I drew my hand away quickly, and she
laughed. It sounded precisely like the voice of a full-length girl
coming from another room. I studied her with my chin resting on my fist,
and saw that she was indeed a beautiful creature. Full-size, she'd be a
knockout; I'd be falling, as the saying goes, all over her. But a foot
high!

Then I remembered that Willy had sketched her. She was a drawing.
Tri-dimensional, but nonetheless a figment of Willy's imagination. Yet
she was solid. I was getting confused again, trying to tie it, so to
fend off a return of the shakes I forced another blank into my mind. It
was easier, this time. The whole thing was so ridiculous it was
intriguing.

"Who is she, Willy?" I asked. It was easier to talk to him.

"Like I told you. Red. My dream girl."

I looked at him. "Yeah. M-hmm." I looked down at Red. She was sitting on
my kneecap, combing her hair. "So just what seems to be the problem?"

His eyes were pathetic. "Again, like I told you. I'm too big for her."

"Yeah," I said. "Uh-huh." It had to be as simple as that. Something
practical-like; for Willy, like I said, was basically a practical guy.
Or practically a basic guy. I frowned at him, for the answer was also a
simple one.

"Then why don't you draw her full size?" I asked.

Willy looked miserable. "I do."

I said, "Mmm?"

"I _do_ draw her full-size. That's Red's full size. Twelve inches."

I nodded, following his lips.

"Once," he continued, "I drew her a little larger."

From her perch on my kneecap Red said, coolly, "Don't you dare try
_that_ again."

"No, dear," Willy said, sadly.

I rubbed my head. To Willy I said, "You can't--project her?"

Willy started to answer, but Red interrupted. She looked piqued.

"Of course he can't project me. That would be a distortion of myself. It
wouldn't," she yawned, ruffling her red locks, "be me."

I rubbed my head again. I couldn't think of anything to say.

Willy shifted. "I can draw her smaller," he said. "But that would make
it even worse, of course."

I nodded. "Of course." Because it seemed practical to say it, I said it:
"But wouldn't that be a distortion too?"

"Of course not," Red said, and I had the fleeting impression of being
faced by a school teacher in the minute end of a telescope. "Minimized
elements are true elements, merely condensed. Maximized elements are
bloated, therefore distorted." She sniffed. "Any figment knows that."

I tossed it around in my floundering mind, but it still came out the way
it sounded. There was another silence. I could see that the two of them
were losing faith in my godmaternal fairyhood. So just to keep the
conversation jogging, I tried another tack. To Willy I said:

"If Red's a figment of your imagination, why didn't you imagine her a
more practical size in the first place?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Willy chewed on it for a couple minutes. Red turned away in disgust to
leap from my kneecap to Willy's. She seated herself primly and began
fussing with her infinitesimal nails. Willy said, "After all, she does
have a mind of her own, Jim. She wanted to be imagined the size she is,
so--" He looked at me and shrugged.

"Why," demanded the little woman, "should I go up to him? Why can't he
come down to me?"

I was getting riled. "You love him, don't you?"

She frowned. "He loves me, doesn't he?"

This had a familiar feminine ring to it which balked pursuit of _that_
subject. I wouldn't have believed that Willy possessed such a dogmatic
objective imagination. If _I_ wanted to conjure up a babe I'd make sure
beforehand that she came out the way I whimmed her. Red had a mind of
her own, which was the negative, or feminine, part of Willy's mind.

All these thoughts popped up in my head because I had to keep this in a
practical light to insure against a return of the shakes. If I started
considering the _impractical_ side of it I'd recognize it in its true
light, which was unmitigated madness.

Willy and Red remained silent, inferring that I was to carry the ball.

"What I'm dim about, Willy, is how this ties in with your professional
livelihood. Why do you have to give up art?"

"Isn't it obvious?"

I shook my head meekly. Willy sighed and reached for a pastel stick. He
sketched quickly on the layout pad, first in greys, then filling in with
the three basics. It was a martini glass, and the first basic was the
cherry in it. Then he addressed his signature under the sketch.

He picked up the martini glass and drained it.

Looking apologetically at my ogle he picked up the pastels again and
said, "Sorry. Care for one?"

I said sure. You have to go all the way or nowhere with these things.
Besides, a drink might stop the rumbling in my stomach. "Make it a rye,"
I said. "Triple."

He sketched it and signed it and handed it to me, and I said, "I see
what you mean. Everything you sketch, huh?" The rye was good.

Willy sighed morosely. "Anything in color. And I made my name in color
work. I can't do a black and white for beans."

"Why don't you--"

"Leave off my signature?" He smiled wanly. "You know better than that,
Jim."

I did. He had a big name, and that, as is the way of commerce, is what
the buyers paid for. Things looked hopeless for Willy. We sat. Red got
up and stretched, then adjusted her halter, into which Willy had put too
much imagination. She jumped from Willy's knee to the drawing desk, and
stretched out on the pad. Willy looked at her hungrily, and she smiled
warmly back at him. I was beginning to get that "third party"
feeling--and then it hit me.

I leaned forward excitedly. "We will make a million!" I roared.

They stared at me. Coolly. I went to the back of the chair again. After
a few minutes their contemptuous stares got my neck.

"Okay, okay," I muttered. "We _won't_ make a million."

They waited expectantly for a compatible solution. To show that I was
still working on it I started talking again.

"Let's sum up. You and Red want to get together. Which is only right,
because you literally belong to each other. Check. But you can't,
because Red's too small and you're too tall."

"Check," they said simultaneously. I stumbled on.

"Okay." I addressed Red. "Let's take you first. You are
your--uh--natural size. You are satisfied with it. You cannot be
projected up because it would distort you."

Red nodded. "I would consider it indecent."

"And anyway, you are satisfied with your element. You prefer it to
Willy's."

"Immensely more. So would Willy."

"And what is your element?" I asked.

"Willy's mind."

       *       *       *       *       *

I ignored that because it led to the shakes department. I turned to
Willy. I was getting excited.

"Now, Willy. You are your natural size. You are unsatisfied with it,
because--uh--your peculiar talent is lousing up your profession. What is
more, Red's size and element is the preference manifested in your mind.
Her element is doubly preferred, then, as against your own, by both of
you, uh--"

"Making the preference unanimous," Willy suggested.

"Right," I said, pushing the thing out of my mind now that I'd stumbled
through it. I spread my arms and gave what I hoped was a confident
smile.

"There's your answer," I said.

I got blank looks.

"It's obvious!" I said to Willy. "You go to Red's element!"

Willy's meager features were perplexed, but Red caught the idea. She
jumped excitedly back on her beau's lap. "Don't you see what he means,
Willy? Draw yourself to my size!"

That is a verbatim report of what led up to Willy propping a full-length
mirror in an easel and making a twelve-and-a-half inch full-length
portrait of himself, with me drinking triple ryes while Red directed
which of Willy's features should manifest the most prominence. It was a
very good likeness of himself as he might have looked had he been the
physical Adonis his mind pictured him as, which was only right,
considering the element he was journeying to. Red insisted he wear a
bathing suit that more or less matched her own.

When he was finished, he stepped back, naturally, to admire it.

"That's terrific!" I said, clapping him on the back.

"Watch on whom you're spilling the rye," Red flared. I apologized, and
in my philanthropic state stooped to kiss her. She backed away.

"A kiss for the bride," I said, pouting. "That's all."

She laughed. "You'd swallow me." But she approached and stood up on
tip-toe and bussed my nose.

"Break it up," Willy said, a new authority in his voice. "I've got to
put my signature to the sketch." He tapped impatiently. "Red. Lie down
beside the sketch."

Red flushed and placed her hands on her hips. "Now look here, Willy.
Don't you go getting too big for your boots!"

I guffawed. "It's the other way 'round! He'll be too _small_ for his
boots."

This diverted the quarrel enough for Willy to give me final
instructions, which he did from a prone position on the floor. "Is Red
lying down beside the sketch, Jim?"

"Yup," I said, squinting at the once-again two-dimensioned Red-head.

"Now I'll transfer my mind to the sketch. I'll move an arm when I'm
there."

He closed his eyes, and a straining expression twisted his features.

"Am I there yet?"

"Nope," I said, bringing my eyes to focus three inches from the sketch.

A few grunting moments passed. "Am I there yet?"

"Nope," I said, stifling a yawn.

"Something's wrong," he said. I turned to look down at him. His
straining expression was now from thought. I turned back to the layout
pad, and jumped.

"What's taking him so long?" Red demanded, sitting up.

"He can't transfer," I said.

She gave me the schoolmarm expression, hands on hips. "Haven't you
killed him yet?"

"Mmm?" I asked.

"You've got to _kill_ him, silly!"

I shook my head. "Unh-unh. Not me."

She started to cry. "I thought you _wanted_ us to get together!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Feeling like a louse, I turned to look down at Willy. "She says I've got
to kill you."

"How?"

Red had come to the edge of the drawing desk. "What does it matter,
how?" she said sternly. "You know perfectly well that the only way to
get rid of the body you're in is to die." She looked back at me. "What
are you waiting for?"

I rubbed my head. "Somehow it doesn't seem--"

She sat back and wailed. Willy jumped from the floor and cupped her
tenderly in his hands. "Don't cry, sweet. After all, it _is_ asking a
lot of Jim."

"He gave us the solution," she cried, "and now he's backing out of his
part in it!"

"Well," said Willy, "he wasn't expected to know he'd have to kill me--"

"How _else_ can you leave the body you're in?" she sobbed. "What did he
expect you'd do? Occupy two bodies at the same time?"

Willy looked at me. I shrugged. "Have to confess I hadn't thought of
it," I muttered, only half aware that they had me over a barrel. I was
half tempted to ask Willy to fill my rye glass with pastels again, but
it seemed an imposition at the moment.

"Oh, what the hell," I said committingly. "I'm not the kind of guy to
let a friend down over a technicality!"

Red leapt to my lap and clambered up my shirtfront. "I _knew_ you
wouldn't let us down!" she said happily, and bussed my chin. Before I
could be modest about it she had bounded to the desk-top and was
stretching herself out beside Willy's drawing of himself. Willy and I
stared from her to each other.

"Well," Willy said. "Let's get to it."

I won't elaborate on the details on my act of friendship. I killed Willy
in as gentle a manner as possible, and when I turned back to the layout
pad they were sitting there embracing. Willy-the-Figment stood up
proudly and extended his hand, the one Red wasn't clinging to.

"Thanks, Jim," he said, when I had shaken it warmly with my finger-tip.
"I knew when I phoned you tonight that you were just the one who would
come up with an unselfish, practical solution to my dilemma. I'd like to
say--"

"Oh, come on, come on, Willy," Red said impatiently, pulling him back to
the pad. "Jim knows how much we appreciate his help. Come _on_!"

"Oh, very well," said Willy, winking at me. I winked back. "Lucky sti--"
I began, but then remembered Willy's corpse. That brought a nagging
thought to my mind, but Willy and Red were lying side-by-side, half
submerged in their second dimension, and Red was beckoning impatiently,
pointing to the dough rubber beside her.

"Hurry up," she said. "Rub us out."

I rubbed them out.

Willy's body vanished from the floor as I dropped the eraser. And just
as suddenly I was sober. Cold, shaking sober.

Where was Willy? I looked around the room. Nobody but me. Me and my
delirium tremens.

I got out of that apartment fast and headed for a long line of drinks. I
had a big case of murder to wash away. Or did I?...

... So you see, that's how it is. Willy's gone, and nobody knows where.
Nobody but me. And I don't know either. I keep thinking of what Red said
about her "fourth dimension" world. I think about it a lot.

I've given up my job at the agency. My apartment too. I got a new one.
Willy's. It's just as it was that night. Right down to the last pastel
and brush. It's going to stay that way too. Everything just as it was.
Every gadget that Willy used in his work.

I've got a use for everything in that apartment. I've got to _know_ what
happened. And there's only one real way to find out.

I spend my days thinking about my ideal woman. Each day she gets more
vivid in my mind.

My evenings are spent at Art School. I'm learning fast....





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Animated Pinup, by Lewis Parker

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ANIMATED PINUP ***

***** This file should be named 32345.txt or 32345.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/3/4/32345/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
