The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Black Tide, by Arthur G. Stangland

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Black Tide

Author: Arthur G. Stangland

Illustrator: Ed Valigursky

Release Date: May 18, 2010 [EBook #32412]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BLACK TIDE ***




Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from IF Worlds of Science Fiction March 1953.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed.


                            The BLACK TIDE


                        By Arthur G. Stangland


                     Illustrated by Ed Valigursky


     _Space in its far dark reaches can be fickle with a man; it
      can shatter his dreams, fill him with fear and hate. It can
      also cure a man--if he is strong enough._

       *       *       *       *       *




It filled all the ebony depths of space. Twirling slowly in awesome
majesty, the meteor scintillated like a massive black diamond. And
with its onrush came a devastating sense of doom. He looked
everywhere. To the front, to the side, and below--there was no escape.
Transfixed, he stared at the great rock flashing in the fire of myriad
suns as it--

Bill Staker, passenger rocket captain for Interplanetary Lines, came
fully awake in his New York hotel room. For a minute, he lay unmoving
on his bed, savoring the delicious sensation of weight. No queazy
stirring in the pit of his belly for lack of gravity, no forced
squinting because of muscular re-orientation.

With a muttered curse he unwound himself from his covers and sat up.
For a moment he rested his head in his hands, thinking, only a
nightmare, thank God, only a nightmare.

He lifted his head, and found cold sweat on his hands. Then sighing in
relief he swung his feet over the edge of his bed.

A glance at the clock showed 10:45 p.m. Monday, June 10th, 2039.
Heavily, he clumped across the room in the peculiar flat-footed gait
of a spaceman accustomed to magnetic contact shoes. Cigarette in hand
he sank into a heavy chair, touched a button on the arm, then sat back
to watch the telescreen.

It was a rehash of the day's news. In nasal tones a senator was
accusing the Republicrats of raising taxes. Then followed scenes from
a spectacular fire. Suddenly, Bill's drooping eyelids popped open.

[Illustration: _The small meteor ripped through the_ Space Bird's
_crew compartment, blinding the radar scope and severing communication
with Earth_.]

A commentator was saying, "... the two rockets of the Staker Space
Mining Company, ready for a scouting trip to the asteroid Beta
Quadrant."

A close-up of Tom Staker followed. Tall, rangy, with blond hair like
straw in the wind. Bill laid his cigarette in a tray and with critical
interest leaned forward to look at his brother.

"We figure to find uranium," Tom was saying, with a glance toward the
vertical rockets, "all through the Beta Quadrant. Our departure is
waiting on the return of my brother, Bill, from his Mars-to-Earth
run."

A reporter asked Tom, "Private enterprise is unique in these days of
virtual monopolies. What's the story behind it?"

"Well, our great-grandfather, George Staker, believed passionately in
private enterprise," Tom began. "Somewhere around 1952 or 1953 he
established a trust fund for his third generation descendants to
finance any project they think worthwhile. And he got an ironclad
guarantee from the government that the trust fund for private
enterprise would be honored in the future. You see, my ancestor was
quite a romanticist. In one of his books entitled 'The Philosophy of
Science' he says 'People of this dawning Atomic Age little realize
they are living in a vast dream. A dream that is slowly taking
objective shape. A tool here, a part there, a plan on some drafting
table. Men of ideas are pointing the way, structuring the inner dream
world of a generation. Even today's science fiction literature
contains important ideas for the dreams-become-reality of tomorrow.'"
Tom finished up, "With our Project Venture, Bill and I are going to
bring a dream into reality--making a little on the side, of course!"

The commentator ended his interview with: "And so, we await with great
interest the carrying out of George Staker's dream, a man whose
Twentieth Century ideas of private enterprise have blown a breath of
fresh air into an age of dull dreams and little imagination."

Bill Staker pressed the control button, darkening the screen. "Dream
boy. Tom, you damned fool." He got up and scuffed into the bathroom to
stare into the mirror. Twenty-five years old, and already lines were
grooving both sides of his nostrils. Tousled black hair like brush
hanging over a high bank, and ridged creases in his forehead. Little
lumps of flesh bulging over the corners of his mouth from constant
tension. The tension of outwitting space on each trip 'tween the
planets. But worst of all was the look in his gray eyes. The look that
never went away anymore. The look of a man who has spent too much time
staring into the enigma of the Universe and--thinking.

"I'm scared--scared as hell!" he blurted at his reflection. "And if I
don't get hold of myself, I'm through--washed up!"

Space was no place for a man with imagination--too much imagination.
You stared into the empty blackness here, you stared into the inky
blackness there, behind you the Earth a tiny pinpoint, the Earth that
meant rock solid footing, the caress of wind and land in all
directions. But out there in the aching void you raced for Mars like a
mouse scuttling across a lighted floor. Raced because of what you
couldn't see, couldn't fathom. Yet, you knew _It_ was out there,
staring back inscrutably.

He rubbed the flat of his hand across his right cheek, sighing from
emotional weariness. Then he scuffed back into the room. On the way he
collected a bottle of bourbon, mixer and glass, and dropped into the
big chair.

As he worked on the bottle, all the anxiety and apprehension in him
faded. Once he stared at the bottom of his empty glass. Funny how a
guy could panic all of a sudden. He remembered it clearly now. Riding
into town yesterday from the rocket port, he started brooding over
details of Project Venture. Suddenly, an overwhelming black tide of
fear worse than he had ever experienced confronted him. Like a man on
the verge of insanity he licked his dry lips, staring about him and
feeling as if something strange and terrible were taking possession of
his mind. And in the middle of his spell a cloud blacker than space
itself started reaching for him. That was when he yelled to the
startled bus driver to let him out at this hotel. Maybe he could get
hold of himself here.

Now, his arms sprawled over the sides of the heavy chair, he drifted
off into a snoring stupor.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the morning he awoke to a splitting headache. Somehow it helped to
hold his head between both hands and swear at it in a running mutter.
Finally he roused himself to go to the bathroom for a cold shower.
Afterward, donning his powder blue Captain's uniform, he went down to
breakfast.

He dawdled over crisp bacon and eggs, glanced at morning editions, and
all the while the ashes of last night's emotional holocaust drifted
through him. Drifted in fitful vagrant thoughts. He should have said
no that first day a year ago. The big law firm made a great to do over
the old document from his ancestor. Unique, they said. The chance of a
lifetime. And by the end of the first meeting Tom was all fired up.
Mining atomic power metals in the asteroid belt would bring the
biggest returns, he said. They would be the only ones allowed to
compete with the Asteroid Mining Corporation monopoly. And now Tom was
building up public excitement in the venture, as if it were a circus.
The damned fool. Why had he let his brother talk him into--

Suddenly, his line of thought snapped, and he was acutely aware of
staring eyes.

He looked to his left, then felt a warm flush technicolor his cheeks.

"Christy!"

Her blond curls making a soft halo around her jauntily raked hat, the
space hostess from his ship gave him a warm smile. She was adequately
stacked, Bill reflected, but there was levelheaded firmness and
resolution in her too. That was why she was hard to handle.

"Good morning, Bill."

He didn't like the accusing gleam in her eye but he was glad to see
her.

"Sit down, Christy. Have some coffee." He held her hands a moment,
then eased her into the opposite chair.

He tried disarming her with a show of great enthusiasm. But the way
she settled herself into the seat, all the while regarding him with
those clear penetrating blue eyes, told him she was going on no snipe
hunt.

"When you kissed me goodbye at the port yesterday, Bill, you said you
were going directly to the field to be with Tom." It wasn't a
statement--it was an accusation.

With an elaborate show of casualness he shrugged his shoulders. "Well,
I was fagged out from this last trip. Decided I'd do better getting a
full night's rest by myself at a hotel."

The waiter brought her coffee, and she left it to cool. She folded her
long tapering fingers on the table, and a delicate lift to her fine
brows gave her an expression of sympathetic concern.

Her smile was regretful. "Rocket men don't drink, Bill. You know it
too. Bad for muscular coordination."

He said in some surprise, "You mean it's that loud?"

"Uh-huh." Christy leaned forward. "What is it, Bill? You haven't been
yourself for weeks. You looked haggard yesterday and when you left the
ship you were almost running, as if trying to escape from something.
And now this strange avoidance of Tom. He got hold of me this morning
early, wanting to know where you were. And I guess it's pretty
important that he sees you, Bill. Seems there's been trouble at the
field."

It was as if someone had prodded him in an agonizingly sore place and
he reacted instinctively. He let his knife clatter on his plate, aware
that he was dramatizing himself.

"When I'm ready for a woman's sticking her nose into my affairs, I'll
send her a special invitation!"

Christy's delicate nostrils flared, and her bosom rose and fell
rapidly. Then she seemed to get hold of herself. "I'm sorry if you got
that impression, Bill. I was only trying to help you both."

Cherishing his irritation, Bill went on, "Seems to me you're bending
over backward helping Tom, playing messenger, private eye--"

Christy broke in with a catch in her throat, "Oh, Bill, please! Let's
not quarrel as soon as we get back."

Bill shoved his dishes aside, the tone of her voice reaching into him
to dampen down the fires of anger. Then he managed a slow faint grin.

"Okay, Christy." He reached for the check, saying, "Well, if you can
stand my company, would you like to come along out to the field?"

With her eyes glistening, she answered, "I'd love to."

       *       *       *       *       *

The private rocket landing field of the Staker Space Mining Company
was an hour's drive north of the city. Three miles from the field they
made out the two gleaming snouts of the rockets pointing skyward. Then
as they approached the edge of the field, Bill turned off toward a two
story frame structure that served as office and warehouse.

Bill said, "Might as well check to see if Tom is in the office
first."

At the door Bill poked his head in and shouted up the stairwell,
"Hi--Tom?"

A chair scraped, and footsteps sounded across the upstairs floor.
"Yeah--that you, Bill? C'mon up!"

They found Tom at a desk before a wide window view of the field. On
the office walls hung big graphs of fuel consumption curves,
trajectory plots from Earth to the asteroid belt, ballistics
computations, oxygen consumption curves per unit metabolism per man.

Christy looking at the rockets, said, "Gee, Tom, they look beautiful.
Like monsters straining their tethers."

Tom looked up at the girl's profile, and to Bill who was watching, he
bore the look of a man savoring what he saw.

"Yes, they are. That first one's mine, the _Space Bird_. The other is
Bill's, the _Space Dragon_."

Bill cast a professional eye over the charts and graphs on the wall,
while far down in his subconscious a sharp twinge of jealousy
fulminated, tangling with his fears of space in a hybrid monstrosity.
Then like lava in a plugged volcano his obsession found a new outlet.
The fear of space now came up disguised as hatred for Tom.

In an unusually calm voice Bill said, "Well, I see you have everything
just about completed."

"Yeah," Tom glanced up with a significant look. "Someone else was
interested in those charts and graphs too the other day. Someone who
didn't bother to use the door."

"What d'you mean--somebody break in?"

Tom nodded. "Yep. Jimmied a window downstairs. But I don't think they
got anything, because the door to the office was still locked when the
watchman surprised them. They got away in the dark."

Christy's eyes grew large and round. "Who do you suppose it was?"

Hitching his long body erect, Tom said with a gesture of his right hand,
"Well, there's only one outfit interested in our destination--and that's
Asteroid Mining."

"Good heavens," Christy said in great surprise. "You don't mean a big
corporation like that would stoop so low?"

Tom smiled at her. "With a monopoly on power metals Asteroid has been
gouging the world. People have become resigned to the situation. But
if we can supply uranium ore cheaper there's going to be a clamor for
private enterprise again. Under the present system private enterprise
has been withering on the vine. This is our big chance and the public
is pulling for us."

Bill's hold on his temper slipped another notch. "Yeah, I saw that
interview with the television news you had. Saw it last night." He
folded his arms across his chest. "If that's your conception of
winning support for our venture then you better take up circus
advertising."

For a moment Tom looked like a man who's taken a bucket of ice water
in the face. Then his feet hit the floor. "Say, now, wait a minute,
Bill!" he said, half in anger. "Who d'you think's been shouldering the
big share of Project Venture--while you've hung on to your job and a
pretty salary?"

"Didn't we agree you'd spend full time on the Project while I acted
as consultant between trips?" Bill shot back.

"Yeah, I quit a fair job as first officer on a freighter to handle
it."

"And you are guaranteed fair wages and a fat slice of any profits we
make," Bill snapped. "The thing I didn't like in that interview of
yours was that starry-eyed eyewash about our ancestor being a man of
vision, a philosopher and a dreamer. That's a helluva tag to put on
us--'The Dream Boys'! Good God!"

Tom stood up, facing his brother in icy silence. Finally he said, "Is
that all you've got to offer--a lotta carping criticism?"

The planes of Bill's cheeks flattened under the downward pull at his
mouth corners. The black ugly tide was running in him now and he could
not stop its sweep. His fear of space, the frantic will to escape from
it again, all the irritation and anger were deep currents and he was a
mere piece of flotsam tossing on the advancing wave of the black tide.

He said, "No, damn you. I've got something else in my craw too. It's
Christy. I've seen the way you look at her, and I know that whenever
my back is turned you're doing your damnedest to break us up!"

Tom's face turned gray and suddenly his eyes were wide open. Knots
stood out on the points of his jaws.

In a strange half choked voice he said, "That's a blasted lie--and you
know it. It's an excuse to cover up for your own peculiar behavior
lately. I think--"

Christy broke in with. "Bill--Tom, for heaven's sake stop it!" Her
beseeching eyes were glancing sharply from one to the other in growing
panic.

Bill stood lightly on his feet, his fingers curling and uncurling into
balled fists.

Tom went on, a bleak look in his eyes. "I think you've been in a soft
berth too long. The monopoly you work for has softened you, taken out
the guts a man needs to stand on his own feet--"

Bill suddenly stiffened. His right shot out in a hard, sharp blow that
crashed against Tom's chin. Tom grunted, a surprised look in his eyes,
and sagged to the floor.

For a moment Bill stood over him, nostrils flaring, his whole body
tense and waiting. But Tom was too groggy to get up.

"Oh, Bill, how could you!" Christy cried out, dropping to her knees
beside Tom.

Bill strode with measured step to the door. There he turned, and
looking back with a sneer, said, "Sweet dreams, Dream Boy!"

       *       *       *       *       *

In a luxurious office of Asteroid Mining Corporation on the
twenty-third floor of a Manhattan skyscraper a furious official of the
corporation faced an uncomfortable underling.

"I've heard of some pretty crude tricks in my time, Heilman, but
breaking into the Staker Company's office like a common house thief
takes the tin medal for low grade brains!" the official ranted,
pounding his desk. "I suppose you thought that was an excellent way to
advance yourself in the corporation, eh? Finesse, Heilman, finesse.
That's what it takes in matters like this. Asteroid Mining, before it
got the monopoly, stopped competition, but not by common
housebreaking--"

"But--but I thought," Heilman explained lamely, "that we could get a
copy of their trajectory and then deal with them after they got out to
the quadrant. You know, fire a 'meteor' at them, blanket them with
radio jamming, ruin their radar sighting--"

The official snorted and leaned disgustedly back in his leather chair.
"No, no you big dumb ox! You're retired from the team, benched. Now
you can sit on the sidelines and watch how the first string fix Staker
and Company."

       *       *       *       *       *

When Bill asked for his key, the clerk handed him the key and a
faintly lavender tinted envelope.

Mystified by the feminine handwriting, Bill sat in a lobby chair, and
tore open the jasmine scented envelope.

The note was brief. It said, "Dear Captain Staker: Please call on me
at your earliest convenience, Apt. 5B. It is a matter of utmost
importance to both of us. Margo."

Ever since leaving Tom's office, Bill's mind had been spinning about a
center of hatred and ugly rumination. But now the stimulus of the
jasmine fragrance struck a spark of adventure on the edge of his
churning mind. The tangential path led off into inviting mysterious
shadows and he was going to follow.

The elevator stopped at the apartment floor of the hotel's north
Tower. In the softly lighted corridor his feet fell soundlessly on the
deep pile rug. He turned a corner, then walked up a short flight of
steps to the door of Apt. 5B.

In response to his knock the door was opened by a vision in white
satin. She was startlingly beautiful. Dark heavy lashes, creamy skin,
white even teeth in a flashing smile, a lithe body poised with the
ease of a jungle cat. She was fulsome and high breasted, and as she
followed Bill's quick appraising glance, she seemed to smile knowingly
that all he saw was displayed to best advantage.

Hat in hand Bill said, "I'm--I'm Captain Staker."

With a throaty laugh that could have been carefully timed, she said,
"And I'm Margo. Come right in Captain."

Bill walked onto a white rug, and unobtrusively took in the rich
furniture Twenty First Century Modern, the warm brown of the logarithm
ruled walls, paintings in the style of Van Gogh, sharply angled table
lamps, the gold drapes at the windows.

"It was kind of you to come so promptly," Margo continued, settling
into a chair.

Bill brought his glance back to her. "Well, frankly, I was curious to
know what a perfect stranger could have in common with me."

She laughed indulgently. "Nasty of me, wasn't it?--taking advantage of
a human weakness." She gestured at Scotch and bourbon on the coffee
table. "I'll let you do us the honors, Captain. Bourbon for me."

Presently, glass in hand and a spreading warmth in him, Bill fixed
the girl with a quizzical look. "Tell me, Margo, just what is this
matter of utmost importance to both of us?"

She put her glass on the table, then sat back and Bill felt the full
impact of her dark lustrous eyes. "It's a business matter, Captain.
You've been recommended as a man of high purpose and dependability. As
the heir to my father's controlling interest in Intercontinental Lines
I am badly in need of a man with your experience to handle traffic
details."

Bill lifted a brow. "Intercontinental Lines? Never heard of it.
Exclusively airline traffic on Earth?"

"It's a new company formed under monopoly regulations. Of course, I
realize you're a spaceman, but staying on Earth would have its
compensations. You can name your own salary."

Bill leaned forward and mixed another drink. This was something
unexpected and pretty tempting too. No more fighting his fear of
space. He downed the drink in a few gulps, then stood up.

"Well, I--I'd like to think things over," he said with hesitation,
walking slowly to the window.

Margo followed, saying, "I don't mean to rush you, Bill--yet the
situation needs your experienced hand."

"I know, but my brother and I are all set to make a scouting trip to
Beta Quadrant."

Margo leaned against the window drapes, smiling with frank admiration.
"I know you are. How in the world you can take off from Earth and hit
a target far out in space is beyond me. Is it something like firing
artillery?"

The warm glow already suffusing Bill's senses took on added lustre
when he looked into her questioning eyes. Expansively, he began
drawing diagrams, and explaining the elements of space navigation.

"Now here's the trajectory my brother and I are planning to use," he
went on, drawing a complex curve with loading figures and fuel
consumption and point of contact with the Beta Quadrant.

When he paused once, Margo touched the gold sunburst emblem on his
arm. "That's fascinating, Bill, but making a trip like yours is all a
gamble. I'm not offering you a gamble. I'm offering you a sure thing."

"Yes, I realize that." Bill got to his feet. "But just the same I want
to think your proposition over, Margo."

She leaned toward him putting her hands on his lapels. "Bill, don't
risk your neck out there in space. I need you desperately in the
company."

Suddenly, Bill was electrically aware of cool, smooth arms sliding up
and around his neck and her soft red mouth within fragrance distance.

And he was exquisitely aware of the full soft length of her pressing
against him. The scent of jasmine reached him with bewitching stealth.
That was when he closed the gap to her mouth in a sudden rush.

Bill came out of a whirling state of pure feeling to hear the
visiphone buzzing insistently.

"The phone," he mumbled.

Margo opened her eyes dreamily, then comprehended. She walked over to
the phone, picked up the receiver.

After a moment she turned around looking at him questioningly. "It's
for you, Bill."

He took the phone and said, "Captain Staker speaking."

The desk clerk said, "A gentleman to see you, sir. Shall I send him to
Apt. 5B?"

"No," Bill answered. "I'll be down to my room in a few moments and see
him there."

He turned to Margo. "I guess business comes before idyll, Margo. I've
got to go."

Her lustrous dark eyes searched his face intently. "How long must I
wait for an answer, Bill?"

"Can you wait until Thursday--three days?" Time enough to thresh
things out with Tom.

"I guess I can," Margo said, touching him with an inviting glance,
"but do I have to wait that long before I see you again?"

Bill grinned and shook his head in wonder. "My lord, what persistence!
I got an idea any visiting would not be entirely social. Somewhere
along the line business would rear its shaggy head. Okay, how about
dinner at the Wedgewood Room tomorrow night?"

"Wonderful!"

Later at his own floor to his surprise he found Tom pacing the
corridor. In a strained voice he said, "The clerk said a gentleman--"

Tom came back in a conciliatory tone, "And I don't fit the
description, eh? Well, anyway, Bill, we got things to talk over. How
about it?"

Bill shrugged noncommittally, unlocked his door and the two entered.
Perched on the arm of a chair, Bill lighted a cigarette and pulled
deeply of it.

"Well, what is it?" He glanced coolly at his brother sitting with his
left leg dangling over the arm of his chair.

Tom cleared his throat and said, "I--er, came to see how we're
stacking up, Bill. After all we got a big show on our hands and the
whole world is waiting for the curtain to go up. But we can't be
squabbling between ourselves when we go on stage. Let's settle matters
now and get on with our job--after all we both got a lot at stake in
the company."

Bill studied the end of his cigarette a long moment. "I guess you
might as well count me out, Tom. I'm quitting the show."

Furrows appeared above Tom's brows. "Quitting! And after all you've
put into the venture? Bill, have you gone nuts?" He stopped a moment.
Then he said, "Oh, I guess I see the light. Christy, eh? Well, Bill,
honest--and I really mean this--you can have all the profits of the
trip if I'm guilty of trying to take Christy away from you. You've got
the wrong slant on things."

Bill shrugged, saying, "It's not that--and I still am not
convinced--it's just that I'm considering another proposition."

Tom got to his feet in agitation, looking down at Bill incredulously.
"My God, Bill, you sure have changed! What about all those bull
sessions we had reading and rereading the George Staker philosophy of
free enterprise? The world needs an object lesson to show how far it
has strayed from those first wonderful days of the Atomic Age. We are
heirs, Bill by special franchise, Old George saw the shape of things
to come pretty clearly, and it's up to us to carry out his vision of
things as they should be."

Bill ground out his cigarette in a tray. His underlip crowded out
stubbornly. "I'm not going."

For a moment Tom stared hard at Bill, and a heavy singing silence lay
between them. Then Tom strode to the door and opened it. "All right,
Bill--you and I are through!"

The door slammed. For awhile Bill sat looking at it, wondering why the
slammed door reminded him of looking at his reflection in the bathroom
mirror and telling himself "I'm scared--scared as hell. And if I don't
get hold of myself, I'm through--washed up!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The next day when he was busily dressing, the ultrafax popped out the
breakfast edition.

"_Space Bird_ takes off for Beta Quadrant. Tom Staker gambles all."

Bill stared at the pictures of the rocket climbing savagely at the
head of a column of fire. The crazy, stubborn fool. Going it alone,
risking his neck and everybody else's aboard. Well, let him go out
there and break his blasted neck on the Asteroid Belt.

For the next three days Bill saw much of Margo. She was the most
exciting thing he had ever discovered, and he indulged her laughingly
when she took to speaking of his position in Intercontinental Lines as
an accomplished fact.

On the third day he took Margo to lunch, a Margo with shining eyes,
for this was Bill's day of decision. She had done her work well.

He ordered for them, and added, "Also a bottle of champagne."

The waiter brought the champagne first. There was no doubt on Margo's
features what this was about, even though it had always been "if",
"maybe" "possibly" in Bill's discussions with her about the new job.

In the midst of picking up his glass and proposing a toast, "Here's to
my new--" Bill stopped. The ultrafax had popped out a sheet. Carefully
putting the glass down, he said, "That's a special bulletin."

Picking it up he read aloud, "Staker Rocket in serious trouble. Home
field reports damage by small meteor. Crew on emergency air bottles.
Mysterious emanations blind radar scope and disrupt communication with
Earth."

Tom--and the others, out there fighting for their lives against
suffocation and intense cold. Their quarrel seemed like the antics of
teenagers now. He had to get out to the field, see if he could help.

"What are you going to do?" Margo was watching him intently, the
knuckles of her small hands white.

"I'm going to the field."

"But--but what about that toast you were making to your new--job,
that's what you were going to say, wasn't it?" Her eyes were intense
spots of jet.

"I guess that'll have to wait, Margo," he told her. "I can't stand by
when Tom needs help."

Margo clutched his hands convulsively. "Bill, don't take a rocket up
or you'll die in the same trap he's dying in!" The words rushed out as
if through a trapdoor she could not control.

Bill glanced at her with sharp, new interest. "How do you know it's a
trap, and how do you know he's going to die?"

Tears began to well up in her large eyes. "All I can tell you is don't
go out there, Bill. I don't want to lose you--now."

Dawning realization filled Bill with horror. "Margo--Margo, for God's
sake, what kind of a game have you been playing with me!"

Margo's shoulders sagged, and she began to sob out her story. "Bill,
please, please believe me. I love you. That was not my part of the
agreement with Asteroid Mining--to fall in love with you. Yes. I was
hired to separate you and your brother, break up your company."

Before Bill could snarl an answer to that, a hotel service clerk came
with a portable phone.

"Call for you, sir."

With his eyes fixed steadily on Margo, he spoke into the transmitter,
"Captain Staker."

Christy's strained and tearful voice came over the wire. "Bill, oh,
Bill, we're getting terrible news here at the field. Tom's ship is
losing oxygen!"

"Yes, I know," he answered. "I just got the Ultra on it. I'll be right
out, Christy."

As he replaced the phone he looked at Margo with a grim, loathing
expression. "A female trick as old as the universe and I had to fall
for it. You and your innocent questions about our Quadrant trajectory!
What a sucker I was!" He drew back his hand to slap her but decided
against it. She was crying when he left.

On the way to the field the familiar but forgotten black tide of fear
rose up like a spectre once more to scatter his gathering ideas for
helping Tom. Resigning himself to its power and pulling over to the
roadside, he sat still, gripping the wheel. Yes, he told himself
tensely, here I sit while Tom and the others drift in space needing
help. The realization of their need slowly gave him a greater
objective clarity than he had ever had before. He began to see himself
now for what he was--a cringing weakling stripped naked of all
manliness at the first show of evil. Though he perhaps had been worse
than the average, this was the trouble with his whole security minded
generation. They never dreamed great dreams like George Staker and his
era which wrested atomic power from the treasure house of nature. No,
this generation carefully followed safe, charted paths in the world of
ideas. It had given up its freedom to a world of government controlled
monopolies. And Tom, taking up the torch left by their creatively
imaginative ancestor, was trying to recapture a small facet of that
golden age.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the dawning in him of Mid-Twentieth Century mind, Bill felt a
thrilling sense of freedom as the black tide receded over the horizon
of his inner world. He took a new firm grip on the wheel, and took off
again at high speed.

Christy was at the field office waiting outside. As he stepped out of
the car, she threw her arms around him.

"Oh, Bill, what can you do for Tom now?"

He said gently, "I'll bring him back for you."

She drew back her head to look at him incredulously, "You still
think--! Oh, Bill, you foolish guy, you're the one I love, the one
I've always loved."

For a moment he searched her eyes and saw only a revelation of honest
feeling. A surging gladness flooded through him, releasing an
unconscious hard ball of tension inside.

"Christy, what a knothead I've been!" He gathered her up to kiss her
fervently. "So long, Christy. Old Staker was a piker at dreaming
compared to what I'm dreaming for you and me!"

The field men had the rocket fueled up and provisioned to go. "This'll
be no picnic, but there's a prize out there if we want it bad enough.
You'll all have a share in it, instead of handing it all over to the
government. Are you with Tom and me?"

"Sure, Bill. Let's go!"

"Yeah, let's open 'er wide up!"

They all clambered up the ship's access ladder in high spirits. In a
moment a warning red signal rocket shot into the sky and burst,
warning all local aircraft. Another five minutes and the rocket leapt
off the Earth with a long, shattering roar.

Bill kept the fissioning metals pouring through the atomic explosive
after-chambers until the men screamed at the acceleration. Finally he
eased it off to free flight and the _Space Dragon_ followed the
trajectory of the _Space Bird_.

All the way he hovered over the radar scope. Then after long hours of
fatiguing watching he crawled into his bunk.

Later he woke up to Radarman Jones' voice in his ear.

"Captain--wake up. We've picked up a ship on the scope!"

Bill piled out and forced his floating feet to magnetic contact with
the steel deck. He followed Jones down the short corridor to the
communications cabin.

At the radar scope Bill studied the ship, then gave orders
decelerating the _Space Dragon_.

"There's another ship!" Jones exclaimed, pointing at the edge of the
scope.

Bill peered at the new ship, studying its characteristics. Then he
nodded his head. "It's the _Space Bird_ all right. But that first
one--I got an idea it must be an Asteroid Mining ship. Margo must have
transmitted the _Space Bird_ trajectory to Asteroid Mining. I don't
see how anybody would know where to find us in such immense distances
as Beta Quadrant."

Stepping over to the communications panel he called the _Space Bird_.
No answer, and though he kept calling he could not raise the ship.

Then he called Staker Field on Earth.

"Caxton?"

The field came back. "Staker Field. Go ahead."

"Caxton, we've found the _Space Bird_ but can't speak to them, so I'm
cutting you in on communications with an Asteroid Mining ship that's
hanging around. Tape pictures and sound--the whole works."

"Okay."

Flipping another switch, Bill called the strange ship on the
all-interplanetary frequency.

Suddenly after long minutes of silence the dark screen lighted up with
the impassive features of a round faced, cold eyed man.

"Yeah? This is the _Pluton_. What d'you want--and who are you?"

"This is the _Space Dragon_--sister ship to the _Space Bird_ there in
your vicinity. What's the matter with our ship?"

The man's eyes darkened and his jaws tightened. "There's plenty wrong
with it, _Space Dragon_. And the same thing's going to be wrong with
your ship, too. A 'meteor' is going to hit your ship the same as hit
the _Space Bird_. Asteroid Mining doesn't like competitors horning in
their business!"

Bill shot back grimly, "I'm glad to hear your views on competition,
Mister. The whole world is interested in our Project Venture, and when
they hear what you said there's going to be hell to pay. Because, you
see, everything you say and how you look saying it is being recorded
back at Staker Field on Earth!"

The other man's impassive face suddenly turned into a ludicrous mask
of a man burning his fingers on hot chestnuts. The two way hook-up
abruptly ended. On the scope Bill and Jones watched the image of the
_Pluton_ begin to move across the scope and finally out of range in
the opposite direction toward Asteroid Mining's Omega Quadrant.

Hours later the _Space Dragon_ made physical contact with Tom's ship.
Bill was the first one through the communicating airlock.

Tom, his face drawn and haggard, met him as he emerged in the ship.
The rest of the crew were lying still to conserve air.

"Hi, Bill. Boy, are we glad to see you. That 'meteor' they threw at us
confined us on air bottles in the forward compartments."

Bill shook his hand warmly. "We got enough air for all of us. After we
patch things up here, let's start carving us a chunk of private
enterprise."

Tom's tired eyes lighted up. "Hm, say, you're so right! Our geigers
have found enough floating ore in Beta Quadrant already to make a big
nick in Asteroid's business."

Bill gave him a mock salute, "Okay, skipper. You've earned the title
of Head Dreamer, and I'll help make your dreams come true!"

THE END

       *       *       *       *       *






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Black Tide, by Arthur G. Stangland

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BLACK TIDE ***

***** This file should be named 32412.txt or 32412.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/4/1/32412/

Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
