The Project Gutenberg EBook of At the Post, by Horace Leonard Gold

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: At the Post

Author: Horace Leonard Gold

Illustrator: VIDMER

Release Date: May 18, 2010 [EBook #32413]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AT THE POST ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









AT THE POST

By H. L. GOLD

Illustrated by VIDMER

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from Galaxy Science Fiction
October 1953. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the
U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: How does a person come to be scratched from the human race?
Psychiatry did not have the answer--perhaps Clocker's turf science did!]


When Clocker Locke came into the Blue Ribbon, on 49th Street west of
Broadway, he saw that nobody had told Doc Hawkins about his misfortune.
Doc, a pub-crawling, non-practicing general practitioner who wrote a
daily medical column for a local tabloid, was celebrating his release
from the alcoholic ward, but his guests at the rear table of the
restaurant weren't in any mood for celebration.

"What's the matter with you--have you suddenly become immune to liquor?"
Clocker heard Doc ask irritably, while Clocker was passing the gem
merchants, who, because they needed natural daylight to do business,
were traditionally accorded the tables nearest the windows. "I said the
drinks were on me, didn't I?" Doc insisted. "Now let us have some bright
laughter and sparkling wit, or must we wait until Clocker shows up
before there is levity in the house?"

Seeing the others glance toward the door, Doc turned and looked at
Clocker. His mouth fell open silently, for the first time in Clocker's
memory.

"Good Lord!" he said after a moment. "Clocker's become a _character_!"

Clocker felt embarrassed. He still wasn't used to wearing a business
suit of subdued gray, and black oxfords, instead of his usual brilliant
sports jacket, slacks and two-tone suede shoes; a tie with timid little
figures, whereas he had formerly been an authority on hand-painted
cravats; and a plain wristwatch in place of his spectacular chronograph.

By all Broadway standards, he knew, Doc was correct--he'd become strange
and eccentric, a character.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It was Zelda's idea," Clocker explained somberly, sitting down and
shaking his head at the waiter who ambled over. "She wanted to make a
gentleman out of me."

"_Wanted to?_" Doc repeated, bewildered. "You two kids got married just
before they took my snakes away. Don't tell me you phhtt already!"

Clocker looked appealingly at the others. They became busy with drinks
and paper napkins.

Naturally, Doc Hawkins knew the background: That Clocker was a race
handicapper--publisher, if you could call it that, of a tiny tip
sheet--for Doc, in need of drinking money, had often consulted him
professionally. Also that Clocker had married Zelda, the noted 52nd
Street stripteuse, who had social aspirations. What remained to be told
had occurred during Doc's inevitably temporary cure.

"Isn't anybody going to tell me?" Doc demanded.

"It was right after you tried to take the warts off a fire hydrant and
they came and got you," said Clocker, "that Zelda started hearing
voices. It got real bad."

"How bad?"

"She's at Glendale Center in an upholstered room. I just came back from
visiting her."

Doc gulped his entire drink, a positive sign that he was upset, or
happy, or not feeling anything in particular. Now, however, he was
noticeably upset.

"Did the psychiatrists give you a diagnosis?" he asked.

"I got it memorized. Catatonia. Dementia praecox, what they used to
call, one of the brain vets told me, and he said it's hopeless."

"Rough," said Doc. "Very rough. The outlook is never good in such
cases."

"Maybe they can't help her," Clocker said harshly, "but I will."

"People are not horses," Doc reminded him.

"I've noticed that," said Handy Sam, the armless wonder at the flea
circus, drinking beer because he had an ingrown toenail and couldn't
hold a shot glass. Now that Clocker had told the grim story, he felt
free to talk, which he did enthusiastically. "Clocker's got a giant
brain, Doc. Who was it said Warlock'd turn into a dog in his third year?
Clocker, the only dopester in the racket. And that's just one--"

"Zelda was my best flesh act," interrupted Arnold Wilson Wyle, a
ten-percenter whom video had saved from alimony jail. "A solid boffola
in the bop basements. Nobody regrets her sad condition more than me,
Clocker, but it's a sure flop, what you got in mind. Think of your
public. For instance, what's good at Hialeah? My bar bill is about to be
foreclosed and I can use a long shot."

Clocker bounced his fist on the moist table. "Those couch artists don't
know what's wrong with Zelda. I do."

"You do?" Doc asked, startled.

"Well, almost. I'm so close, I can hear the finish-line camera
clicking."

Buttonhole grasped Doc's lapel and hung on with characteristic avidity;
he was perhaps Clocker's most pious subscriber. "Doping races is a
science. Clocker maybe never doped the human race, but I got nine to
five he can do it. Go on, tell him, Clocker."

       *       *       *       *       *

Doc Hawkins ran together the rings he had been making with the wet
bottom of his tumbler. "I shall be most interested," he said with
tabloid irony, clearly feeling that immediate disillusionment was the
most humane thing for Clocker. "Perhaps we can collaborate on an article
for the psychiatric journals."

"All right, look." Clocker pulled out charts resembling those he worked
with when making turf selections. "Zelda's got catatonia, which is the
last heat in the schizophrenia parlay. She used to be a hoofer before
she started undressing for dough, and now she does time-steps all day."

Doc nodded into a fresh glass that the waiter had put before him.
"Stereotyped movements are typical of catatonia. They derive from
thwarted or repressed instinctual drive; in most instances, the residue
of childhood frustrations."

"She dance all day, huh, Clocker?" asked Oil Pocket, the Oklahoma
Cherokee who, with the income of several wells, was famed for angeling
bareback shows. He had a glass of tequila in one hand, the salted half
of a lemon in the other. "She dance good?"

"That's just it," Clocker said. "She does these time-steps, the first
thing you learn in hoofing, over and over, ten-fifteen hours a day. And
she keeps talking like she's giving lessons to some jerk kid who can't
get it straight. And she was the kid with the hot routines, remember."

"The hottest," agreed Arnold Wilson Wyle. "Zelda doing time-steps is
like Heifetz fiddling at weddings."

"I still like to put her in show," Oil Pocket grunted. "She stacked like
brick tepee. Don't have to dance good."

"You'll have a long wait," observed Doc sympathetically, "in spite of
what our young friend here says. Continue, young friend."

Clocker spread his charts. He needed the whole table. The others removed
their drinks, Handy Sam putting his on the floor so he could reach it
more easily.

"This is what I got out of checking all the screwball factories I could
reach personal and by mail," Clocker said. "I went around and talked to
the doctors and watched the patients in the places near here, and wrote
to the places I couldn't get to. Then I broke everything down like it
was a stud and track record."

Buttonhole tugged Doc's lapel. "That ain't scientific, I suppose," he
challenged.

"Duplication of effort," Doc replied, patiently allowing Buttonhole to
retain his grip. "It was all done in an organized fashion over a period
of more than half a century. But let us hear the rest."

       *       *       *       *       *

"First," said Clocker, "there are more male bats than fillies."

"Females are inherently more stable, perhaps because they have a more
balanced chromosome arrangement."

"There are more nuts in the brain rackets than labor chumps."

"Intellectual activity increases the area of conflict."

"There are less in the sticks than in the cities, and practically none
among the savages. I mean real savages," Clocker told Handy Sam, "not
marks for con merchants."

"I was wondering," Handy Sam admitted.

"Complex civilization creates psychic insecurity," said Doc.

"When these catatonics pull out, they don't remember much or maybe
nothing," Clocker went on, referring to his charts.

Doc nodded his shaggy white head. "Protective amnesia."

"I seen hundreds of these mental gimps. They work harder and longer at
what they're doing, even just laying down and doing nothing, than they
ever did when they were regular citizens."

"Concentration of psychic energy, of course."

"And they don't get a damn cent for it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Doc hesitated, put down his half-filled tumbler. "I beg your pardon?"

"I say they're getting stiffed," Clocker stated. "Anybody who works that
hard ought to get paid. I don't mean it's got to be money, although
that's the only kind of pay Zelda'd work for. Right, Arnold?"

"Well, sure," said Arnold Wilson Wyle wonderingly. "I never thought of
it like that. Zelda doing time-steps for nothing ten-fifteen hours a
day--that ain't Zelda."

"If you ask me, she _likes_ her job," Clocker said. "Same with the other
catatonics I seen. But for no pay?"

Doc surprisingly pushed his drink away, something that only a serious
medical puzzle could ever accomplish. "I don't understand what you're
getting at."

"I don't know these other cata-characters, but I do know Zelda," said
Arnold Wilson Wyle. "She's got to get something out of all that work.
Clocker says it's the same with the others and I take his word. What are
they knocking theirself out for if it's for free?"

"They gain some obscure form of emotional release or repetitive
gratification," Doc explained.

"Zelda?" exploded Clocker. "You offer her a deal like that for a club
date and she'd get ruptured laughing."

"I tell her top billing," Oil Pocket agreed, "plenty ads, plenty
publicity, whole show built around her. Wampum, she says; save money on
ads and publicity, give it to her. Zelda don't count coups."

Doc Hawkins called over the waiter, ordered five fingers instead of his
customary three. "Let us not bicker," he told Clocker. "Continue."

       *       *       *       *       *

Clocker looked at his charts again. "There ain't a line that ain't
represented, even the heavy rackets and short grifts. It's a regular
human steeplechase. And these sour apples do mostly whatever they did
for a living--draw pictures, sell shoes, do lab experiments, sew
clothes, Zelda with her time-steps. By the hour! In the air!"

"In the air?" Handy Sam repeated. "Flying?"

"Imaginary functioning," Doc elaborated for him. "They have nothing in
their hands. Pure hallucination. Systematic delusion."

"Sign language?" Oil Pocket suggested.

"That," said Clocker, before Doc Hawkins could reject the notion, "is on
the schnoz, Injun. Buttonhole says I'm like doping races. He's right.
I'm working out what some numbers-runner tells me is probabilities. I
got it all here," he rapped the charts, "and it's the same thing all
these flop-ears got in common. Not their age, not their jobs, not
their--you should pardon the expression--sex. They're _teaching_."

Buttonhole looked baffled. He almost let go of Doc's lapel.

Handy Sam scratched the back of his neck thoughtfully with a big toe.
"Teaching, Clocker? Who? You said they're kept in solitary."

"They are. I don't know who. I'm working on that now."

Doc shoved the charts aside belligerently to make room for his beefy
elbows. He leaned forward and glowered at Clocker. "Your theory belongs
in the Sunday supplement of the alleged newspaper I write for. Not all
catatonics work, as you call it. What about those who stand rigid and
those who lie in bed all the time?"

"I guess you think that's easy," Clocker retorted. "You try it sometime.
I did. It's work, I tell you." He folded his charts and put them back
into the inside pocket of his conservative jacket. He looked sick with
longing and loneliness. "Damn, I miss that mouse. I got to save her,
Doc! Don't you get that?"

Doc Hawkins put a chunky hand gently on Clocker's arm. "Of course, boy.
But how can you succeed when trained men can't?"

"Well, take Zelda. She did time-steps when she was maybe five and going
to dancing school--"

"Time-steps have some symbolic significance to her," Doc said with more
than his usual tact. "My theory is that she was compelled to go against
her will, and this is a form of unconscious rebellion."

"They don't have no significance to her," Clocker argued doggedly. "She
can do time-steps blindfolded and on her knees with both ankles tied
behind her back." He pried Buttonhole's hand off Doc's lapel, and took
hold of both of them himself. "I tell you she's teaching, explaining,
breaking in some dummy who can't get the hang of it!"

"But who?" Doc objected. "Psychiatrists? Nurses? You? Admit it,
Clocker--she goes on doing time-steps whether she's alone or not. In
fact, she never knows if anybody is with her. Isn't that so?"

"Yeah," Clocker said grudgingly. "That's what has me boxed."

       *       *       *       *       *

Oil Pocket grunted tentatively, "White men not believe in spirits.
Injuns do. Maybe Zelda talk to spirits."

"I been thinking of that," confessed Clocker, looking at the red angel
unhappily. "Spirits is all I can figure. Ghosts. Spooks. But if Zelda
and these other catatonics are teaching ghosts, these ghosts are the
dumbest jerks anywhere. They make her and the rest go through time-steps
or sewing or selling shoes again and again. If they had half a brain,
they'd get it in no time."

"Maybe spirits not hear good," Oil Pocket offered, encouraged by
Clocker's willingness to consider the hypothesis.

"Could be," Clocker said with partial conviction. "If we can't see them,
it may be just as hard for them to see or hear us."

Oil Pocket anxiously hitched his chair closer. "Old squaw name Dry
Ground Never Rainy Season--what you call old maid--hear spirits all the
time. She keep telling us what they say. Nobody listen."

"How come?" asked Clocker interestedly.

"She deaf, blind. Not hear thunder. Walk into cactus, yell like hell.
She hardly see us, not hear us at all, how come she see and hear
spirits? Just talk, talk, talk all the time."

Clocker frowned, thinking. "These catatonics don't see or hear us, but
they sure as Citation hear and see _something_."

Doc Hawkins stood up with dignity, hardly weaving, and handed a bill to
the waiter. "I was hoping to get a private racing tip from you, Clocker.
Freshly sprung from the alcoholic ward, I can use some money. But I see
that your objectivity is impaired by emotional considerations. I
wouldn't risk a dime on your advice even after a race is run."

"I didn't expect you to believe me," said Clocker despairingly. "None of
you pill-pushers ever do."

"I can't say about your psycho-doping," declared Arnold Wilson Wyle,
also rising. "But I got faith in your handicapping. I'd still like a
long shot at Hialeah if you happen to have one."

"I been too busy trying to help Zelda," Clocker said in apology.

They left, Doc Hawkins pausing at the bar to pick up a credit bottle to
see him through his overdue medical column.

Handy Sam slipped on his shoes to go. "Stick with it, Clocker. I said
you was a scientist--"

"_I_ said it," contradicted Buttonhole, lifting himself out of the chair
on Handy Sam's lapels. "If anybody can lick this caper, Clocker can."

Oil Pocket glumly watched them leave. "Doctors not think spirits real,"
he said. "I get sick, go to Reservation doctor. He give me medicine. I
get sicker. Medicine man see evil spirits make me sick. Shakes rattle.
Dances. Evil spirits go. I get better."

"I don't know what in hell to think," confided Clocker, miserable and
confused. "If it would help Zelda, I'd cut my throat from head to foot
so I could become a spirit and get the others to lay off her."

"Then you spirit, she alive. Making love not very practical."

"Then what do I do--hire a medium?"

"Get medicine man from Reservation. He drive out evil spirits."

Clocker pushed away from the table. "So help me, I'll do it if I can't
come up with something cheaper than paying freight from Oklahoma."

"Get Zelda out, I pay and put her in show."

"Then if I haul the guy here and it don't work, I'm in hock to you.
Thanks, Oil Pocket, but I'll try my way first."

       *       *       *       *       *

Back in his hotel room, waiting for the next day so he could visit
Zelda, Clocker was like an addict at the track with every cent on a
hunch. After weeks of neglecting his tip sheet to study catatonia, he
felt close to the payoff.

He spent most of the night smoking and walking around the room, trying
not to look at the jars and hairbrushes on the bureau. He missed the
bobbypins on the floor, the nylons drying across the shower rack, the
toothpaste tubes squeezed from the top. He'd put her perfumes in a
drawer, but the smell was so pervasively haunting that it was like
having her stand invisibly behind him.

[Illustration]

As soon as the sun came up, he hurried out and took a cab. He'd have to
wait until visiting hours, but he couldn't stand the slowness of the
train. Just being in the same building with her would--almost--be
enough.

When he finally was allowed into Zelda's room, he spent all his time
watching her silently, taking in every intently mumbled word and
movement. Her movements, in spite of their gratingly basic monotony,
were particularly something to watch, for Zelda had blue-black hair down
to her shapely shoulders, wide-apart blue eyes, sulky mouth, and an
astonishing body. She used all her physical equipment with unconscious
provocativeness, except her eyes, which were blankly distant.

Clocker stood it as long as he could and then burst out, "Damn it,
Zelda, how long can they take to learn a time-step?"

She didn't answer. She didn't see him, hear him, or feel him. Even when
he kissed her on the back of the neck, her special place, she did not
twist her shoulder up with the sudden thrill.

He took out the portable phonograph he'd had permission to bring in, and
hopefully played three of her old numbers--a ballet tap, a soft shoe,
and, most potent of all, her favorite slinky strip tune. Ordinarily, the
beat would have thrown her off, but not any more.

"Dead to this world," muttered Clocker dejectedly.

He shook Zelda. Even when she was off-balance, her feet tapped out the
elementary routine.

"Look, kid," he said, his voice tense and angry, "I don't know who these
squares are that you're working for, but tell them if they got you, they
got to take me, too."

Whatever he expected--ghostly figures to materialize or a chill wind
from nowhere--nothing happened. She went on tapping.

He sat down on her bed. _They_ picked people the way he picked horses,
except he picked to win and they picked to show. To show? Of course.
Zelda was showing them how to dance and also, probably, teaching them
about the entertainment business. The others had obviously been selected
for what they knew, which they went about doing as singlemindedly as she
did.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had a scheme that he hadn't told Doc because he knew it was crazy. At
any rate, he hoped it was. The weeks without her had been a hell of
loneliness--for him, not for her; she wasn't even aware of the awful
loss. He'd settle for that, but even better would be freeing her
somehow. The only way he could do it would be to find out who controlled
her and what they were after. Even with that information, he couldn't be
sure of succeeding, and there was a good chance that he might also be
caught, but that didn't matter.

The idea was to interest _them_ in what he knew so _they_ would want to
have him explain all he knew about racing. After that--well, he'd make
his plans when he knew the setup.

Clocker came close to the automatic time-step machine that had been his
wife. He began talking to her, very loudly, about the detailed knowledge
needed to select winners, based on stud records, past performances of
mounts and jockeys, condition of track and the influence of the
weather--always, however, leaving out the data that would make sense of
the whole complicated industry. It was like roping a patsy and holding
back the buzzer until the dough was down. He knew he risked being
cold-decked, but it was worth the gamble. His only worry was that
hoarseness would stop him before he hooked _their_ interest.

An orderly, passing in the corridor, heard his voice, opened the door
and asked with ponderous humor, "What you doing, Clocker--trying to take
out a membership card in this country club?"

Clocker leaped slightly. "Uh, working on a private theory," he said,
collected his things with a little more haste than he would have liked
to show, kissed Zelda without getting any response whatever, and left
for the day.

But he kept coming back every morning. He was about to give up when the
first feelings of unreality dazed and dazzled him. He carefully
suppressed his excitement and talked more loudly about racing. The world
seemed to be slipping away from him. He could have hung onto it if he
had wanted. He didn't. He let the voices come, vague and far away,
distorted, not quite meaningless, but not adding up to much, either.

And then, one day, he didn't notice the orderly come in to tell him that
visiting hours were over. Clocker was explaining the fundamentals of
horse racing ... meticulously, with immense patience, over and over and
over ... and didn't hear him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It had been so easy that Clocker was disappointed. The first voices had
argued gently and reasonably over him, each claiming priority for one
reason or another, until one either was assigned or pulled rank. That
was the voice that Clocker eventually kept hearing--a quiet, calm voice
that constantly faded and grew stronger, as if it came from a great
distance and had trouble with static. Clocker remembered the crystal set
his father had bought when radio was still a toy. It was like that.

Then the unreality vanished and was replaced by a dramatic new reality.
He was somewhere far away. He knew it wasn't on Earth, for this was like
nothing except, perhaps, a World's Fair. The buildings were low and
attractively designed, impressive in spite of their softly blended
spectrum of pastel colors. He was in a huge square that was
grass-covered and tree-shaded and decorated with classical sculpture.
Hundreds of people stood with him, and they all looked shaken and
scared. Clocker felt nothing but elation; he'd arrived. It made no
difference that he didn't know where he was or anything about the setup.
He was where Zelda was.

[Illustration]

"How did I get here?" asked a little man with bifocals and a vest that
had pins and threaded needles stuck in it. "I can't take time for
pleasure trips. Mrs. Jacobs is coming in for her fitting tomorrow and
she'll positively murder me if her dress ain't ready."

"She can't," Clocker said. "Not any more."

"You mean we're dead?" someone else asked, awed. It was a softly pudgy
woman with excessively blonde hair, a greasily red-lipped smile and a
flowered housecoat. She looked around with great approval. "Hey, this
ain't bad! Like I always said, either I'm no worse than anybody else or
they're no better'n me. How about that, dearie?"

"Don't ask me," Clocker evaded. "I think somebody's going to get an
earful, but you ain't dead. That much I can tell you."

The woman looked disappointed.

Some people in the crowd were complaining that they had families to take
care of while others were worried about leaving their businesses. They
all grew silent, however, when a man climbed up on a sort of marble
rostrum in front of them. He was very tall and dignified and wore formal
clothes and had a white beard parted in the center.

"Please feel at ease," he said in a big, deep, soothing voice, like a
radio announcer for a symphony broadcast. "You are not in any danger. No
harm will come to you."

"You _sure_ we ain't dead, sweetie?" the woman in the flowered housecoat
asked Clocker. "Isn't that--"

"No," said Clocker. "He'd have a halo, wouldn't he?"

"Yeah, I guess so," she agreed doubtfully.

The white-bearded man went on, "If you will listen carefully to this
orientation lecture, you will know where you are and why. May I
introduce Gerald W. Harding? Dr. Harding is in charge of this reception
center. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Harding."

       *       *       *       *       *

A number of people applauded out of habit ... probably lecture fans or
semi-pro TV studio audiences. The rest, including Clocker, waited as an
aging man in a white lab smock, heavy-rimmed eyeglasses and smooth pink
cheeks, looking like a benevolent doctor in a mouthwash ad, stood up and
faced the crowd. He put his hands behind his back, rocked on his toes a
few times, and smiled benevolently.

"Thank you, Mr. Calhoun," he said to the bearded man who was seating
himself on a marble bench. "Friends--and I trust you will soon regard us
_as_ your friends--I know you are puzzled at all this." He waved a white
hand at the buildings around them. "Let me explain. You have been
chosen--yes, carefully screened and selected--to help us in undoubtedly
the greatest cause of all history. I can see that you are asking
yourselves _why_ you were selected and what this cause is. I shall
describe it briefly. You'll learn more about it as we work together in
this vast and noble experiment."

The woman in the flowered housecoat looked enormously flattered. The
little tailor was nodding to show he understood the points covered thus
far. Glancing at the rest of the crowd, Crocker realized that he was the
only one who had this speech pegged. It was a pitch. These men were out
for something.

He wished Doc Hawkins and Oil Pocket were there. Doc doubtless would
have searched his unconscious for symbols of childhood traumas to
explain the whole thing; he would never have accepted it as _some_ kind
of reality. Oil Pocket, on the other hand, would somehow have tried to
equate the substantial Mr. Calhoun and Dr. Harding with tribal spirits.
Of the two, Clocker felt that Oil Pocket would have been closer.

Or maybe he was in his own corner of psychosis, while Oil Pocket would
have been in another, more suited to Indians. Spirits or figments?
Whatever they were, they looked as real as anybody he'd ever known, but
perhaps that was the naturalness of the supernatural or the logic of
insanity.

Clocker shivered, aware that he had to wait for the answer. The one
thing he did know, as an authority on cons, was that this had the smell
of one, supernatural or otherwise. He watched and listened like a
detective shadowing an escape artist.

"This may be something of a shock," Dr. Harding continued with a
humorous, sympathetic smile. "I hope it will not be for long. Let me
state it in its simplest terms. You know that there are billions of
stars in the Universe, and that stars have planets as naturally as cats
have kittens. A good many of these planets are inhabited. Some
life-forms are intelligent, very much so, while others are not. In
almost all instances, the dominant form of life is quite different
from--yours."

Unable to see the direction of the con, Clocker felt irritated.

"Why do I say _yours_, not _ours_?" asked Dr. Harding. "Because, dear
friends, Mr. Calhoun and I are not of your planet or solar system. No
commotion, please!" he urged, raising his hands as the crowd stirred
bewilderedly. "Our names are not Calhoun and Harding; we adopted those
because our own are so alien that you would be unable to pronounce them.
We are not formed as you see us, but this is how we _might_ look if we
were human beings, which, of course, we are not. Our true appearance
seems to be--ah--rather confusing to human eyes."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nuts, Clocker thought irreverently. Get to the point.

"I don't think this is the time for detailed explanations," Dr. Harding
hurried on before there were any questions. "We are friendly, even
altruistic inhabitants of a planet 10,000 light-years from Earth. Quite
a distance, you are thinking; how did we get here? The truth is that we
are not 'here' and neither are you. 'Here' is a projection of thought, a
hypothetical point in space, a place that exists only by mental force.
Our physical appearances and yours are telepathic representations.
Actually, our bodies are on our own respective planets."

"Very confusing," complained a man who looked like a banker. "Do you
have any idea of what he's trying to tell us?"

"Not yet," Clocker replied with patient cynicism. "He'll give us the
convincer after the buildup."

The man who looked like a banker stared sharply at Clocker and moved
away. Clocker shrugged. He was more concerned with why he didn't feel
tired or bored just standing there and listening. There was not even an
overpowering sense of urgency and annoyance, although he wanted to find
Zelda and this lecture was keeping him from looking for her. It was as
if his emotions were somehow being reduced in intensity. They existed,
but lacked the strength they should have had.

So he stood almost patiently and listened to Dr. Harding say, "Our
civilization is considerably older than yours. For many of your
centuries, we have explored the Universe, both physically and
telepathically. During this exploration, we discovered your planet. We
tried to establish communication, but there were grave difficulties. It
was the time of your Dark Ages, and I'm sorry to report that those
people we made contact with were generally burned at the stake." He
shook his head regretfully. "Although your civilization has made many
advances in some ways, communication is still hampered--as much by false
knowledge as by real ignorance. You'll see in a moment why it is very
unfortunate."

"Here it comes," Clocker said to those around him. "He's getting ready
finally to slip us the sting."

The woman in the housecoat looked indignant. "The nerve of a crumb like
you making a crack about such a fine, decent gentleman!"

"A blind man could see he's sincere," argued the tailor. "Just think of
it--_me_, in a big experiment! Will Molly be surprised when she finds
out!"

"She won't find out and I'll bet she's surprised right now," Clocker
assured him.

"The human body is an unbelievably complicated organism," Dr. Harding
was saying. The statement halted the private discussion and seemed to
please his listeners for some reason. "We learned that when we tried to
assume control of individuals for the purpose of communication. Billions
of neural relays, thousands of unvolitional functions--it is no
exaggeration to compare our efforts with those of a monkey in a power
plant. At our direction, for example, several writers produced books
that were fearfully garbled. Our attempts with artists were no more
successful. The static of interstellar space was partly responsible, but
mostly it was the fact that we simply couldn't work our way through the
maze that is the human mind and body."

       *       *       *       *       *

The crowd was sympathetic. Clocker was neither weary nor bored, merely
longing for Zelda and, as a student of grifts, dimly irritated. Why hold
back when the chumps were set up?

"I don't want to make a long story of our problems," smiled Dr. Harding.
"If we could visit your planet in person, there would be no difficulty.
But 10,000 light-years is an impossible barrier to all except thought
waves, which, of course, travel at infinite speed. And this, as I said
before, is very unfortunate, because the human race is doomed."

The tailor stiffened. "Doomed? Molly? My kids? All my customers?"

"_Your_ customers?" yelped the woman in the housecoat. "How about mine?
What's gonna happen, the world should be doomed?"

Clocker found admiration for Dr. Harding's approach. It was a line tried
habitually by politicians, but they didn't have the same kind of captive
audience, the control, the contrived background. A cosmic pitch like
this could bring a galactic payoff, whatever it might be. But it didn't
take his mind off Zelda.

"I see you are somewhat aghast," Dr. Harding observed. "But is my
statement _really_ so unexpected? You know the history of your own
race--a record of incessant war, each more devastating than the last.
Now, finally, Man has achieved the power of worldwide destruction. The
next war, or the one after that, will unquestionably be the end not only
of civilization, but of humanity--perhaps even your entire planet. Our
peaceful, altruistic civilization might help avert catastrophe, but that
would require our physical landing on Earth, which is not possible. Even
if it were, there is not enough time. Armageddon draws near.

"Then why have we brought you here?" asked Dr. Harding. "Because Man, in
spite of his suicidal blunders, is a magnificent race. He must not
vanish without leaving _a complete record_ of his achievements."

The crowd nodded soberly. Clocker wished he had a cigarette and his
wife. In her right mind, Zelda was unswervingly practical and she would
have had some noteworthy comments to make.

"This is the task we must work together on," said Dr. Harding
forcefully. "Each of you has a skill, a talent, a special knowledge we
need for the immense record we are compiling. Every area of human
society must be covered. We need you--urgently! Your data will become
part of an imperishable social document that shall exist untold eons
after mankind has perished."

       *       *       *       *       *

Visibly, the woman in the housecoat was stunned. "They want to put down
what _I_ can tell them?"

"And tailoring?" asked the little man with the pin-cushion vest. "How to
make buttonholes and press clothes?"

The man who looked like a banker had his chin up and a pleased
expression on his pudgy face.

"I always knew I'd be appreciated some day," he stated smugly. "I can
tell them things about finance that those idiots in the main office
can't even guess at."

Mr. Calhoun stood up beside Dr. Harding on the rostrum. He seemed
infinitely benign as he raised his hands and his deep voice.

"Friends, we need _your_ help, _your_ knowledge. I _know_ you don't want
the human race to vanish without a _trace_, as though it had never
existed. I'm _sure_ it thrills you to realize that some researcher,
_far_ in the _future_, will one day use the very knowledge that _you_
gave. Think what it means to leave _your_ personal imprint indelibly on
cosmic history!" He paused and leaned forward. "Will you help us?"

The faces glowed, the hands went up, the voices cried that they would.

Dazzled by the success of the sell, Clocker watched the people happily
and flatteredly follow their frock-coated guides toward the various
buildings, which appeared to have been laid out according to very broad
categories of human occupation.

He found himself impelled along with the chattering, excited woman in
the housecoat toward a cerise structure marked SPORTS AND RACKETS. It
seemed that she had been angry at not having been interviewed for a
recent epic survey, and this was her chance to decant the experiences of
twenty years.

Clocker stopped listening to her gabble and looked for the building that
Zelda would probably be in. He saw ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT, but when he
tried to go there, he felt some compulsion keep him heading toward his
own destination.

Looking back helplessly, he went inside.

       *       *       *       *       *

He found that he was in a cubicle with a fatherly kind of man who had
thin gray hair, kindly eyes and a firm jaw, and who introduced himself
as Eric Barnes. He took Clocker's name, age, specific trade, and gave
him a serial number which, he explained, would go on file at the central
archives on his home planet, cross-indexed in multiple ways for instant
reference.

"Now," said Barnes, "here is our problem, Mr. Locke. We are making two
kinds of perpetual records. One is written; more precisely,
microscribed. The other is a wonderfully exact duplicate of your
cerebral pattern--in more durable material than brain matter, of
course."

"Of course," Clocker said, nodding like an obedient patsy.

"The verbal record is difficult enough, since much of the data you give
us must be, by its nature, foreign to us. The duplication of your
cerebral pattern, however, is even more troublesome. Besides the
inevitable distortion caused by a distance of 10,000 light-years and the
fields of gravitation and radiation of all types intervening, the
substance we use in place of brain cells absorbs memory quite slowly."
Barnes smiled reassuringly. "But you'll be happy to know that the
impression, once made, can _never_ be lost or erased!"

"Delighted," Clocker said flatly. "Tickled to pieces."

"I knew you would be. Well, let us proceed. First, a basic description
of horse racing."

Clocker began to give it. Barnes held him down to a single sentence--"To
check reception and retention," he said.

The communication box on the desk lit up when Clocker repeated the
sentence a few times, and a voice from the box said, "Increase output.
Initial impression weak. Also wave distortion. Correct and continue."

Barnes carefully adjusted the dials and Clocker went on repeating the
sentence, slowing down to the speed Barnes requested. He did it
automatically after a while, which gave him a chance to think.

[Illustration]

He had no plan to get Zelda out of here; he was improvising and he
didn't like it. The setup still had him puzzled. He knew he wasn't
dreaming all this, for there were details his imagination could never
have supplied, and the notion of spirits with scientific devices would
baffle even Oil Pocket.

Everybody else appeared to accept these men as the aliens they claimed
to be, but Clocker, fearing a con he couldn't understand, refused to. He
had no other explanation, though, no evidence of any kind except deep
suspicion of any noble-sounding enterprise. In his harsh experience,
they always had a profit angle hidden somewhere.

Until he knew more, he had to go along with the routine, hoping he would
eventually find a way out for Zelda and himself. While he was repeating
his monotonous sentence, he wondered what his body was doing back on
Earth. Lying in a bed, probably, since he wasn't being asked to perform
any physical jobs like Zelda's endless time-step.

That reminded him of Doc Hawkins and the psychiatrists. There must be
some here; he wished vengefully that he could meet them and see what
they thought of their theories now.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then came the end of what was apparently the work day.

"We're making splendid progress," Barnes told him. "I know how tiresome
it is to keep saying the same thing over and over, but the distance is
_such_ a great obstacle. I think it's amazing that we can even _bridge_
it, don't you? Just imagine--the light that's reaching Earth at this
very minute left our star when mammoths were roaming your western states
and mankind lived in caves! And yet, with our thought-wave boosters, we
are in instantaneous communication!"

The soap, Clocker thought, to make him feel he was doing something
important.

"Well, you are doing something important," Barnes said, as though
Clocker had spoken.

Clocker would have turned red if he had been able to. As it was, he felt
dismay and embarrassment.

"Do you realize the size and value of this project?" Barnes went on. "We
have a more detailed record of human society than Man himself ever had!
There will be not even the most insignificant corner of your
civilization left unrecorded! Your life, my life--the life of this Zelda
whom you came here to rescue--all are trivial, for we must die
eventually, but the project will last eternally!"

Clocker stood up, his eyes hard and worried. "You're telling me you know
what I'm here for?"

"To secure the return of your wife. I would naturally be aware that you
had submitted yourself to our control voluntarily. It was in your file,
which was sent to me by Admissions."

"Then why did you let me in?"

"Because, my dear friend--"

"Leave out the 'friend' pitch. I'm here on business."

Barnes shrugged. "As you wish. We let you in, as you express it, because
you have knowledge that we should include in our archives. We hoped you
would recognize the merit and scope of out undertaking. Most people do,
once they are told."

"Zelda, too?"

"Oh, yes," Barnes said emphatically. "I had that checked by Statistics.
She is extremely cooperative, quite convinced--"

"Don't hand me that!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Barnes rose. Straightening the papers on his desk, he said, "You want to
speak to her and see for yourself? Fair enough."

He led Clocker out of the building. They crossed the great square to a
vast, low structure that Barnes referred to as the Education and
Recreation Center.

"Unless there are special problems," Barnes said, "our human associates
work twelve or fourteen of your hours, and the rest of the time is their
own. Sleep isn't necessary to the psychic projection, of course, though
it is to the body on Earth. And what, Mr. Locke, would you imagine they
choose as their main amusements?"

"Pinball machines?" Clocker suggested ironically. "Crap games?"

"Lectures," said Barnes with pride. "They are eager to learn everything
possible about our project. We've actually had the director himself
address them! Oh, it was inspiring, Mr. Locke--color films in three
dimensions, showing the great extent of our archives, the many millions
of synthetic brains, each with indestructible memories of skills and
crafts and professions and experiences that soon will be no more--"

"Save it. Find Zelda for me and then blow. I want to talk to her alone."

Barnes checked with the equivalent of a box office at the Center, where,
he told Clocker, members of the audience and staff were required to
report before entering, in case of emergency.

"Like what?" Clocker asked.

"You have a suspicious mind," said Barnes patiently. "Faulty neuron
circuit in a synthetic duplicate brain, for example. Photon storms
interfering with reception. Things of that sort."

"So where's the emergency?"

"We have so little time. We ask the human associate in question to
record again whatever was not received. The percentage of refusal is
actually _zero_! Isn't that splendid?"

"Best third degree I ever heard of," Clocker admitted through clamped
teeth. "The cops on Earth would sell out every guy they get graft from
to buy a thing like this."

       *       *       *       *       *

They found Zelda in a small lecture hall, where a matronly woman from
the other planet was urging her listeners to conceal nothing, however
intimate, while recording--"Because," she said, "this must be a
psychological as well as a cultural and sociological history."

Seeing Zelda, Clocker rushed to her chair, hauled her upright, kissed
her, squeezed her.

"Baby!" he said, more choked up than he thought his control would allow.
"Let's get out of here!"

She looked at him without surprise. "Oh, hello, Clocker. Later. I want
to hear the rest of this lecture."

"Ain't you glad to see me?" he asked, hurt. "I spend months and shoot
every dime I got just to find you--"

"Sure I'm glad to see you, hon," she said, trying to look past him at
the speaker. "But this is so important--"

Barnes came up, bowed politely. "If you don't mind, Miss Zelda, I think
you ought to talk to your husband."

"But what about the lecture?" asked Zelda anxiously.

"I can get a transcription for you to study later."

"Well, all right," she agreed reluctantly.

Barnes left them on a strangely warm stone bench in the great square,
after asking them to report back to work at the usual time. Zelda,
instead of looking at Clocker, watched Barnes walk away. Her eyes were
bright; she almost radiated.

"Isn't he wonderful, Clocker?" she said. "Aren't they all wonderful?
Regular scientists, every one of them, devoting their whole life to this
terrific cause!"

"What's so wonderful about that?" he all but snarled.

She turned and gazed at him in mild astonishment. "They could let the
Earth go boom. It wouldn't mean a thing to them. Everybody wiped out
just like there never were any people. Not even as much record of us as
the dinosaurs! Wouldn't that make you feel simply awful?"

"I wouldn't feel a thing." He took her unresponsive hand. "All I'm
worried about is us, baby. Who cares about the rest of the world doing a
disappearing act?"

"I do. And so do they. They aren't selfish like some people I could
mention."

"Selfish? You're damned right I am!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He pulled her to him, kissed her neck in her favorite place. It got a
reaction--restrained annoyance.

"I'm selfish," he said, "because I got a wife I'm nuts about and I want
her back. They got you wrapped, baby. Can't you see that? You belong
with me in some fancy apartment, the minute I can afford it, like one I
saw over on Riverside Drive--seven big rooms, three baths, one of them
with a stall shower like you always wanted, the Hudson River and Jersey
for our front lawn--"

"That's all in the past, hon," she said with quiet dignity. "I have to
help out on this project. It's the least I can do for history."

"The hell with history! What did history ever do for us?" He put his
mouth near her ear, breathing gently in the way that once used to make
her squirm in his arms like a tickled doe. "Go turn in your time-card,
baby. Tell them you got a date with me back on Earth."

She pulled away and jumped up. "No! This is my job as much as theirs.
More, even. They don't keep anybody here against their will. I'm staying
because I want to, Clocker."

Furious, he snatched her off her feet. "I say you're coming back with
me! If you don't want to, I'll drag you, see?"

"How?" she asked calmly.

He put her down again slowly, frustratedly. "Ask them to let you go,
baby. Oil Pocket said he'd put you in a musical. You always did want to
hit the big time--"

"Not any more." She smoothed down her dress and patted up her hair.
"Well, I want to catch the rest of that lecture, hon. See you around if
you decide to stay."

He sat down morosely and watched her snake-hip toward the Center,
realizing that her seductive walk was no more than professional
conditioning. She had grown in some mysterious way, become more
serene--at peace.

He had wondered what catatonics got for their work. He knew now--the
slickest job of hypnotic flattery ever invented. That was _their_ pay.

But what did the pitchmen get in return?

       *       *       *       *       *

Clocker put in a call for Barnes at the box office of the Center. Barnes
left a lecture for researchers from his planet and joined Clocker with
no more than polite curiosity on his paternal face. Clocker told him
briefly and bitterly about his talk with Zelda, and asked bluntly what
was in it for the aliens.

"I think you can answer that," said Barnes. "You're a scientist of a
sort. You determine the probable performance of a group of horses by
their heredity, previous races and other factors. A very laborious
computation, calling for considerable aptitude and skill. With that same
expenditure of energy, couldn't you earn more in other fields?"

"I guess so," Clocker said. "But I like the track."

"Well, there you are. The only human form of gain we share is desire for
knowledge. You devote your skill to predicting a race that is about to
be run; we devote ours to recording a race that is about to destroy
itself."

Clocker grabbed the alien's coat, pushed his face grimly close. "There,
that's the hook! Take away the doom push and this racket folds."

Barnes looked bewildered. "I don't comprehend--"

"Listen, suppose everything's square. Let's say you guys really are
leveling, these marks aren't being roped, you're knocking yourself out
because your guess is that we're going to commit suicide."

"Oh." Barnes nodded somberly. "Is there any doubt of it? Do you honestly
believe the holocaust can be averted?"

"I think it can be stopped, yeah. But you birds act like you don't want
it to be. You're just laying back, letting us bunch up, collecting the
insurance before the spill happens."

"What else can we do? We're scientists, not politicians. Besides, we've
tried repeatedly to spread the warning and never once succeeded in
transmitting it."

Clocker released his grip on the front of Barnes's jacket. "You take me
to the president or commissioner or whoever runs this club. Maybe we can
work something out."

"We have a board of directors," Barnes said doubtfully. "But I can't
see--"

"Don't rupture yourself trying. Just take me there and let me do the
talking."

Barnes moved his shoulders resignedly. He led Clocker to the
Administration Building and inside to a large room with paneled walls, a
long, solid table and heavy, carved chairs. The men who sat around the
table appeared as solid and respectable as the furniture. Clocker's
guess was that they had been chosen deliberately, along with the
decorations, to inspire confidence in the customer. He had been in
rigged horse parlors and bond stores and he knew the approach.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Calhoun, the character with the white beard, was chairman of the
board. He looked unhappily at Clocker.

"I was afraid there would be trouble," he said. "I voted against
accepting you, you know. My colleagues, however, thought that you, as
our first voluntary associate, might indicate new methods, but I fear my
judgment has been vindicated."

"Still, if he knows how extinction can be prevented--" began Dr.
Harding, the one who had given the orientation lecture.

"He knows no such thing," a man with several chins said in an emphatic
basso voice. "Man is the most destructive dominant race we have ever
encountered. He despoiled his own planet, exterminated lower species
that were important to his own existence, oppressed, suppressed,
brutalized, corrupted--it's the saddest chronicle in the Universe."

"Therefore his achievements," said Dr. Harding, "deserve all the more
recognition!"

Clocker broke in: "If you'll lay off the gab, I'd like to get my bet
down."

"Sorry," said Mr. Calhoun. "Please proceed, Mr. Locke."

Clocker rested his knuckles on the table and leaned over them. "I have
to take your word you ain't human, but you don't have to take mine. I
never worried about anybody but Zelda and myself; that makes me human.
All I want is to get along and not hurt anybody if I can help it; that
makes me what some people call the common man. Some of my best friends
are common men. Come to think of it, they all are. They wouldn't want to
get extinct. If we do, it won't be our fault."

Several of the men nodded sympathetic agreement.

"I don't read much except the sport sheets, but I got an idea what's
coming up," Clocker continued, "and it's a long shot that any country
can finish in the money. We'd like to stop war for good, all of us.
Little guys who do the fighting and the dying. Yeah, and lots of big
guys, too. But we can't do it alone."

"That's precisely our point," said Calhoun.

"I mean us back on Earth. People are afraid, but they just don't know
for sure that we can knock ourself off. Between these catatonics and me,
we could tell them what it's all about. I notice you got people from all
over the world here, all getting along fine because they have a job to
do and no time to hate each other. Well, it could be like that on Earth.
You let us go back and you'll see a selling job on making it like up
here like you never saw before."

Mr. Calhoun and Dr. Harding looked at each other and around the table.
Nobody seemed willing to answer.

Mr. Calhoun finally sighed and got out of his big chair. "Mr. Locke,
besides striving for international understanding, we have experimented
in the manner you suggest. We released many of our human associates to
tell what our science predicts on the basis of probability. A human
psychological mechanism defeated us."

"Yeah?" Clocker asked warily. "What was that?"

"Protective amnesia. They completely and absolutely forgot everything
they had learned here."

       *       *       *       *       *

Clocker slumped a bit. "I know. I talked to some of these 'cured'
catatonics--people you probably sprung because you got all you wanted
from them. They didn't remember anything." He braced again. "Look, there
has to be a way out. Maybe if you snatch these politicians in all the
countries, yank them up here, they couldn't stumble us into a war."

"Examine your history," said Dr. Harding sadly, "and you will find that
we have done this experimentally. It doesn't work. There are always
others, often more unthinking, ignorant, stupid or vicious, ready to
take their places."

Clocker looked challengingly at every member of the board of directors
before demanding, "What are the odds on me remembering?"

"You are our first volunteer," said a little man at the side of the
table. "Any answer we give would be a guess."

"All right, guess."

"We have a theory that your psychic censor might not operate. Of course,
you realize that's only a theory--"

"That ain't all I don't realize. What's it mean?"

"Our control, regrettably, is a wrench to the mind. Lifting it results
in amnesia, which is a psychological defense against disturbing
memories."

"I walked into this, don't forget," Clocker reminded him. "I didn't know
what I was getting into, but I was ready to take anything."

"That," said the little man, "is the unknown factor. Yes, you did submit
voluntarily and you were ready to take anything--but were you
psychologically prepared for this? We don't know. We _think_ there may
be no characteristic wrench--"

"Meaning I won't have amnesia?"

"Meaning that you _may_ not. We cannot be certain until a test has been
made."

"Then," said Clocker, "I want a deal. It's Zelda I want; you know that,
at any rate. You say you're after a record of us in case we bump ourself
off, but you also say you'd like us not to. I'll buy that. I don't want
us to, either, and there's a chance that we can stop it together."

"An extremely remote one," Mr. Calhoun stated.

"Maybe, but a chance. Now if you let me out and I'm the first case that
don't get amnesia, I can tell the world about all this. I might be able
to steer other guys, scientists and decent politicians, into coming here
to get the dope straighter than I could. Maybe that'd give Earth a
chance to cop a pardon on getting extinct. Even if it don't work, it's
better than hanging around the radio waiting for the results."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Harding hissed on his glasses and wiped them thoughtfully, an
adopted mannerism, obviously, because he seemed to see as well without
them. "You have a point, Mr. Locke, but it would mean losing your
contribution to our archives."

"Well, which is more important?" Clocker argued. "Would you rather have
my record than have us save ourself?"

"Both," said Mr. Calhoun. "We see very little hope of your success,
while we regard your knowledge as having important sociological
significance. A very desirable contribution."

The others agreed.

"Look, I'll come back if I lame out," Clocker desperately offered. "You
can pick me up any time you want. But if I make headway, you got to let
Zelda go, too."

"A reasonable proposition," said Dr. Harding. "I call for a vote."

They took one. The best Clocker could get was a compromise.

"We will lift our control," Mr. Calhoun said, "for a suitable time. If
you can arouse a measurable opposition to racial suicide--_measurable_,
mind you; we're not requiring that you reverse the lemming march
alone--we agree to release your wife and revise our policy completely.
If, on the other hand, as seems more likely--"

"I come back here and go on giving you the inside on racing," Clocker
finished for him. "How much time do I get?"

Dr. Harding turned his hands palm up on the table. "We do not wish to be
arbitrary. We earnestly hope you gain your objective and we shall give
you every opportunity to do so. If you fail, you will know it. So shall
we."

"You're pretty sure I'll get scratched, aren't you?" Clocker asked
angrily. "It's like me telling a jockey he don't stand a chance--he's
whammied before he even gets to the paddock. Anybody'd think do-gooders
like you claim you are would wish me luck."

"But we do!" exclaimed Mr. Calhoun. He shook Clocker's hand warmly and
sincerely. "Haven't we consented to release you? Doesn't this prove our
honest concern? If releasing _all_ our human associates would save
humanity, we would do so instantly. But we have tried again and again.
And so, to use your own professional terminology, we are hedging our
bets by continuing to make our anthropological record until you
demonstrate another method ... if you do."

"Good enough," approved Clocker. "Thanks for the kind word."

The other board members followed and shook Clocker's hand and wished him
well.

Barnes, being last, did the same and added, "You may see your wife, if
you care to, before you leave."

"If I care to?" Clocker repeated. "What in hell do you think I came here
for in the first place?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Zelda was brought to him and they were left alone in a pleasant reading
room. Soft music came from the walls, which glowed with enough light to
read by. Zelda's lovely face was warm with emotion when she sat down
beside him and put her hands in his.

"They tell me you're leaving, hon," she said.

[Illustration]

"I made a deal, baby. If it works--well, it'll be like it was before,
only better."

"I hate to see you leave. Not just for me," she added as he lit up
hopefully. "I still love you, hon, but it's different now. I used to
want you near me every minute. Now it's loving you without starving for
you. You know what I mean?"

"That's just the control they got on you. It's like that with me, too,
only I know what it is and you don't."

"But the big thing is the project. Why, we're footnotes in history! Stay
here, hon. I'd feel so much better knowing you were here, making your
contribution like they say."

He kissed her lips. They were soft and warm and clinging, and so were
her arms around his neck. This was more like the Zelda he had been
missing.

"They gave you a hypo, sweetheart," he told her. "You're hooked; I'm
not. Maybe being a footnote is more important than doing something to
save our skin, but I don't think so. If I can do anything about it, I
want to do it."

"Like what?"

"I don't know," he admitted. "I'm hoping I get an idea when I'm
paroled."

She nuzzled under his chin. "Hon, I want you and me to be footnotes. I
want it awful bad."

"That's not what really counts, baby. Don't you see that? It's having
you and stopping us humans from being just a bunch of old footnotes.
Once we do that, we can always come back here and make the record, if it
means that much to you."

"Oh, it does!"

He stood and drew her up so he could hold her more tightly. "You do want
to go on being my wife, don't you, baby?"

"Of course! Only I was hoping it could be here."

"Well, it can't. But that's all I wanted to know. The rest is just
details."

He kissed her again, including the side of her neck, which produced a
subdued wriggle of pleasure, and then he went back to the Administration
Building for his release.

       *       *       *       *       *

Awakening was no more complicated than opening his eyes, except for a
bit of fogginess and fatigue that wore off quickly, and Clocker saw he
was in a white room with a doctor, a nurse and an orderly around his
bed.

"Reflexes normal," the doctor said. He told Clocker, "You see and hear
us. You know what I'm saying."

"Sure," Clocker replied. "Why shouldn't I?"

"That's right," the doctor evaded. "How do you feel?"

Clocker thought about it. He was a little thirsty and the idea of a
steak interested him, but otherwise he felt no pain or confusion. He
remembered that he had not been hungry or thirsty for a long time, and
that made him recall going over the border after Zelda.

There were no gaps in his recollection.

He didn't have protective amnesia.

"You know what it's like there?" he asked the doctor eagerly. "A big
place where everybody from all over the world tell these aliens about
their job or racket." He frowned. "I just remembered something funny.
Wonder why I didn't notice it at the time. Everybody talks the same
language. Maybe that's because there's only one language for thinking."
He shrugged off the problem. "The guys who run the shop take it all down
as a record for whoever wants to know about us a zillion years from now.
That's on account of us humans are about to close down the track and go
home."

The doctor bent close intently. "Is that what you believe _now_
or--while you were--disturbed?"

Clocker's impulse to blurt the whole story was stopped at the gate. The
doctor was staring too studiously at him. He didn't have his story set
yet; he needed time to think, and that meant getting out of this
hospital and talking it over with himself.

"You kidding?" he asked, using the same grin that he met complainers
with when his turf predictions went sour. "While my head was out of the
stirrups, of course."

The doctor, the nurse and the orderly relaxed.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I ought to write a book," Clocker went on, being doggedly humorous.
"What screwball ideas I got! How'd I act?"

"Not bad," said the orderly. "When I found you yakking in your wife's
room, I thought maybe it was catching and I'd better go find another
job. But Doc here told me I was too stable to go psychotic."

"I wasn't any trouble?"

"Nah. All you did was talk about how to handicap races. I got quite a
few pointers. Hell, you went over them often enough for anybody to get
them straight!"

"I'm glad somebody made a profit," said Clocker. He asked the doctor,
"When do I get out of here?"

"We'll have to give you a few tests first."

"Bring them on," Clocker said confidently.

They were clever tests, designed to trip him into revealing whether he
still believed in his delusions. But once he realized that, he
meticulously joked about them.

"Well?" he asked when the tests were finished.

"You're all right," said the doctor. "Just try not to worry about your
wife, avoid overworking, get plenty of rest--"

Before Clocker left, he went to see Zelda. She had evidently recorded
the time-step satisfactorily, because she was on a soft-shoe routine
that she must have known cold by the time she'd been ten.

He kissed her unresponsive mouth, knowing that she was far away in space
and could not feel, see or hear him. But that didn't matter. He felt his
own good, honest, genuine longing for her, unchecked by the aliens'
control of emotions.

"I'll spring you yet, baby," he said. "And what I told you about that
big apartment on Riverside Drive still goes. We'll have a time together
that ought to be a footnote in history all by itself. I'll see you ...
after I get the real job done."

He heard the soft-shoe rhythm all the way down the corridor, out of the
hospital, and clear back to the city.

       *       *       *       *       *

Clocker's bank balance was sick, the circulation of his tip sheet gone.
But he didn't worry about it; there were bigger problems.

He studied the newspapers before even giving himself time to think. The
news was as bad as usual. He could feel the heat of fission, close his
eyes and see all the cities and farms in the world going up in a
blinding cloud. As far as he was concerned, Barnes and Harding and the
rest weren't working fast enough; he could see doom sprinting in half a
field ahead of the completion of the record.

The first thing he should have done was recapture the circulation of the
tip sheet. The first thing he actually did do was write the story of his
experience just as it had happened, and send it to a magazine.

When he finally went to work on his sheet, it was to cut down the racing
data to a few columns and fill the rest of it with warnings.

"This is what you want?" the typesetter asked, staring at the copy
Clocker turned in. "You _sure_ this is what you want?"

"Sure I'm sure. Set it and let's get the edition out early. I'm doubling
the print order."

"Doubling?"

"You heard me."

When the issue was out, Clocker waited around the main newsstands on
Broadway. He watched the customers buy, study unbelievingly, and wander
off looking as if all the tracks in the country had burned down
simultaneously.

Doc Hawkins found him there.

"Clocker, my boy! You have no idea how anxious we were about you. But
you're looking fit, I'm glad to say."

"Thanks," Clocker said abstractedly. "I wish I could say the same about
you and the rest of the world."

Doc laughed. "No need to worry about us. We'll muddle along somehow."

"You think so, huh?"

"Well, if the end is approaching, let us greet it at the Blue Ribbon. I
believe we can still find the lads there."

They were, and they greeted Clocker with gladness and drinks.
Diplomatically, they made only the most delicate references to the
revamping job Clocker had done on his tip sheet.

"It's just like opening night, that's all," comforted Arnold Wilson
Wyle. "You'll get back into your routine pretty soon."

"I don't want to," said Clocker pugnaciously. "Handicapping is only a
way to get people to read what I _really_ want to tell them."

"Took me many minutes to find horses," Oil Pocket put in. "See one I
want to bet on, but rest of paper make me too worried to bother betting.
Okay with Injun, though--horse lost. And soon you get happy again, stick
to handicapping, let others worry about world."

Buttonhole tightened his grip on Clocker's lapel. "Sure, boy. As long as
the bobtails run, who cares what happens to anything else?"

"Maybe I went too easy," said Clocker tensely. "I didn't print the whole
thing, just a little part of it. Here's the rest."

       *       *       *       *       *

They were silent while he talked, seeming stunned with the terrible
significance of his story.

"Did you explain all this to the doctors?" Doc Hawkins asked.

"You think I'm crazy?" Clocker retorted. "They'd have kept me packed
away and I'd never get a crack at telling anybody."

"Don't let it trouble you," said Doc. "Some vestiges of delusion can be
expected to persist for a while, but you'll get rid of them. I have
faith in your ability to distinguish between the real and unreal."

"But it all _happened_! If you guys don't believe me, who will? And
you've _got_ to so I can get Zelda back!"

"Of course, of course," said Doc hastily. "We'll discuss it further some
other time. Right now I really must start putting my medical column
together for the paper."

"What about you, Handy Sam?" Clocker challenged.

Handy Sam, with one foot up on the table and a pencil between his toes,
was doodling self-consciously on a paper napkin. "We all get these
ideas, Clocker. I used to dream about having arms and I'd wake up still
thinking so, till I didn't know if I did or didn't. But like Doc says,
then you figure out what's real and it don't mix you up any more."

"All right," Clocker said belligerently to Oil Pocket. "You think my
story's batty, too?"

"Can savvy evil spirits, good spirits," Oil Pocket replied with stolid
tact. "Injun spirits, though, not white ones."

"But I keep telling you they ain't spirits. They ain't even human.
They're from some world way across the Universe--"

Oil Pocket shook his head. "Can savvy Injun spirits, Clocker. No
spirits, no savvy."

"Look, you see the mess we're all in, don't you?" Clocker appealed to
the whole group. "Do you mean to tell me you can't feel we're getting
set to blow the joint? Wouldn't you want to stop it?"

"If we could, my boy, gladly," Doc said. "However, there's not much that
any individual or group of individuals can do."

"But how in hell does anything get started? With one guy, two
guys--before you know it, you got a crowd, a political party, a
country--"

"What about the other countries, though?" asked Buttonhole. "So we're
sold on your story in America, let's say. What do we do--let the rest of
the world walk in and take us over?"

"We educate them," Clocker explained despairingly. "We start it here and
it spreads to there. It doesn't have to be everybody. Mr. Calhoun said I
just have to convince a few people and that'll show them it can be done
and then I get Zelda back."

Doc stood up and glanced around the table. "I believe I speak for all of
us, Clocker, when I state that we shall do all within our power to aid
you."

"Like telling other people?" Clocker asked eagerly.

"Well, that's going pretty--"

"Forget it, then. Go write your column. I'll see you chumps
around--around ten miles up, shaped like a mushroom."

He stamped out, so angry that he untypically let the others settle his
bill.

       *       *       *       *       *

Clocker's experiment with the newspaper failed so badly that it was not
worth the expense of putting it out; people refused to buy. Clocker had
three-sheets printed and hired sandwich men to parade them through the
city. He made violent speeches in Columbus Circle, where he lost his
audience to revivalist orators; Union Square, where he was told heatedly
to bring his message to Wall Street; and Times Square, where the police
made him move along so he wouldn't block traffic. He obeyed, shouting
his message as he walked, until he remembered how amusedly he used to
listen to those who cried that Doomsday was near. He wondered if they
were catatonics under imperfect control. It didn't matter; nobody paid
serious attention to his or their warnings.

The next step, logically, was a barrage of letters to the heads of
nations, to the U.N., to editors of newspapers. Only a few of his
letters were printed. The ones in Doc's tabloid did best, drawing such
comments as:

"Who does this jerk think he is, telling us everybody's going to get
killed off? Maybe they will, but not in Brooklyn!"

"When I was a young girl, some fifty years ago, I had a similar
experience to Mr. Locke's. But my explanation is quite simple. The
persons I saw proved to be my ancestors. Mr. Locke's new-found friends
will, I am sure, prove to be the same. The World Beyond knows all and
tells all, and my Control, with whom I am in daily communication Over
There, assures me that mankind is in no danger whatever, except from the
evil effects of tobacco and alcohol and the disrespect of youth for
their elders."

"The guy's nuts! He ought to go back to Russia. He's nothing but a nut
or a Communist and in my book that's the same thing."

"He isn't telling us anything new. We all know who the enemy is. The
only way to protect ourselves is to build TWO GUNS FOR ONE!"

"Is this Locke character selling us the idea that we all ought to go
batty to save the world?"

Saddened and defeated, Clocker went through his accumulated mail. There
were politely non-committal acknowledgments from embassies and the U.N.
There was also a check for his article from the magazine he'd sent it
to; the amount was astonishingly large.

He used part of it to buy radio time, the balance for ads in rural
newspapers and magazines. City people, he figured, were hardened by
publicity gags, and he might stir up the less suspicious and
sophisticated hinterland. The replies he received, though, advised him
to buy some farmland and let the metropolises be destroyed, which, he
was assured, would be a mighty good thing all around.

The magazine came out the same day he tried to get into the U.N. to
shout a speech from the balcony. He was quietly surrounded by a
uniformed guard and moved, rather than forced, outside.

       *       *       *       *       *

He went dejectedly to his hotel. He stayed there for several days,
dialing numbers he selected randomly from the telephone book, and
getting the brushoff from business offices, housewives and maids. They
were all very busy or the boss wasn't in or they expected important
calls.

That was when he was warmly invited by letter to see the editor of the
magazine that had bought his article.

Elated for actually the first time since his discharge from the
hospital, Clocker took a cab to a handsome building, showed his
invitation to a pretty and courteous receptionist, and was escorted into
an elaborate office where a smiling man came around a wide
bleached-mahogany desk and shook hands with him.

"Mr. Locke," said the editor, "I'm happy to tell you that we've had a
wonderful response to your story."

"Article," Clocker corrected.

The editor smiled. "Do you produce so much that you can't remember what
you sold us? It was about--"

"I know," Clocker cut in. "But it wasn't a story. It was an article. It
really--"

"Now, now. The first thing a writer must learn is not to take his ideas
too seriously. Very dangerous, especially in a piece of fiction like
yours."

"But the whole thing is true!"

"Certainly--while you were writing it." The editor shoved a pile of mail
across the desk toward him. "Here are some of the comments that have
come in. I think you'll enjoy seeing the reaction."

Clocker went through them, hoping anxiously for no more than a single
note that would show his message had come through to somebody. He
finished and looked up blankly.

"You see?" the editor asked proudly. "You're a find."

"The new Mark Twain or Jonathan Swift. A comic."

"A satirist," the editor amended. He leaned across the desk on his
crossed forearms. "A mail response like this indicates a talent worth
developing. We would like to discuss a series of stories--"

"Articles."

"Whatever you choose to call them. We're prepared to--"

"You ever been off your rocker?" Clocker asked abruptly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The editor sat back, smiling with polite puzzlement. "Why, no."

"You ought to try it some time." Clocker lifted himself out of the chair
and went to the door. "That's what I want, what I was trying to sell in
my article. We all ought to go to hospitals and get ourself let in and
have these aliens take over and show us where we're going."

"You think that would be an improvement?"

"What wouldn't?" asked Clocker, opening the door.

"But about the series--"

"I've got your name and address. I'll let you know if anything turns up.
Don't call me; I'll call you."

Clocker closed the door behind him, went out of the handsome building
and called a taxi. All through the long ride, he stared at the thinning
out of the city, the huddled suburban communities, the stretches of
grass and well-behaved woods that were permitted to survive.

He climbed out at Glendale Center Hospital, paid the hackie, and went to
the admitting desk. The nurse gave him a smile.

"We were wondering when you'd come visit your wife," she said. "Been
away?"

"Sort of," he answered, with as little emotion as he had felt while he
was being controlled. "I'll be seeing plenty of her from now on. I want
my old room back."

"But you're perfectly normal!"

"That depends on how you look at it. Give me ten minutes alone and any
brain vet will be glad to give me a cushioned room."

Hands in his pockets, Clocker went into the elevator, walked down the
corridor to his old room without pausing to visit Zelda. It was the live
Zelda he wanted to see, not the tapping automaton.

He went in and shut the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Okay, you were right and I was wrong," Clocker told the board of
directors. "Turn me over to Barnes and I'll give him the rest of the
dope on racing. Just let me see Zelda once in a while and you won't have
any trouble with me."

"Then you are convinced that you have failed," said Mr. Calhoun.

"I'm no dummy. I know when I'm licked. I also pay anything I owe."

Mr. Calhoun leaned back. "And so do we, Mr. Locke. Naturally, you have
no way of detecting the effect you've had. We do. The result is that,
because of your experiment, we are gladly revising our policy."

"Huh?" Clocker looked around at the comfortable aliens in their
comfortable chairs. Solid and respectable, every one of them. "Is this a
rib?"

"Visits to catatonics have increased considerably," explained Dr.
Harding. "When the visitors are alone with our human associates, they
tentatively follow the directions you gave in your article. Not all do,
to be sure; only those who feel as strongly about being with their loved
ones as you do about your wife."

"We have accepted four voluntary applicants," said Mr. Calhoun.

Clocker's mouth seemed to be filled with cracker crumbs that wouldn't go
down and allow him to speak.

"And now," Dr. Harding went on, "we are setting up an Information
Section to teach the applicants what you have learned and make the same
arrangement we made with you. We are certain that we shall, before long,
have to increase our staff as the number of voluntary applicants
increases geometrically, after we release the first few to continue the
work you have so admirably begun."

"You mean I _made_ it?" Clocker croaked unbelievingly.

"Perhaps this will prove it to you," said Mr. Calhoun.

He motioned and the door opened and Zelda came in.

"Hello, hon," she said. "I'm glad you're back. I missed you."

"Not like I missed you, baby! There wasn't anybody controlling _my_
feelings."

Mr. Calhoun put his hands on their shoulders. "Whenever you care to, Mr.
Locke, you and your wife are free to leave."

Clocker held Zelda's hands and her calmly fond gaze. "We owe these guys
plenty, baby," he said to her. "We'll help make the record before we
take off. Ain't that what you want?"

"Oh, it is, hon! And then I want you."

"Then let's get started," he said. "The quicker we do, the quicker we
get back."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of At the Post, by Horace Leonard Gold

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AT THE POST ***

***** This file should be named 32413.txt or 32413.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/4/1/32413/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
