The Project Gutenberg EBook of Way of a Rebel, by Walter M. Miller

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Way of a Rebel

Author: Walter M. Miller

Illustrator: Rudolph Palais

Release Date: May 18, 2010 [EBook #32416]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAY OF A REBEL ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            Way of a Rebel

                         By Walter Miller, Jr.

                     Illustrated by Rudolph Palais

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from If Worlds of Science
Fiction April 1954. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: _No one knows the heart of a rebel until his own search for
the reason of right or wrong is made. Lieutenant Laskell found the
answer to his own personal rebellion deep beneath a turbulent Atlantic,
and somehow, when the time came, his decision wasn't too difficult...._]


Lieutenant Laskell surfaced his one-man submarine fifty miles off the
Florida coast where he had been patrolling in search of enemy subs.
Darkness had fallen. He tuned his short wave set to the Miami station
just in time to hear the eight o'clock news. The grim announcement that
he had expected was quick to come:

"In accordance with the provisions of the Twenty-Sixth Amendment,
Congress today approved the Manlin Bill, declaring a state of total
emergency for the nation. President Williston signed it immediately and
tendered his resignation to the Congress and the people. The executive,
legislative, and judiciary are now in the hands of the Department of
Defense. Secretary Garson has issued two decrees, one reminding all
citizens that they are no longer free to shirk their duties to the
nation, the other calling upon the leaders of the Eurasian Soviet to
cease air attacks on the American continent or suffer the consequences.

"In Secretary Garson's ultimatum to the enemy, he stated: 'Heretofore we
have refrained from employing certain weapons of warfare in the vain
hope that you would recognize the futility of further aggression and
desist from it. You have not done so. You have persisted in your
blood-thirsty folly, despite this nation's efforts to reach an agreement
for armistice. Therefore I am forced to command you, in the Name of
Almighty God, to surrender immediately or be destroyed. I shall allow
you one day in which to give evidence of submission. If such evidence is
not forthcoming, I shall implement this directive by a total
attack....'"

Mitch Laskell switched off the short wave set and muttered an oath. He
squeezed his way up through the narrow conning tower and sat on the
small deck, leaning back against the rocket-launcher and dangling his
feet in the calm ocean. The night was windless and warm, with the summer
stars eyeing the earth benignly. But despite the warmth, he felt clammy;
his hands were shaking a little as he lit a cigarette.

The newscast--it came as no surprise. The world had known for weeks that
the Manlin Bill would be passed, and that Garson would be given absolute
powers to lead the nation through the war. And his ultimatum to the
enemy was no surprise. Garson had long favored an all-out radiological
attack, employing every nuclear weapon the country could muster.
Heretofore both sides had limited themselves to non-rigged atomic
explosives, and had refrained from using bacterial weapons. Garson
wanted to take off the boxing-gloves in favor of steel gauntlets. And
now it would happen--the all-out attack, the masterpiece of homicidal
engineering, the final word in destruction.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mitch, reclining in loneliness against the rocket-launcher, blew a
thoughtful cloud of cigarette smoke toward the bright yellow eye of
Arcturus, almost directly overhead, and wondered why the Constellation
Boötes suddenly looked like a big club ready to fall on the earth, when
it had always reminded him of a fly-swatter about to slap the Corona
Borealis. He searched himself for horror, but found only a gloomy
uneasiness. It was funny, he thought; five years ago men would have been
outraged at the notion of an American absolutism, with one man ruling by
decree. But now that it had happened, it was not to hard to accept. He
wondered at it.

And he soon decided that almost any fact could be accepted calmly after
it had already happened. Men would be just as calm after their cities
had been reduced to rubble. The human capacity for calmness was almost
unlimited, _ex post facto_, because the routine of daily living had to
go on, despite the big business of governments whose leaders invoked the
Deity in the cause of slaughter.

A voice, echoing up out of the conning tower, made him jump. The command
set was barking his call letters.

"Unit Sugar William Niner Zero, Mother wants you. I say again: Mother
wants you. Acknowledge please. Over."

The message meant: _return to base immediately_. And it implied an
urgency in the use of the code-word Mother. He frowned and started up,
then fell back with a low grunt.

All of his resentment against the world's political jackasses suddenly
boiled up inside him as a _personal_ resentment. There was something
about the metallic rasp of the radio's voice that sparked him to sudden
rebelliousness.

"Unit Sugar William Niner Zero, Mother wants you, Mother wants you.
Acknowledge immediately. Over."

He had a good idea what it was all about. All subs were probably being
called in for rearmament with cobalt-rigged atomic warheads for their
guided missiles. The submarine force would probably be used to implement
Garson's ultimatum. They would deliver radiological death to Eurasian
coastal cities, and cause the Soviets to retaliate.

_Why must I participate in the wrecking of mechanical civilization?_ he
thought grimly.

But a counter-thought came to trouble him: _I have a duty to obey; The
country gave me birth and brought me up, and now it's got a war to
fight._

He arose and let himself down through the conning tower. He reached for
the microphone, but the receiver croaked again.

"Sugar William Niner Zero, you are ordered to answer immediately.
Mother's fixing shortening bread. Mother wants you. Over."

Shortening bread--big plans, something special, a radiological
death-dish for the world. He hated the voice quietly. His hand touched
the microphone but did not lift it.

He stood poised there in the light of a single glow-lamp, feeling his
small sub rocking gently in the calm sea, listening to the quiet purr of
the atomics beneath him. He had come to love the little sub, despite the
loneliness of long weeks at sea. His only companion was the sub's small
computer which was used for navigation and for calculations pertaining
to the firing of the rocket-missiles. It also handled the probability
mathematics of random search, and automatically radioed periodic
position reports to the home-base computer.

He glanced suddenly at his watch, it was nearly time for a report.
Abruptly he reached out and jerked open the knife-switch in the
computer's antenna circuit. Immediately the machine began clicking and
clattering and chomping. A bit of paper tape suddenly licked out of its
answer-slot. He tore it off and read the neatly printed words:
MALFUNCTION, OPEN CIRCUIT, COMMUNICATIONS OUTPUT; INSERT DATA.

Mitch "inserted data" by punching a button labelled NO REPAIR and
another labelled RADIO OUT. One bank of tubes immediately lost its
filament-glow, and the computer shot out another bit of tape inscribed
DATA ROGERED. He patted it affectionately and grinned. The computer was
just a machine, but he found it easy to personalize the thing....

The command-set was crackling again. "Sugar William Niner Zero, this is
Commsubron Killer. Two messages. Mother wants you. Daddy has a razor
strap. Get on the ball out there, boy! Acknowledge. Over."

Mitch whitened and picked up the microphone. He keyed the transmitter's
carrier and spoke in a quiet hiss. "Commsubron Killer from Sugar William
Niner Zero. Message for Daddy. Sonnyboy just resigned from the Navy. Go
to hell, all of you! Over and out!"

He shut off the receiver just as it started to stutter a shocked reply.
He dropped the mike and let it dangle. He stood touching his fingertips
to his temples and breathing in shallow gasps. Had he gone completely
insane?

He sat down on the floor of the tiny compartment and tried to think. But
he could only feel a bitter resentment welling up out of nowhere. Why?
He had always gotten along in the Navy. He was the undersea equivalent
of a fighter pilot, and he had always liked his job. They had even said
that "he had the killer instinct"--or whatever it was that made him grin
maliciously when he spotted an enemy sub and streaked in for the kill.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now suddenly he didn't want to go back. He wanted to quit the whole damn
war and run away. Because of Garson maybe? But no, hadn't he anticipated
that before it happened? Why should he kick now, when he hadn't kicked
before? And who was _he_ to decide whether Garson was right or wrong?

_Go back_, he thought. _There's the microphone. Pick it up and tell
Commsubron that you went stir-crazy for a little while. Tell him wilco
on his message. They won't do anything to you except send you to a nut
doctor. Maybe you need one. Go on back like a sane man._

But he drew his hand back from the microphone. He wiped his face
nervously. Mitch had never spent much time worrying about ethics and
creeds and political philosophies. He'd had a job to do, and he did it,
and he sometimes sneered at people who could wax starry-eyed about
patriotism and such. It didn't make sense. The old school spirit was
okay for football games, and even for small-time wars, but he had never
felt much of it. He hadn't needed it in order to be a good fighter. He
fought because it was considered the "thing to do," because he liked the
people he had to live with, and because those people wouldn't have a
good opinion of him if he didn't fight. People never needed much of a
philosophic motive to make them do the socially approved things.

He moistened his lips nervously and stared at the microphone. He was
scared. Scared to run away. He had never been afraid of a _fight_,
frightened maybe, but not afraid. Why now? _It takes a lot of courage to
be a coward_, he thought, but the word _coward_ made him wince. He
groped blindly for a reasonable explanation of his desire to desert. He
wanted to talk to somebody about it, because he was the kind of man who
could think best in an argument. But there was no one to talk to except
the radio.

The computer's keyboard was almost at his elbow. He stared at it for a
moment, then slowly typed:

DATA: WIND OUT OF THE NORTH, WAVE FACTOR 0.50 ROUGHNESS SCALE.

INSTRUCTIONS: SUGGEST ACTION.

The machine chewed on the entry noisily for a few seconds, then
answered: INSUFFICIENT DATA.

He nodded thoughtfully. That was his predicament too: insufficient data
about his own motives. How could a man trust himself to judge wisely,
when his judgement went completely against that of his society? He typed
again.

DATA FOR HYPOTHETICAL PROBLEM: YOU HAVE JUST SOLVED A NAVIGATIONAL
PROBLEM WHOSE SOLUTION REQUIRES COURSE DUE WEST. THREE OTHER COMPUTERS
SOLVE SAME PROBLEM AND GET COURSE DUE SOUTH. MALFUNCTION NOT EVIDENT IN
ANY OF FOUR COMPUTERS.

INSTRUCTIONS: FURNISH A COURSE.

The computer clattered for awhile, then typed: SUGGESTION: MALFUNCTION
INDICATORS ARE POSSIBLY MALFUNCTIONING. IS DATA AVAILABLE?

He stared at it, then laughed grimly. His _own_ malfunction-indicator
wasn't telling him much either. With masochistic fatalism he touched the
keyboard again.

DATA NOT AVAILABLE. FURNISH A COURSE.

The computer replied almost immediately this time: COURSE: DUE WEST.

Mitch stared at it and bit his lip. The machine would follow its own
solution, even if the other three contradicted it. Naturally--it would
_have_ to follow its own solution, if there was no indication of
malfunction. But could a human being make such a decision? Could a man
decide, "I am right, and everyone else is wrong?"

_No evidence of malfunction_, he thought. _I am not a coward. Neither am
I insane._

His heart cried: "I am disgusted with this purposeless war. I shall quit
fighting it."

He sighed deeply, then arose. There was nothing else to do. The atomic
engines could go six months without refueling. There were enough
undersea rations to last nearly that long.

He switched on the radio again, goosed the engines to full speed, and
after a moment's thought, swung around on a northeasterly heading. His
first impulse had been to head south, aiming for Yucatan, or the
Guianas--but that impulse would also be the first to strike his pursuers
who were sure to come.

A new voice was growling on the radio, and he recognized it as Captain
Barkley, his usually jovial, slightly cynical commanding officer.
"Listen, Mitch--if you can hear me, better answer. What's wrong with you
anyhow? I can't hold off much longer. If you don't reply, I'll have to
hunt you down. You're ordered to proceed immediately to the nearest
base. Over."

Mitch wanted to answer, wanted to argue and fume and curse, hoping that
he could explain his behaviour to his own satisfaction. But they might
not be certain of his exact location, and if he used the radio,
half-a-dozen direction-finders would swing around to aim along his
signal, and Barkley would plot the half-a-dozen lines on the map in his
office before speaking crisply into his telephone: _all right, boys--get
him! 29° 10' North, 79° 50' West. Use a P-charge if you can't spot him
by radar or sonar._

Mitch left the controls in the hands of the computer and went up to
stand in the conning tower with the churning spray washing his face.
Surfaced, the sub could make sixty knots, and he meant to stay surfaced
until there were hints of pursuit.

       *       *       *       *       *

A three-quarter moon was rising in gloomy orange majesty out of the
quiet sea. It made a river of syrupy light across the water to the east,
and it heightened his sense of unreality, his feeling of detachment from
danger.

Is it always like this, he wondered? Can a man toss aside his society so
easily, become a traitor with so little logical reason? A day ago, he
would not have dreamed it possible. A day ago, he would have proclaimed
with the cynical Barkley, "A sailor's got no politics. What the hell's
it to me if Garson is Big Boss? I'm just a little tooth in a big gear.
Uncle pays my keep. I ask no questions."

And now he was running like hell and stealing several million bucks
worth of Uncle's Navy, all because Garson's pomposity and a radio
operator's voice got under his skin. How could a man be so crazy?

But no, that _couldn't_ be it, he thought. Jeezil! He must have some
better reason. Sort of a last straw, maybe. But he had been conscious of
no great resentment against the war or the Navy or the government.
Historically speaking, wars had never done a great deal of harm--no more
harm than industrial or traffic accidents.

Why was this war any different? It promised to be more destructive than
the others, but that was drawing a rather narrow line. Who was he to
draw his bayonet across the road and say, "Stop here. This is the
limit."

Mitch turned his back toward the whipping spray and stared aft along the
phosphorescent, moon-swept wake of his mechanical shark. The radio was
still barking at him with Barkley's clipped tones.

"Last warning, Laskell! Get on that microphone or suffer the
consequences! We know where you are. I'll give you fifteen minutes, then
we'll come get you. Over and out."

Thanks for the warning, Mitch thought. In a few minutes, he would have
to submerge. His eyes swept the moon-washed heavens for signs of
aircraft, and he watched the dark horizon for hints of pursuit.

He meant to keep the northeasterly course for perhaps ten hours, then
turn off and cruise southeast, passing below Bermuda and on out into the
central Atlantic. Then south--perhaps to Africa or Brazil. A fugitive
for the rest of his days.

"Sugar William Niner Zero," barked the radio. "This is Commsubfleet
Jaybird. Over."

Mitch moistened his lips nervously. The voice was no longer Barkley's.
Commsubfleet Jaybird was Admiral Harrinore. He chuckled bitterly then,
realizing that he was still automatically startled by rank. He remained
in the conning tower, listening.

"Sugar William Niner Zero, this is Commsubfleet Jaybird. If you will
obey orders immediately, I guarantee that you will be allowed to accept
summary discipline. No court martial if you comply. You are to return to
base at once. Otherwise, we shall be forced to blast you out of the
ocean as a deserter to the enemy. Over."

So that was it, he thought. They were worried about the sub falling into
Soviet paws. Some of its equipment was still classified "secret",
although the Reds probably already had it.

No, he wasn't deserting to the enemy. Neither side was right in the
struggle, although he preferred the West's brand of wrongness to the
bloodier wrongness of the Reds. But a man in choosing the lesser of two
evils must first decide whether the choice really _has to be made_, and
if there is not a third and more desirable way. Before picking a weapon
for self-destruction, it might help to reason whether or not suicide is
really necessary.

He smiled sardonically into the gray gloom, knowing that his thinking
was running backwards, that he had acted before reasoning why, that he
was rationalizing in an attempt to soothe himself and absolve himself.
But a lot of human thinking occurred beneath the level of consciousness,
down in the darker regions of the mind where it was not allowed to
become conscious lest it bring shame to the thinker. And perhaps he had
reasoned it all out in that mental half-world where thoughts are inner
ghosts, haunting the possessed man with vague stirrings of uneasiness,
leading him into inexplicable behaviour.

I am free now, he told himself. I have given them my declaration of
independence, and I am an animal struggling to survive. Living in
society, a man must submit to its will, but now I am divorced from it,
and I shall live apart from it if I live at all, and I shall owe it
nothing. The "governed" no longer gives his consent. How many times have
men said, "If you don't like the system here, why don't you get out?"
Well, he was getting out, and as a freeborn human animal, born as a
savage into the world, he had that right, if he had any rights at all.

He grunted moodily and lowered himself down into the belly of the sub.
They would be starting the search soon. He sealed the hatches and opened
the water intakes after slowing to a crawl. The sub shivered and
settled. The indicator crept to ten feet, twenty, thirty. At fifty feet,
he jabbed a button on the computer, and the engines growled a harder
thrust. He kept the northeasterly heading at maximum underwater speed.

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour crept by. He listened for code on the sonar equipment, but heard
only the weird and nameless sea-sounds. He allowed himself a reading
light in the cramped compartment, folded the map-table up from the wall,
and studied the coastline of Africa.

He began to feel a frightening loneliness, although scarcely two hours
had passed since his rebellious decision, and he was accustomed to long
weeks alone at sea. He scoffed at himself. He would get along okay; the
sub would take him any place he wanted to go, if he could escape
pursuit. Surely there must be some part of the world where men were not
concerned with the senseless struggle of the titans. But all such places
were primitive, savage, almost unendurable to a man born and tuned to
the violin-string pitch of technological culture.

Mitch realized dismally that he loved technological civilization, its
giant tools, its roar of mighty engines, its proud structures of
concrete and steel. He could sacrifice his love for particular people,
for particular places and governments--but it was going to be harder to
relinquish mechanical civilization for some stone-age culture lingering
in an out-of-the-way place. Changing tribes was easy, for all tribes
belonged to Man, but renouncing machinery for jungle tools would be more
difficult. A man could change his politics, his friends, his religion,
his country, but Man's tools were a part of his body. Having used a
high-powered rifle, the man subsumed the weapon, made it a part of
himself. Trading it for a stone axe would be like cutting off his arm.
Man was a user of tools, a shaper of environments.

_That was it_, he thought. The reason for his sudden rebellion, the
narrow dividing line between tolerable and insufferable wars. A war that
killed human beings might be tolerable, if it left most of
civilizations' industry intact, or at least restorable, for although men
might die, Man lived on, still possessing his precious tools, still
capable of producing greater ones. But a war that wrecked industry, left
it a tangled jumble of radioactive concrete and steel--that kind of war
was insufferable, as this one threatened to be.

The idea shocked him. Kill a few men, and you scratch the hide of
Historical Man. But wreck the industry, drive men out of the cities,
leave the factories hissing with beta and gamma radiation, and you
amputate the hands of Historical Man the Builder. The machinery of
civilization was a living body, with organismic Man as its brain. And
the brain had not yet learned to use the body for a constructive
purpose. It lacked coordination, and the ability to reason its actions
analytically.

Was _he_ basing action on analytic reason?

Another hour had passed. And then he heard it. The sound of faint sonar
communication. Quickly he nosed upward to twenty feet, throttled back to
half speed, and raised the periscope. With his face pressed against the
eyepiece, he scanned the moonlit ocean in a slow circle. No lights, no
silhouettes against the reflections on the waves.

He started the pumps and prepared to surface. Then the conning tower was
snorting through the water like a rolling porpoise. He shut off the
engines, leaving the sub in utter silence except for the soft wash of
the sea. He adjusted the sonar pickups, turned the amplifier to maximum,
and listened intently. Nothing. Had he imagined it?

He jabbed a button, and a motor purred, rolling out the retractable
radar antenna. Carefully he scanned the sky and sea, watching the
green-mottled screen for blips. Nothing--no ships or aircraft visible.
But he was certain: for a moment he had heard the twitter of undersea
communicators.

       *       *       *       *       *

He sat waiting and listening. Perhaps they had heard his engines,
although his own equipment had caught none of their drive-noise.

The computer was able to supervise several tasks at once, and he set it
to continue sweeping the horizon with the radar, to listen for sonar
code and engine purr while he attended to other matters. He readied two
torpedoes and raised a rocket into position for launching. He opened the
hatch and climbed to stand in the conning tower again, peering grimly
around the horizon.

Minutes later, a buzzer sounded beneath him. The computer had something
now. He glanced at the parabolic radar antenna, rearing its head a dozen
feet above him. It had stopped its aimless scanning and was quivering
steadily on the southeast horizon. _Southeast?_

He lowered himself quickly into the ship and stared at the luminous
screen. Blips--three blips--barely visible. While he watched, a fourth
appeared.

He clamped on his headsets. There it _was_! The faint engine-noise of
ships. His trained senses told him they were subs. Subs out of the
southeast? He had expected interception from the west--first aircraft,
then light surface vessels.

There was but one possible answer: the enemy.

He dived for the radio and waited impatiently for the tubes to warm
again. He found himself shouting into the mic.

"Commsubron Killer, this is Sugar William Niner Zero. Urgent message.
Over."

He was a long way from the station. He repeated the call three times. At
last a faintly audible voice came from the set.

"... this is Commsubron Killer. You are ordered to return
immediately...."

The voice faded again.

"Listen!" Mitch bellowed. "Four, no--_five_ enemy submarine--position
31°50´ North, 73°10´ West, proceeding northwest--roughly, toward
Washington. Probably carrying an answer to Garson's ultimatum. Get help
out here. Over."

He heard only a brief mutter this time. "... ordered not to proceed
toward Washington. Return immediately to--"

"Not me! You fool! Listen! Five--enemy--submarines--" He repeated the
message as slowly as he could, repeated it four times.

"... reading you S-1," came the fading answer. "Are you in distress? I
say again. Are you in distress? Over."

Angrily Mitch keyed the carrier wave, screwed the button tightly down,
and kicked on the four-hundred cycle modulator. Maybe they could get a
directional fix on his signal and home on it.

The blips were gone from the radar scope. The subs had spotted him and
submerged. In a moment he would be catching a torpedo, unless he moved.
He started the engines quickly, and the surfaced sub lurched ahead. He
nosed her toward the enemy craft and opened the throttle. She knifed
through the water like a low-running PT boat, throwing a V-shaped fan of
spray. When he reached the halfway point between his own former position
and the place where the enemy submerged, he began jabbing a release at
three second intervals, laying a trail of deadly eggs. He could hear the
crash of the exploding depth-charges behind him. He swung around to make
another pass.

Then he saw it--the wet metal hulk rearing up like a massive whale dead
ahead. They had discovered the insignificance of their lone and
pint-sized attacker. They were coming up to take him with deck guns.

Mitch reversed the engines and swung quickly away. The range was too
close for a torpedo. The blast would catch them both. He began
submerging quickly. A sickening blast shivered his tiny craft, and then
another. He dropped to sixty feet, then knifed ahead.

God! Why was he doing this? There was no sense in it, if he meant to run
away. But then the thought came: they're returning Old Man Garson's
big-winded threat. They're bringing a snootful of radiological hell, and
that's the damned bayonet-line across the road.

       *       *       *       *       *

Depth charges were crashing around him as he wove a zig-zag course. The
computer was buzzing frantically. Then he saw why. The rocket launcher
hadn't retracted; there was still a rocket in it--with a snootful of
Uranium 235. The thing was dragging at the water, slowing him down,
causing the sub to shudder and lurch.

Apparently all the subs had surfaced, for the charges were falling on
all sides. With the launcher dragging at him, they would get him sooner
or later. He tried to nose upward, but the controls refused.

He knew what would happen if he tried to fire the rocket. Hell, he
didn't have to fire it. All he had to do was fuse it. It had a
water-pressure fuse, and he was beneath exploding depth.

_Don't think about it! Do it!_

No, you've got to think. That's what's wrong. Too much do, not enough
think. They're going to wreck mechanical civilization if they keep it
up. They're going to wreck Man's tools, cut off his hands, and make him
an ape again!

But what's it to you? What can _you_ do?

Dammit! You can destroy five _wrong_ tools that were built to wreck the
_right_ tools.

Mitch, who wanted to quit an all-out war, reached for the fusing switch.
_This_ part was _his_ war; destroy the destroyers, but not the
producers. Even if it didn't make good military sense--

A close explosion sent him lurching aside. He grabbed at the wall and
pushed himself back. The switch--the damn double-toggle _red switch_! He
screamed a curse and struck at it with both fists.

There came a beautiful, blinding light.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Way of a Rebel, by Walter M. Miller

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAY OF A REBEL ***

***** This file should be named 32416-8.txt or 32416-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/4/1/32416/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
