The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Model of a Judge, by William Morrison

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Model of a Judge

Author: William Morrison

Illustrator: Burchard

Release Date: May 19, 2010 [EBook #32431]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MODEL OF A JUDGE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         THE MODEL OF A JUDGE

                         By WILLIAM MORRISON

                       Illustrated by BURCHARD

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from Galaxy Science Fiction
October 1953. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the
U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: _Should a former outlaw become a judge--even if he need only
pass sentence on a layer cake?_]


Ronar was reformed, if that was the right word, but he could see that
they didn't trust him. Uneasiness spoke in their awkward hurried motions
when they came near him; fear looked out of their eyes. He had to
reassure himself that all this would pass. In time they'd learn to
regard him as one of themselves and cease to recall what he had once
been. For the time being, however, they still remembered. And so did he.

Mrs. Claymore, of the Presiding Committee, was babbling, "Oh, Mrs.
Silver, it's so good of you to come. Have you entered the contest?"

"Not really," said Mrs. Silver with a modest laugh. "Of course I don't
expect to win against so many fine women who are taking part. But I just
thought I'd enter to--to keep things interesting."

"That was very kind of you. But don't talk about not winning. I still
remember some of the dishes you served for dinner at your home that time
George and I paid you a visit. Mmmmm--they were really delicious."

Mrs. Silver uttered another little laugh. "Just ordinary recipes. I'm so
glad you liked them, though."

"I certainly did. And I'm sure the judge will like your cake, too."

"The judge? Don't you usually have a committee?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He could hear every word. They had no idea how sharp his sense of
hearing was, and he had no desire to disconcert them further by letting
them know. He could hear every conversation taking place in ordinary
tones in the large reception room. When he concentrated he could make
out the whispers. At this point he had to concentrate, for Mrs. Claymore
leaned over and breathed into her friend's attentive ear.

[Illustration]

"My dear, haven't you heard? We've had such trouble with that
committee--there were such charges of favoritism! It was really awful."

"Really? But how did you find a judge then?"

"Don't look now--no, I'll tell you what to do. Pretend I said something
funny, and throw your head back and laugh. Take a quick glance at him
while you do. He's sitting up there alone, on the platform."

Mrs. Silver laughed gracefully as directed, and her eyes swept the
platform. She became so excited, she almost forgot to whisper.

"Why, he's--"

"Shhh. Lower your voice, my dear."

"Why--he isn't human!"

"He's supposed to be--now. But, of course, that's a matter of opinion!"

"But who on Earth thought of making him judge?"

"No one on Earth. Professor Halder, who lives over on that big asteroid
the other side of yours, heard of the troubles we had, and came up with
the suggestion. At first it seemed absurd--"

"It certainly seems absurd to me!" agreed Mrs. Silver.

"It was the only thing we could do. There was no one else we could
trust."

"But what does he know about cakes?"

"My dear, he has the most exquisite sense of taste!"

"I still don't understand."

"It's superhuman. Before we adopted Professor Halder's suggestion, we
gave him a few tests. The results simply left us gasping. We could mix
all sorts of spices--the most delicate, most exotic herbs from Venus or
Mars, and the strongest, coarsest flavors from Earth or one of the
plant-growing asteroids--and he could tell us everything we had added,
and exactly how much."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I find that hard to believe, Matilda."

"Isn't it? It's honestly incredible. If I hadn't seen him do it myself,
I wouldn't have believed it."

"But he doesn't have human preferences. Wasn't he--wasn't he--"

"Carnivorous? Oh, yes. They say he was the most vicious creature
imaginable. Let an animal come within a mile of him, and he'd scent it
and be after it in a flash. He and the others of his kind made the moon
he came from uninhabitable for any other kind of intelligent life. Come
to think of it, it may have been the very moon we're on now!"

"Really?"

"Either this, or some other moon of Saturn's. We had to do something
about it. We didn't want to kill them off, naturally; that would have
been the easiest way, but so uncivilized! Finally, our scientists came
up with the suggestion for psychological reforming. Professor Halder
told us how difficult it all was, but it seems to have worked. In his
case, at least."

Mrs. Silver stole another glance. "Did it? I don't notice any one going
near him."

"Oh, we don't like to tempt fate, Clara. But, if there were really any
danger, I'm sure the psychologists would never have let him out of their
clutches."

"I hope not. But psychologists take the most reckless risks
sometimes--with other people's lives!"

"Well, there's one psychologist who's risking his own life--and his own
wife, too. You know Dr. Cabanis, don't you?"

"Only by sight. Isn't his wife that stuck-up thing?"

"That's the one. Dr. Cabanis is the man who had actual charge of
reforming him. And he's going to be here. His wife is entering a cake."

"Don't tell me that she really expects to win!"

"She bakes well, my dear. Let's give the she-devil her due. How on Earth
an intelligent man like Dr. Cabanis can stand her, I don't know, but,
after all, he's the psychologist, not I, and he could probably explain
it better than I could."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ronar disengaged his attention.

So Dr. Cabanis was here. He looked around, but the psychologist was not
in sight. He would probably arrive later.

The thought stirred a strange mixture of emotions. Some of the most
painful moments of his life were associated with the presence of Dr.
Cabanis. His early life, the life of a predatory carnivore, had been an
unthinkingly happy one. He supposed that he could call his present life
a happy one too, if you weren't overly particular how you defined the
term. But that period in between!

That had been, to say the least, painful. Those long sessions with Dr.
Cabanis had stirred him to the depths of a soul he hadn't known he
possessed. The electric shocks and the druggings he hadn't minded so
much. But the gradual reshaping of his entire psyche, the period of
basic instruction, in which he had been taught to hate his old life so
greatly that he could no longer go back to it even if the way were open,
and the conditioning for a new and useful life with human beings--that
was torture of the purest kind.

If he had known what was ahead of him, he wouldn't have gone through it
at all. He'd have fought until he dropped, as so many of the others like
him did. Still, now that it was over, he supposed that the results were
worth the pain. He had a position that was more important than it seemed
at first glance. He exercised control over a good part of the food
supply intended for the outer planets, and his word was trusted
implicitly. Let him condemn an intended shipment, and cancellation
followed automatically, without the formality of confirmation by
laboratory tests. He was greatly admired. And feared.

They had other feelings about him too. He overheard one whisper that
surprised him. "My dear, I think he's really handsome."

"But, Charlotte, how can you say that about someone who isn't even
human!"

"He looks more human than many human beings do. And his clothes fit him
beautifully. I wonder--does he have a tail?"

"Not that I know of."

"Oh." There was disappointment in the sound. "He looks like a pirate."

"He was a kind of wolf, they tell me. You'd never guess, to see him,
that he ran on all fours, would you?"

"Of course not. He's so straight and dignified."

"It just shows you what psychology can do."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Psychology, and a series of operations, dear ladies," he thought
sarcastically. "Without them I wouldn't be able to stand so nice and
straight with the help of all the psychologists in this pretty little
solar system of ours."

From behind a potted Martian nut-cactus came two low voices--not
whispers this time. And there was several octaves difference in pitch
between them. One male, one female.

The man said, "Don't be worried, sweetheart. I'll match your cooking and
baking against anybody's."

There was a curious sound, between a click and a hiss. What human beings
called a kiss, he thought. Between the sexes, usually an indication of
affection or passion. Sometimes, especially within the ranks of the
female sex, a formality behind which warfare could be waged.

The girl said tremulously, "But these women have so much experience.
They've cooked and baked for years."

"Haven't you, for your own family?"

"Yes, but that isn't the same thing. I had to learn from a cookbook. And
I had no one with experience to stand over me and teach me."

"You've learned faster that way than you'd have done with some of these
old hens standing at your elbow and giving you directions. You cook too
well. I'll be fat in no time."

"Your mother doesn't think so. And your brother said something about a
bride's biscuits--"

"The older the joke, the better Charles likes it. Don't let it worry
you." He kissed her again. "Have confidence in yourself, dear. You're
going to win."

"Oh, Gregory, it's awfully nice of you to say so, but really I feel so
unsure of myself."

"If only the judge were human and took a look at you, nobody else would
stand a chance. Have I told you within the last five minutes that you're
beautiful?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ronar disengaged his attention again. He found human love-making as
repulsive as most human food.

He picked up a few more whispers. And then Dr. Cabanis came in.

The good doctor looked around, smiled, greeted several ladies of his
acquaintance as if he were witnessing a private strip-tease of their
souls, and then came directly up to the platform. "How are you, Ronar?"

"Fine, Doctor. Are you here to keep an eye on me?"

"I hardly think that's necessary. I have an interest in the results of
the judging. My wife has baked a cake."

"I had no idea that cake-baking was so popular a human avocation."

"Anything that requires skill is sure to become popular among us. By the
way, Ronar, I hope you don't feel hurt."

"Hurt, Doctor? What do you mean?"

"Come now, you understand me well enough. These people still don't trust
you. I can tell by the way they keep their distance."

"I take human frailty into account, Doctor. Frailty, and lack of
opportunity. These men and women haven't had the opportunity for
extensive psychological treatment that I've had. I don't expect too much
of them."

"You've scored a point there, Ronar."

"Isn't there something that can be done for them, Doctor? Some treatment
that it would be legal to give them?"

"It would have to be voluntary. You see, Ronar, you were considered only
an animal, and treatment was necessary to save your life. But these
people are supposed to have rights. One of their rights is to be left
alone with their infirmities. Besides, none of them are seriously ill.
They hurt no one."

For a second Ronar had a human temptation. It was on the tip of his
tongue to say, "Your wife too, Doctor? People wonder how you stand her."
But he resisted it. He had resisted more serious temptations.

       *       *       *       *       *

A gong sounded gently but pervasively. Dr. Cabanis said, "I hope you
have no resentment against me at this stage of the game, Ronar. I'd hate
to have my wife lose the prize because the judge was prejudiced."

"Have no fear, Doctor. I take professional pride in my work. I will
choose only the best."

"Of course, the fact that the cakes are numbered and not signed with the
names of their creators will make things simpler."

"That would matter with human judges. It does not affect me."

Another gong sounded, more loudly this time. Gradually the conversation
stopped. A man in a full dress suit, with yellow stripes down the sides
of his shorts, and tails hanging both front and rear, climbed up on the
platform. His eyes shone with a greeting so warm that the fear was
almost completely hidden. "How are you, Ronar? Glad to see you."

"I'm fine, Senator. And you?"

"Couldn't be better. Have a cigar."

"No, thank you. I don't smoke."

"That's right, you don't. Besides, I'd be wasting the cigar. You don't
vote!" He laughed heartily.

"I understand that they're passing a special law to let--people--like me
vote at the next election."

"I'm for it, Ronar, I'm for it. You can count on me."

The chairman came up on the platform, a stout and dignified woman who
smiled at both Ronar and the Senator, and shook hands with both without
showing signs of distaste for either. The assembled competitors and
spectators took seats.

The chairman cleared her throat. "Ladies and gentlemen, let us open this
meeting by singing the _Hymn of All Planets_."

       *       *       *       *       *

They all rose, Ronar with them. His voice wasn't too well adapted to
singing, but neither, it seemed, were most of the human voices. And, at
least, he knew all the words.

The chairman proceeded to greet the gathering formally, in the name of
the Presiding Committee.

Then she introduced Senator Whitten. She referred archly to the fact
that the Senator had long since reached the age of indiscretion and had
so far escaped marriage. He was an enemy of the female sex, but they'd
let him speak to them anyway.

Senator Whitten just as archly took up the challenge. He had escaped
more by good luck--if you could call it good--than by good management.
But he was sure that if he had ever had the fortune to encounter some of
the beautiful ladies here this fine day, and to taste the products of
their splendid cooking and baking, he would have been a lost man. He
would long since have committed polygamy.

Senator Whitten then launched into a paean of praise for the ancient art
of preparing food.

Ronar's attention wandered. So did that of a good part of the audience.
His ears picked up another conversation, this time whispered between a
man and a woman in the front row.

The man said, "I should have put your name on it, instead of mine."

"That would have been silly. All my friends know that I can't bake. And
it would look so strange if I won."

"It'll look stranger if I win. I can imagine what the boys in the shop
will say."

"Oh, the boys in the shop are stupid. What's so unmanly in being able to
cook and bake?"

"I'm not anxious for the news to get around."

"Some of the best chefs have been men."

"I'm not a chef."

"Stop worrying." There was exasperation in the force of her whisper.
"You won't win anyway."

"I don't know. Sheila--"

"What?"

"If I win, will you explain to everybody how manly I really am? Will you
be my character witness?"

She repressed a giggle.

"If you won't help me, I'll have to go around giving proof myself."

"Shh, someone will hear you."

Senator Whitten went on and on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ronar thought back to the time when he had wandered over the surface of
this, his native satellite. He no longer had the old desires, the old
appetites. Only the faintest of ghosts still persisted, ghosts with no
power to do harm. But he could remember the old feeling of pleasure, the
delight of sinking his teeth into an animal he had brought down himself,
the savage joy of gulping the tasty flesh. He didn't eat raw meat any
more; he didn't eat meat at all. He had been conditioned against it. He
was now half vegetarian, half synthetarian. His meals were nourishing,
healthful, and a part of his life he would rather not think about.

He took no real pleasure in the tasting of the cakes and other
delicacies that born human beings favored. His sense of taste had
remained keen only to the advantage of others. To himself it was a
tantalizing mockery.

Senator Whitten's voice came to a sudden stop. There was applause. The
Senator sat down; the chairman stood up. The time for the judging had
arrived.

They set out the cakes--more than a hundred of them, topped by icings of
all colors and all flavors. The chairman introduced Ronar and lauded
both his impartiality and the keenness of his sense of taste.

They had a judging card ready. Slowly, Ronar began to go down the line.

They might just as well have signed each cake with its maker's name. As
he lifted a portion of each to his mouth, he could hear the quick intake
of breath from the woman who had baked it, could catch the whispered
warning from her companion. There were few secrets they could keep from
him.

At first they all watched intently. When he had reached the fifth cake,
however, a hand went up in the audience. "Madam Chairman!"

"Please, ladies, let us not interrupt the judging."

"But I don't think the judging is right. Mr. Ronar tastes hardly more
than a crumb of each!"

"A minimum of three crumbs," Ronar corrected her. "One from the body of
the cake, one from the icing, and an additional crumb from each filling
between layers."

"But you can't judge a cake that way! You have to eat it, take a whole
mouthful--"

"Please, madam, permit me to explain. A crumb is all I need. I can
analyze the contents of the cake sufficiently well from that. Let me
take for instance Cake Number 4, made from an excellent recipe, well
baked. Martian granis flour, goover eggs, tingan-flavored salt, a trace
of Venusian orange spice, synthetic shortening of the best quality. The
icing is excellent, made with rare dipentose sugars which give it a
delightful flavor. Unfortunately, however, the cake will not win first
prize."

An anguished cry rose from the audience. "Why?"

"Through no fault of your own, dear lady. The purberries used in making
the filling were not freshly picked. They have the characteristic flavor
of refrigeration."

"The manager of the store swore to me that they were fresh! Oh, I'll
kill him, I'll murder him--"

She broke down in a flood of tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ronar said to the lady who had protested, "I trust, madam, that you will
now have slightly greater confidence in my judgment."

She blushed and subsided.

Ronar went on with the testing. Ninety per cent of the cakes he was able
to discard at once, from some fault in the raw materials used or in the
method of baking. Eleven cakes survived the first elimination contest.

He went over them again, more slowly this time. When he had completed
the second round of tests, only three were left. Number 17 belonged to
Mrs. Cabanis. Number 43 had been made by the man who argued with his
wife. Number 64 was the product of the young bride, whom he had still
not seen.

Ronar paused. "My sense of taste is somewhat fatigued. I shall have to
ask for a short recess before proceeding further."

There was a sigh from the audience. The tension was not released, it was
merely relaxed for a short interval.

Ronar said to the chairman, "I should like a few moments of fresh air.
That will restore me. Do you mind?"

"Of course not, Mr. Ronar."

He went outside. Seen through the thin layer of air which surrounded the
group of buildings, and the plastic bubble which kept the air from
escaping into space, the stars were brilliant and peaceful. The Sun, far
away, was like a father star who was too kind to obliterate his
children. Strange, he thought, to recall that this was his native
satellite. A few years ago it had been a different world. As for
himself, he could live just as well outside the bubble as in it, as well
in rarefied air as in dense. Suppose he were to tear a hole in the
plastic--

Forbidden thoughts. He checked himself, and concentrated on the three
cakes and the three contestants.

"You aren't supposed to let personal feelings interfere. You aren't even
supposed to know who baked those cakes. But you know, all right. And you
can't keep personal feelings from influencing your judgment.

"Any one of the cakes is good enough to win. Choose whichever you
please, and no one will have a right to criticize. To which are you
going to award the prize?

"Number 17? Mrs. Cabanis is, as one of the other women has so aptly
termed her, a bitch on wheels. If she wins, she'll be insufferable. And
she'll probably make her husband suffer. Not that he doesn't deserve it.
Still, he thought he was doing me a favor. Will I be doing him a favor
if I have his wife win?

"Number 64, now, is insufferable in her own right. That loving
conversation with her husband would probably disgust even human ears. On
the other hand, there is this to be said for her winning, it will make
the other women furious. To think that a young snip, just married,
without real experience in home-making, should walk away with a prize of
this kind!

"Ah, but if the idea is to burn them up, why not give the prize to
Number 43? They'd be ready to drop dead with chagrin. To think that a
mere man should beat them at their own specialty! They'd never be able
to hold their heads up again. The man wouldn't feel too happy about it,
either. Yes, if it's a matter of getting back at these humans for the
things they've done to me, if it's a question of showing them what I
really think of them, Number 43 should get it.

"On the other hand, I'm supposed to be a model of fairness. That's why I
got the job in the first place. Remember, Ronar? Come on, let's go in
and try tasting them again. Eat a mouthful of each cake, much as you
hate the stuff. Choose the best on its merits."

       *       *       *       *       *

They were babbling when he walked in, but the babbling stopped quickly.
The chairman said, "Are we ready, Mr. Ronar?"

"All ready."

The three cakes were placed before him. Slowly he took a mouthful of
Number 17. Slowly he chewed it and swallowed it. Number 43 followed,
then Number 64.

After the third mouthful, he stood lost in thought. One was practically
as good as another. He could still choose which he pleased.

The assemblage had quieted down. Only the people most concerned
whispered nervously.

Mrs. Cabanis, to her psychologist husband: "If I don't win, it'll be
your fault. I'll pay you back for this."

The good doctor's fault? Yes, you could figure it that way if you wanted
to. If not for Dr. Cabanis, Ronar wouldn't be the judge. If Ronar
weren't the judge, Mrs. C. would win, she thought. Hence it was all her
husband's fault. Q.E.D.

The male baker to his wife: "If he gives the prize to me, I'll brain
him. I should never have entered this."

"It's too late to worry now."

"I could yell 'Fire'," he whispered hopefully. "I could create a panic
that would empty the hall. And then I'd destroy my cake."

"Don't be foolish. And stop whispering."

The young post-honeymooning husband: "You're going to win, dear; I can
feel it in my bones."

"Oh, Greg, please don't try to fool me. I've resigned myself to losing."

"You won't lose."

"I'm afraid. Put your arm around me, Greg. Hold me tight. Will you still
love me if I lose?"

"Mmmm." He kissed her shoulder. "You know, I didn't fall in love with
you for your cooking, sweetheart. You don't have to bake any cakes for
me. You're good enough to eat yourself."

"He's right," thought Ronar, as he stared at her. "The man's right. Not
in the way he means, but he's right." And suddenly, for one second of
decision, Ronar's entire past seemed to flash through his mind.

The young bride never knew why she won first prize.





End of Project Gutenberg's The Model of a Judge, by William Morrison

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MODEL OF A JUDGE ***

***** This file should be named 32431.txt or 32431.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/4/3/32431/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
