Project Gutenberg's The Giants From Outer Space, by Geoff St. Reynard

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Giants From Outer Space

Author: Geoff St. Reynard

Release Date: May 23, 2010 [EBook #32485]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GIANTS FROM OUTER SPACE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net










                       The Giants From Outer Space

                          By Geoff St. Reynard

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from Imagination May 1954.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: Grim terror lurked in the void many light years from Earth.
But Pinkham and his men were unaware of it--until suddenly they
discovered--The Giants From Outer Space]




CHAPTER I


"Okay, make another check on the reading."

"I've made four checks already--"

"Damn it, make another!"

"It's no use, Pink. The life-scanner's never wrong."

"No possibility of a monkey wrench dropped into its innards? It couldn't
be seeing things that aren't there?"

"Not in a million years."

"Then there's no water, no air, no gravity worth mentioning, and
still--"

"That's right. There's life on that silly-looking little apple. _There's
somebody sitting on it!_"

In the ninetieth star system to be explored by the insatiably curious
men of Earth, there were seven planets. Between the fourth and fifth
from the star there was a belt of asteroids: some three or four thousand
tiny planetary bodies traveling in vast ellipses around the star. At one
time they had probably constituted a single planet, but some
unimaginable explosion far back in time had scattered the great ball
broadcast, and the largest of the resulting planetoids was now no more
than 440 miles across. In the gargantuan belt of them, many were no
bigger in diameter than the spaceship _Elephant's Child_ herself.

When the instruments of the ship detected this belt of asteroids,
Captain Pinkham turned aside as a matter of course, to cruise through it
and let his cartographer map it, his organicus officer check it for
signs of life, and all his other crewmen turn their inquisitive eyes and
machines upon it. It was the seventh asteroid belt to be discovered by
man, if you included the one between the orbits of Jupiter and Mars,
back home, incredible light-years behind....

No life had ever been discovered on an asteroid, except for the
vegetable-animal space-eating bacteria on Pallas. No life--

Until now.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Pinkham headed for the tiny bit of planet, let his ship's
screens pick it up and relay its presence to the automatic recoil
engines, which slammed the _Elephant's Child_ to a stop about twelve
feet away from the knobbly slate-gray surface. The energy testers,
having come into play simultaneously with the screens, at once flashed
the green "Not Radioactive" sign; a fairly useless gesture, since a
positive reaction would have turned the ship away at an angle before it
entered the danger zone.

The senior officer; said, "Jerry, let's take a look at that critter you
think is perched on this thing."

The organicus officer grinned with one corner of his mouth. He pulled
down a platinum lever, and a thirty-inch screen above his control board
sprang to life. The black of space showed the bumpy planetoid like a
ball of cold lava, and seated in the center of the screen, a man in a
spacesuit.

Captain Pinkham licked his lips. "Okay," he said, "I owe you a shot of
rye. You were right." Then he blinked his gray eyes. "My God!" he
roared. "What's a human being doing out here in System Ninety?"

The outburst, he felt, was quite justified; in fact, he might have gone
stark raving crazy with justification. There seemed no possibility that
his space armada could have been preceded to this star system by another
from Earth. The ancient Martians might have made it this far, but their
spacesuits were nothing like those of Terra. So he and Jerry were now
staring at a hopeless absurdity. It couldn't be there.

Pinkham leaned sideways and bellowed into the intercom. "Get in here!
Everybody! On the double!"

The crew came running, from the engine rooms, the astrogatium and
astrolab, from the sleeping quarters and the mess hall. The ship was
gigantic; it took twenty minutes, for the ship's complement to assemble
in the captain's control hall. There were fifty-seven men, eighteen
officers. They stood in casual formation and gaped at the life-scanner's
screen.

The spacesuited figure had not moved.

Captain Pinkham said, "One question. Which of you gadget-happy jokers
gimmicked up the scanner on us? Who did this?"

Nobody said anything. Only one man smiled: Lieutenant Joe Silver, a very
bright, very ambitious big cub who was on his second extragalactic
expedition and obviously had visions of earning his captain's bronze
comets within the year. Joe was a rather unpleasant young piece of beef,
thought Pink; but he wouldn't pull practical jokes. He was too bloody
serious. If he smiled, it was probably because he was enjoying the
Captain's evident bewilderment.

"Then it isn't a joke," said Pinkham. "Three of you outside repairmen
get into your suits and bring _that_ in." He gestured at the silent
figure on the motionless little world of the scanner. "Jerry says it's
alive. Handle with care." He waved them his dismissal.

Some twenty minutes later he watched the screen as the three crewmen
descended to the surface of the planetoid, pried loose the double anchor
which the unknown Earthman had sunk into the ball's crust to hold him
steady on the almost-gravityless world, lifted the bulky figure and
leaped upward, like thick but weightless panthers carrying their prey,
into the open air-lock.

The spacesuited stranger had not moved in the slightest.

Yet the scanner, which was never wrong, said that within the armor of
the suit was life.

Pinkham sat staring at the blanked-out screen, and a queer chill began
to crawl up his neck. An old slang phrase came to his mind, and wouldn't
leave.

How come? How come? _How come?_




CHAPTER II


Pink and Jerry and Joe Silver walked around and around the spacesuit.
Bill Calico, the astrogator, and Washington Daley, the senior
lieutenant, sat in front of it on stools covered with Venusian
joerg-hide, going through a routine of flippant gags that thinly
disguised their bafflement. Finally Pinkham said, "When were these suits
invented?"

"2144," said Joe Silver.

Bright kid, thought Pink with irritation. "Thirty-odd years ago. That's
my guess, too."

"October 1st, 2144, is the patent date," said Joe Silver smugly.

"Click, click, click," said Daley. "Your mind is a damn file room,
Silver. It gives me the jitters."

Joe Silver looked at him expressionlessly.

"I just read the date on the instruction plate," he said.

Captain Pinkham bent down and read aloud from the nayrust plate set
into the back of the spacesuit.

"'Bernard Patent Slugjet Suit, size 24-B patented' ... here it is.
'Instructions for reviving occupant. The man in this suit is alive if
the translucent face plate is tinted orange.'"

"It is," said Bill Calico with eagerness.

"'Unscrew the seven small x-screws around face plate. Depress lever Z on
right side of chest plate. Loosen gorget, shoulder pieces, pallettes,
brassarts, cuisses....'" They were following the instructions as he
read. He thought, these suits were terrific, they were the best. But you
had to have a billion dollars behind your expedition or you couldn't
afford 'em. Each one cost half as much as a regular-size moon rocket!
They shouldn't have stopped making them, though. They ought to have
tried bringing down the cost. One of these could save a man's life when
nothing else in God's universe could; and a man's life is surely worth
as much as half a moon rocket?

The Bernard Slugjet Suit. Guaranteed to keep a guy alive for a minimum
of 250 years in free space. Guaranteed to let him emerge healthy
and--miraculously--sane, provided he was picked up within the time
limit.

You were jetting toward the edge of the galaxy, say. Your ship ran into
trouble. A big meteor tore out your belly, or your fuel gave out, or any
of a million things happened to crack up the beautiful great spaceship
that was your vehicle and your pride and almost _you_, an extension of
yourself, an expression of your yearning to conquer the stars. So you
got into your slugjet suit and walked out an air-lock, if you had enough
warning, that is. And there you were in space.

Your suit was actually a miniature spaceship itself; if there was land
anywhere near, you aimed for it, loosed your powerful shoulder jets, and
shot toward it. The suit had a range of about five hundred thousand
miles, which was often enough.

But suppose it wasn't. Then you just stayed there in black space, and
you started to touch buttons in the big gloves, to pull levers on the
chest, and to activate other circuits by the sound of your voice. And
the suit became a world for you, a world that kept you healthy and sane
for a quarter of a millennium.

Your life processes were slowed down to a pace of only a crawl and a
mumble, next door to death. Your breathing couldn't be detected. Your
heart beat six times to the hour. Drugs did it, and vapors, the
depressants of a hundred planets gathered and refined by Bernard for
his suits.

You didn't sleep; you didn't need to. You were a slug, a worm in a
cocoon, awake in an ultra-slow-motion way. In 250 years, you aged about
fifteen. The suits were supposed to have a maximum efficiency of a
thousand years; you came out an old man at the end of that time, maybe,
but it was an even bet that you _did_ come out.

And to keep your mind whole and unwarped, there in the immensity of
brain-shattering space, you were entertained--well and constantly.

Three-dimensional movies were shown on your translucent face plate, so
slow that to a person with unhampered reflexes they would look like
stills. Music played to you, a low drone and buzz that to you was jazz,
classical, anything you selected. The Minute Waltz took several hours to
play in your ear.

Body wastes and carbon dioxide were eliminated, and breathable air
released, by the same principles in use in spaceships. You were fed
intravenously, vitamins, concentrates of everything you needed were
stuck into you without your knowing it, for you lived too slowly to be
capable of pain. The temperature of your suit was even. Audiotherapy was
given you at suitable intervals. You were rescued, and came out of your
suit as well-adjusted, as balanced as you'd gone in. Maybe more so.

Rescued? It wasn't all left to luck. The radio in your high bulbous
crest broadcast a constant S.O.S. Your suit glowed so that it could be
spotted easily, a crimson star against the blackness. Your own life
within it called to every life-scanner within 500,000 miles.

Meanwhile, you were in a damn fine world of your own....

Pinkham finished reading the instructions, and walked around to the
front of the bulky suit. Bill Calico lifted off the crest, Daley removed
the helmet, Jerry and Joe Silver caught the suit as it fell away in two
sections.

And Captain Pinkham caught the girl.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was slim and full in the places where a woman ought to be so, and
her hair, close-cropped, was black-brown and shining. Her face was good,
damn good, bloody damn fine to a spaceman who'd been out on the ways for
a couple of years; but Pink had the happy thought--it was the first one
he had, before the shock really hit him that that this was a
_girl_--that she would have looked just as good to him on Earth.

She wore the uniform of an organicus officer: just a bit dated, the
lapels too wide by an inch, the synthetic fabric of the jacket just a
little more clinging and revealing than the current fashion, the pants
narrow at the cuff where today's were bell-bottomed. She must have been
out here a while; not more than thirty years, though. She did not look
more than twenty-five now, and the normal life span was a hundred
and ten.... Pink snapped his queer thoughts sharply into line. What did
her age matter to him?

She was limp in his arms, as relaxed as a sleeping kitten. Her eyes,
deep brown, were open but heavy-lidded. He half-knelt, cradling her
comfortably, as Jerry anticipated his question and said, "She's okay.
She'll be out of it in a few minutes. She's still living slower than we
are."

Joe Silver, unaccountably across the room by the life-scanner, said,
"Hey! There's another one!"

"Another what?" asked his senior lieutenant, Daley.

"Another fellow--or girl--in a Slugjet. Down that direction a few
thousand miles."

As all of them but Pink raced to the screen, the girl began to sing,
softly, musically, and very slowly.

    "_I am sick of this bucketing Lunar run
    In this dirty old steel cocoon;
    I'm sick of the Earth and I'm sick of the Sun
    And I'm sick to death of the Moon...._"

That was--what was the name?--the Lament of the Veteran Rocketeer, a
ballad that Pink had been singing in his grade school days. He hadn't
heard it for more than a dozen years. Probably popular when this gal
blasted off Terra.

She stopped singing. "'Bout time you got here," she said drowsily. "I've
been waiting for months. Didn't Fawcett's crest radio reach you?"

"Take it easy," said Pink, and told himself that was a stupid thing to
say. "Who are you? What was your expedition?"

She blinked. "You aren't Commander Dyevis, are you? Who are you?"

"I'm Joe Silver," said that young upstart over Pinkham's shoulder.

"Nobody asked you," said Daley. They had left the screen, all but Jerry,
who was making course for the second speck of life in the asteroid belt.

"This is the _Elephant's Child_, flagship of Armada Seven, 843 days out
of Terra to explore star systems 87 through 93," said Pink quietly. "We
just plucked you off an asteroid in System Ninety. This is--" _take it
easy_, he said to himself this time, "this is October 18th, 2176."

"Holy Holmendis," said the girl, turning a little pale. "Our ship split
up her seams in November of 2158."

Daley, the oldest of the lot at thirty-six, and the coolest spacehead of
them all, said, "May I introduce Captain John Pinkham, our leader?"
Formalities eased a shock, he knew, and helped you over the rough spots.
"I'm Lt. Washington Daley and you are--"

"Organicus Officer Circe Smith, of Colonel Fawcett's exploratory
armada," she said automatically.

"Fawcett!" said everyone, loudly and with amazement.

"So he got to System Ninety," said Pink. "Every spaceman on the ways has
wondered about Fawcett for eighteen years. He vanished with two ships--"

"She knows that, Captain," said Daley.

"Oh. Of course."

"Our other ship was still okay when we broke up," said O. O. Smith,
brushing her short hair back from a forehead that was wide and
intelligent. "My crest radio was on the fritz, but Fawcett's was all
right and he was supposed to call Commander Dyevis, who was cruising
down by Planet Four. At least half a dozen of us got off in Slugjet
Suits before the ship died. I guess his message never got to Dyevis."

"Lord knows," said Pinkham. The _Elephant's Child_ shivered slightly as
her recoil engines stopped her. Jerry came over from the controls.

"There's another one sitting outside," he said casually.

"Maybe it's Colonel Fawcett," the girl cried eagerly.

Jerry shook his head. "I'm afraid not." He looked at her a moment, then
turned to Pinkham. "This one has four arms," he said.




CHAPTER III


They sat at dinner, the eighteen officers of the _Elephant's Child_,
eating fresh vegetables and curried lamb from the hydroponics farm and
the frozen food lockers. On either side of Captain Pinkman sat O. O.
Circe Smith, of the lamented Fawcett expedition, and First Officer Ynohp
of the extinct Martian Space Navy.

"If you Terrestrians came to Mars over one hundred years ago," Ynohp was
saying, in a clear and metallic voice that came from the lingoalter on
his chest--a tiny box which could be set to change any of nine thousand
spoken languages into any one of the others--"and at that time my people
had lost the secrets of space travel for approximately four thousand
years, this means that I have been reclining on a planetoid here for at
least 4,100 years. The probability is that it has been much longer.
Unfortunately my time recorder has long since become inoperative."

He extended one of his four rib appendages and picked up a piece of
carrot. "Naturally I was in a cataleptic state," he went on. "As you may
know, in my race that means that all body processes are suspended _in
toto_. There is no growth and no decay. Moth and rust do not corrupt,
you might put it."

Pink frowned momentarily. There was a false note somewhere, but he
couldn't put his finger on it. He tried to remember all he could about
the dying race of Martians. What Ynohp was saying was correct, as nearly
as he could recall, but ... he shrugged. My God! he thought, this
critter's over four thousand years old!

Well, Circe's about forty-five.

The hell she is. She's twenty-seven, which was her age when her ship was
wrecked, plus about one actual year of life which equals the eighteen
she was lost in the Slugjet. Twenty-eight, then, really. I'm thirty-one.
Not a bad combination.

Hey, boy, you're a confirmed bachelor, remember?

He chuckled. Who says so? He took a look at Circe. The prettiest
spaceman who ever came my way, he said to himself happily.

The dinner broke up. Space etiquette demanded that he escort the Martian
to his stateroom first, for the four-armed little gray man was senior to
a mere organicus officer; when he returned to the mess hall, he found
that Joe Silver had whisked Circe away to show her the new improvements
in space drives and other technical details.

"At least," said Bill Calico, "he said he was going to."

Pink went off to talk to Jerry, who was a lousy substitute for a
beautiful girl.

He found his O. O. tinkering with the life-scanner.

"Something wrong," Jerry said through his teeth. He was a slim young
man--Pink, who stood six-three and hefted in at two hundred, would have
made two of Jerry--and his normally joyous expression was now writhed
into a frown. "The red light's not on, but the scanner's not working."

"How d'you know?"

"Had a hunch. Don't ask me why--unless it's that the Martian makes me
suspicious. Anyway, I tested the scanner; turned it inside and aimed it
all over the ship. Nothing doing. No life in here, according to it. So
something's the matter with it, and I'm damned if I can figure what."

Pink said, "That means what?"

"Means that if Fawcett or any of his men are out there, we won't know
it. We could flash right by them, or through 'em for that matter, and
never know it."

"Nothing more serious, though?"

"That's bad enough, isn't it?" Jerry asked him.

"Sure, sure." Pink shook himself. "I feel--I guess _wary_ is the word."
Jerry looked a question. "Yeah," said Pinkham uncomfortably, "it's the
Martian. A nice guy and all, but he makes me wonder."

"Four thousand years plus," nodded Jerry.

"No, not that. I think that's possible. It's something else, son."

"What?"

Pink said slowly, futilely, "I don't know." He patted the O.O.'s
shoulder. "Keep at it, Jerry." He went out and walked down the long ramp
to the astrolab. Daley was there. "How's it going?" Pink asked him.

"We aren't moving," said the lieutenant.

"I know. I told Kinkare to put her into the same orbit as the asteroid
belt. We want to stay in the same relation to the planetoids till we
decide where to look for Fawcett."

"I know you issued those orders, Pink. I meant we aren't in the orbit.
We're hanging in space, and the dang asteroids are shooting past us."
Daley flipped on his great banks of scanners. "See?" Bands of light were
tiny balls of inert matter, flashing by an obviously stationary
_Elephant's Child_.

Pink jumped for the intercom. "No use," said Daley. "It's dead. I sent
Calico for Randy Kinkare." They looked at each other. "I think it's
Ynohp," said Daley.

Pinkham took out a pad and pencil. Without saying anything, without
admitting to himself that he agreed with his officer, he put down a
number of figures. Then he said, "I left Ynohp just fourteen minutes ago
in his stateroom. I've put down the distances he'd have to travel to
reach all the things that have gone wrong since then. He could have done
it--if he was invisible, and could move at the rate of two hundred feet
per second."

"Maybe he can."

"You know Martians have the same rate of speed, roughly speaking, as
Terrestrians."

"And if Ynohp isn't a Martian at all?"

"Washington, did you ever see a Martian?"

"Yeah."

"Could anything in the universe make itself look like a four-foot-tall,
four-armed, slate-gray man with pink eyes?"

"I don't know," said Daley. "Maybe there's something in System Ninety
that can. Hypnotism, matter transference, fluidity or a lot of other
facts could explain it."

Kinkare and Bill Calico came in on the run.

Their news didn't surprise Pink greatly.

The space drive was out of commission.

They were adrift in the void.




CHAPTER IV


The intercom, the space drive, the life-scanner. So far apart that one
man _couldn't_ have put them out of whack. No one connected in any way
with the others. Ynohp snoring gently in his stateroom. Pinkham, Daley,
Silver, Kinkare, Jerry Jones, Calico, and the girl, all gathered in the
Captain's quarters, tense, baffled, and all talking at once.

And out of the hubbub, one clear sweet voice saying something that
didn't make sense and yet electrified Pink as if he'd put his hand on a
lighted cigar....

"Maybe it's the space giants?"

"Shut up!" bawled Pinkham. The officers turned toward him, brows
lifting, mouths still open. "Now," he said quietly, "Circe--Miss
Smith--what did you say?"

"Space giants," she repeated "I don't think they exist, but I certainly
saw something."

"Give it to us slow," said Daley.

"Well, a couple of times while I was anchored to the asteroid, watching
tri-di movies, I had the impression that something enormous was floating
just beyond my face plate, watching me. Of course I was slowed down so
far that it must have taken me an hour to register the fact, and another
hour or two to flick my eyes up away from the movies. What was a second
to me was at least that long. But just once I got a clear view of
something incredible. It vanished almost at once."

"What was it?"

"A very big man, naked, bald, with eyes like fires. That's the only way
I can describe him. He looked humanoid, except he was so big."

"How big?"

"I can't tell and hate to make a guess--but at least a thousand feet. Of
course I hadn't anything to compare him with."

"Wait a minute," said Randy Kinkare, the assistant pilot, voice reeking
with unbelief. "How could you see through an opaque face plate?"

"It's not opaque," said Joe Silver officiously. "It's translucent from
without and transparent from within. I took a look at it this
afternoon."

"Space giants," groaned someone. "Oh, Lord!"

"We can't discount it," said Pink, realizing that he was doing just
that, but refusing to disbelieve Circe. Illusion? Not a lie, surely?
"She wasn't drugged, after all. She was in full control of senses that
were merely slowed down."

There was a discomfortable silence.

Intercom, space drive, life-scanner. Maybe other machinery by this time.
Sabotage in such a clever way that no one of the highly skilled officers
and technicians could discover how it was done, what was wrong. Space
giants? Ah, come on, Pink!

Ynohp. Something wrong with him, some flaw in his looks? No, he was
Martian in every oversize pore. Some anachronism?

Hey! Anachronism. Pink's mind fished up the dictionary definition. An
error in chronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each
other....

He had it.

He got to his feet, motioned Jerry and Wash Daley to go with him. They
congregated outside the door, as further talk broke out inside his
quarters. He said urgently, "Remember what Ynohp said about his
cataleptic state? 'Moth and rust do not corrupt.' He said it as if it
were a quotation."

"It is," said Daley. "More or less word for word it's from the King
James version of the Bible."

"Dated, if I remember correctly, about 1611 A.D.?"

"Yes."

"At which date the Martians had been without space flight for about
3,600 years. At which date, further, Ynohp claims to have been sitting
on an asteroid for about 4,000-plus years."

"Coincidence?" asked Jerry.

Pink asked, "Do you think so?"

"Hell," said Jerry, "no."

"Let's go look at his space suit," said Daley urgently. They ran down
the corridor, shoving for the lead.

Ten minutes later they sat back on their heels and stared at the
interior of the suit.

Rust had corrupted here, or at any rate decay; the Martian steel,
ancient and harder than any known metal, was worn to a papery shell, and
in many places tiny holes had eroded clear through the suit.

"No man or Martian or anything I know except the space-eating bacteria
of Pallas could have lived in that suit, cataleptic state or not." Pink
looked around at his friends. "_What in the name of heaven have we
brought into the ship?_"

Then the three were racing for the "Martian's" stateroom. They burst in,
and found that now it was empty of life.

They stood, indecisive, just outside. Pinkham's gaze went to the door,
on which, as was the custom, a hastily-printed card had been placed with
the officer's name upon it. He read it. Then he blinked.

"Look," he said, gesturing.

"What about it?"

The card blared its secret, its pun, at them.

Y N O H P.

"Read it backwards," said Pinkham....




CHAPTER V


"None of you thought to look at the Martian spacesuit when we'd removed
it?" asked Pink. The others shook their heads. They were all in his
quarters again.

"Neither did you, Captain," said Joe Silver. "You were as busy looking
at the Martian as we were."

"True enough," admitted Pinkham. "Well, the thing to do first is radio
the _Diogenes_ and the _Cottabus_ to stand by for trouble." He lit a
cigarette. "If the radio hasn't been tampered with," he said. "Silver,
go tell Sparks to start sending to them. _Diogenes_ is down by Planet
Five, and _Cottabus_ heading for Four. Tell them to look for us
somewhere in the planetoid orbit. They'll have to come in on the radio
beam. I don't suppose we can expect them for a day." Joe Silver gave
Circe's arm an encouraging squeeze--they'd got on together pretty damn
fast--and started out. "And instruct them not to pick up anybody, off
asteroids or planets or out of the ether. I don't care if they see their
grandmothers floating outside a spaceport."

The thought of his armada joining him made Pink feel more at ease. No
sense to that, of course, but three ships are better than one, if only
for moral support. "Daley," he said then, "lower the Mutiny Gates."

"You think it's wise?"

"If I didn't, I wouldn't do it," he snapped. It would be the first time
that a mutiny gate had been used in more than forty years. All the large
ships were equipped with them, great plastikoid barriers which operated
from the captain's room, sealing off the officer's sector from the rest
of the ship. They had been made standard equipment in the old days,
before screenings became really effective and the danger of
psychopathic trouble in the crew grew negligible. Now they were of
theoretical use in case of boarding by alien life, or of damage to a
large segment of the hull ... but they had never actually been brought
into play in Pinkham's lifetime. "Drop 'em," he repeated.

Daley pulled open a drawer, tugged at an unused switch, which creaked
protestingly; then the brief alarm clang that heralded the fall of the
forty gates sounded in the distance. "If he's beyond the gates," the
senior lieutenant said heavily, "the crew may be done for."

"No more than if the gates were up," Pink told him impatiently.

"You're projecting," said Daley. "How do we know the nature of the
beast? He may mop 'em up in a fit of pique at being shut out there."

"The chances are he's on our side of the walls," said Bill Calico.
"Nothing out there of much importance to him. The hydroponics farm,
history room, library, and so on."

"We don't know what's important to him," said Daley. "We don't know what
in blazes he wants aboard. We don't know a doggone thing!"

Silver returned. "I heard the mutiny gates go," he said questioningly.

"Are you all armed?" asked Pink. They nodded. "Then let's sweep the
place," he said, glancing from one grim face to another. "Pick up the
other officers as we go, and make a chain of inspection that he can't
bust through. We'll corner him sooner or later. Then we'll see if atomic
pistols will settle his hash." He looked at Circe. "You'd better stay
here," he said.

"I agree," said Randy Kinkare suddenly. "And you'd best lock her
in--from the outside."

"Why?" blazed the girl.

"We picked you up on an asteroid too," said the assistant pilot.

Pink, restraining himself from bashing Kinkare in the nose, said
reluctantly, "You're right. We can't trust any stranger till we find out
what's going on. Sorry, Circe."

"I suppose you're right." She sat down, a little flushed, eyes snapping.
"Have I the right to ask for protection? I'm just as unsafe as you are,
whether you believe me or not. Please leave Lieutenant Silver to guard
me."

He couldn't refuse. He nodded curtly to Joe Silver, who looked too damn
smug for words. So they'd paired off already? So much for his quick
dream of marrying a spacegirl....

It had never happened to him before, though, and it was a hard dream to
give up, all the more so for its abrupt flowering in a heart that
heretofore had held nothing but love for the silence of the spaceways.
John Pinkham, rugged, handsome, all a woman could want, had been
dedicated to his profession since he was five; and many a wench had
found that out to her disappointment. Now ... oh, well. Maybe there
wasn't room for space and a girl in his heart, after all. And maybe she
wasn't what she seemed.

He led them into the corridor and locked the quarters behind him.

Around the first bend and up the first ramp they found Second Watch
Officer Wright. They knew him by his chubby build and his uniform. They
couldn't recognize his head, even when they found it three minutes
later.




CHAPTER VI


They gathered in Sparks' radio room. That was due to the simple fact
that, aside from themselves, only Sparks was alive on this side of the
mutiny gates. The other officers were scattered--in the most grisly
sense of the word--all over the place.

"Seven of us, if Silver's still alive," said Daley. "Eight with the
girl. Why us? He could easily have attacked us in a body." Five of the
dead officers had been found in a heap, just-used pistols in their rigid
hands. Atomic force was obviously useless against the thing from the
asteroid.

Pink said, fighting nausea, "All the senior officers are alive. We can
run the _Elephant's Child_ without the eleven who died. Maybe that's
why. Maybe we have to be preserved to carry this monster wherever he
wants to go."

"Logical," said Jerry. "He'll have to be pretty persuasive, though. I
hope he knows that."

Sparks said, "The radio's working. I had an answer from the _Cottabus_
that she's heading this way. _Diogenes_ hasn't replied; she must be
further off."

"Evidently he doesn't care if the radio works," said Calico.

"Or else he wants the whole armada assembled," added Daley.

"I could use a drink," blurted Kinkare. "You got anything in this place,
Sparks?"

"Gin on the shelf," said the radioman, pointing.

Kinkare picked up the bottle. "You always leave the cap off?"

"No! Somebody's been at it."

"Where is he?" asked Pink in a whisper.

"What, Captain?" Kinkare stopped the bottle halfway to his lips.

"Where the devil is the brute? We combed the place. He can't have got
through the mutiny gates. He can't have slipped past our chain. Where
the hell is he?"

"Maybe disguised as one of us," said Daley slowly. "He isn't a Martian,
but he imitated one to the last pore. Why couldn't he imitate us?"

"Well, _I'm_ me," said Kinkare, and put the bottle to his mouth. Then he
dropped it, screeching. Pinkham stared at him and saw his upper lip
turned violent, hideous scarlet. Blood began to drip to the rug. The
skin and flesh of his lip had dissolved as though sprayed with acid.

Kinkare fell to his knees, covering his face with both arms. The others
sprang to help him, Sparks reaching for the medicine chest; but Pink
snatched up the gin bottle. What the hell? Acid? Or--

From the square spout poured a gush of smoke, writhing sinuous in the
bright indirect light of the small room; it coalesced, clotted into a
body. Impossible, brain-boggling, an unreal fantasy amid the most
concrete achievements of man, the thing swelled into solidity before the
Captain's staring eyes.

He was eight feet tall, three broad; his eyes were brilliant vermilion,
his swollen head was egg-bald, and the expression on his coarse features
was at once lecherous, evil, savage and cunning. He was stark naked,
completely humanoid. And he had come out of the bottle.

A voice boomed from him like a vocalizing cannon. "I object to anyone
trying to drink me!" he roared at them.

In the reeling chaos of all his beliefs gone wild, Pinkham had one sane
thought, and yelled it as fast and short as he could. "Don't shoot! For
God's sake, don't shoot!" Then, as Calico and Jerry held their pistols
partly raised, he said urgently, "We'll only blast each other. Remember
this thing's invulnerable."

The pistols were holstered with reluctance. The five pale men--Kinkare
still thrashed in agony on the floor--gaped at the apparition, which
said, "I am Ynohp the Martian." Gargantuan laughter rocked him. "I am
your god, Earthmen. Bow down to me!"

"Damfido," said Jerry, which was evidently all he could manage to get
out of "Damned if I do."

"Drop your weapons on the floor," said the being.

Pink drew his gun; casually he sighted on the great head above him, and
risked one shot, which had all the effect of a sunbeam; then he let the
pistol fall. The others discarded theirs. The naked creature reached out
a foot and herded the weapons into a corner. "You can't hurt me with
them," he said, "but you might try suicide, and I need you. Take heart,
mortals," he said, laughing, "you may get out alive!"

Then he dwindled and his lines blurred into ephemera and he slid out
through the door, which was open perhaps an inch.




CHAPTER VII


"But by all that's holy," said Daley (it was an hour later, and the
eight were gathered in the control room, Kinkare now bandaged and
relieved of pain, but unable to speak), "if he's a brain-picker, and got
his lingo out of our minds, who did he get 'take heart mortals' from?"
The lieutenant glanced at Pinkham. "It may seem little, but it's
minutiae that will give us clues to his nature, and therefore how to
fight him. Take heart, mortals, after all. Who talks like that?"

"You're right," said Pink wearily. "It's little things we've got to look
for. Like, evidently, gin bottles."

"Item," said Jerry, who was eating a sandwich. "He's composed of
something alien to any life we know. Gas? I doubt it. Atomic shock would
disseminate gas. Are his molecules loose and do they edge aside for
obstacles, compress together when he wants to shrink, and so on?
Possible. But anyhow, he's different--and so far as we know,
invulnerable."

"How did he gimmick the guns?" asked Calico, a note of desperation in
his voice. "We picked them up as soon as he'd gone, and they wouldn't
fire."

"Same way he gimmicked the intercom, the life-scanner, the space drive.
Known hereafter as Unknown Method One."

"Another item," went on Jerry. "He talks English without using a
lingoalter. Thus, probably, he's telepathic. 'Take heart mortals' he
might have grubbed out of somebody's subconscious."

"It adds up to this," said Pink. "We're helpless against him. Granting
this, I say let's go get him."

It made no sense, it was the gesture of fools in love with death or of
madmen battling their own futility; but every officer there shouted,
"Right!" Except for Joe Silver.

"I say, sit tight and wait," he said. "Something will happen. There's no
use committing suicide."

"If he wants us alive, and we can't fight him, I think we're better off
dead," said Jerry through his teeth.

"Hell. Where there's life there's hope."

"I suppose you're right," said Pink slowly. His muscles ached, his hands
grasped ceaselessly at the air; he was a man of action, his desire for
combat throttled by incapability. "Twenty-some hours before the other
ships get here. If our deductions are on the beam, he won't do anything
till then. He wants the whole armada."

Then, with a snarl of static, the intercom came to life.

At first they heard a jumble of voices. "What's wrong?" "Nothing
works...." "Are all the officers dead?" It was the crew, beyond the
barriers of the mutiny gates, evidently trying to get into
communication. Over and over one voice said, "Hello, Captain Pinkham.
Come in, Captain Pinkham."

Pink took two strides and flipped the switch of the visiograph. Tuning
it first to one crew station and then another, he told them succinctly
what bad happened. "Don't panic, for God's sake. The mutiny gates are
for your protection. If they work, you may be able to do something
later, regardless of what happens to us."

       *       *       *       *       *

Their somber faces looked out of the screen at him. "Let us in,
Captain," pleaded one big repairman. "We'll mob the critter."

"No use, Jackson. Stand by." He turned the dial of the visiograph into
the officers' section, scanned one room after another. No alien being
appeared. "I wonder if he's in here with us?" said Pink half-aloud.

Jerry came to him. "I have an idea," he said quietly. Then he whispered
at length into Pinkham's ear.

"It won't work. He knows what he's doing."

"How do we know that? If he needs us, he's ignorant of spaceships. Look
at the intercom--he turned it off, by some means, then turned it on when
he found out what it was. The space drive must have been easy to guess
at; likewise the life-scanner. But the intercom's a lot of complex
machinery that only adds up to a television-telephone communication
system. However he snarls the stuff, it's instantaneous and simple for
him to do. I think he just took a crack at everything that looked
important. Now he's experimenting, learning the ship, finding out what
he threw out of joint. Obviously he doesn't give a damn if we talk to
the crew!"

"You could be right."

"So if I do what I want to, it'll confuse hell out of him. It may give
us an advantage. And we'll certainly learn something."

"It's worth a try." Pink looked at Jerry, his closest friend. "I'll
send Silver to do it," he said.

Jerry shook his lean head. "This is my baby, Pink." Then he opened the
door and went out, closing it behind him.

Pinkham said levelly, "Daley, come here." He whispered the plan into his
lieutenant's ear. Daley said admiringly, "Good deal. And I think that's
sense--he can't know much about the ship. I'll bet he was hiding in that
bottle, casing Sparks's equipment and learning how to operate it. The
quick look he got at the rest of us on our jobs before he started
playing hob must have given him the barest, scantiest idea of things. So
Jerry's notion could work."

"Or it could blow up," said Pink dismally. "Go tell the others. Whisper
it, in case our guest is in here." He struggled briefly with his deepest
feelings. "Don't tell Circe. We can't be sure of her yet."

"Roger." Daley left him alone at the intercom. Pinkham set the dial to
show the large room toward which Jerry was making his way....

Somewhere beyond their ken, the incredible beast from the void made
another decision, or tried another experiment; and the life-scanner
flickered into working order again. Joe Silver saw it first. Its screen
blinked, then its alarm buttons glowed vividly. Without the ship, at a
vast distance but approaching rapidly, were an untold number of organic
entities, life-sources that reacted upon the scanner like approaching
aircraft on a radar set. They could be spaceships, slugjet suits, or
anything that contained the intangible thing called life. And the sister
ships of the _Elephant's Child_ were still too far away to register.

"Great Jupiter!" bellowed Joe Silver, pointing. "What now?"




CHAPTER VIII


O. O. Jerry Jones crept along the last ramp. Why the devil was he
skulking like this? Habit, he grinned ruefully to himself; the habit of
primitive man who crouched and slunk in the presence of danger, no
matter what kind.

And the old preservation instinct was also giving him all sorts of
reasons to knock this silly business off, and go back to the protection,
however illusory, of the control room. For instance, said the sly
instinct, if this alien is telepathic, as you so neatly proved to
yourself, then doesn't he know all that you and your pals know about a
spaceship?

Shut up, Jerry told himself. I was wrong. He can't be telepathic, or he
wouldn't bother to keep us alive after he's combed our brains.

"Couldn't he have some physical use for you all?" said the instinct.

Get thee behind me, Satan, he growled in his mind.

He opened the door of the room he was seeking.

Where to start? One wall was banked with books; never mind them. Another
wall was covered with strange-looking projections, tubes and spouts and
wheels and levers, behind a long table of plastikoid. There? Good
enough.

He had a momentary pang as he picked up a spanner from the rack of tools
by the door....

Then he was across the room and smashing wildly at levers, spouts, wall
tanks, faucets; beating metal into scrap, crushing shining aluminum to
scarred uselessness; he did not rest his arm until the whole wall was a
ruin of beaten metal and broken glass. Then he turned his attention to
the third wall.

Here was a giant turntable, rack on rack of shellacked alloy discs,
mysterious-appearing charts and cabalistic signs. These he wrecked as
methodically and ruthlessly as he had the first, but now there were
tears glistening in his eyes. He ended the destruction with a moan of
sorrow.

He paused to snap on the intercom. Pink's worry-lined face appeared.
"How'm I doing?" Jerry asked his captain.

"Great so far. Calico is crying like a child."

"I have news for you," Jerry said. "So am I." Then he turned to the last
wall. Before it spread a long array of mechanical devices: large boxes
on spindly legs, with glassed tops and brilliant colors splashed across
their surfaces; taller, narrower cases with crooked levers and
viewplates on which were small designs and words. There was a kind of
double cage with tiny cubes therein. There were great wheels with many
numbers. Almost all were attached to the wall by electric cords, though
some were entirely mechanical and others ran on self-generated power.
Jerry began at one end and passed down the line, shattering glass and
snapping wooden legs with his spanner.

He had almost finished when the door burst open and the tall humanoid
form of the stranger appeared. A blast of rage almost lifted Jerry off
his feet. The being came at him, its motion a flowing tigerish pounce.
The spanner was twitched from his hand flung across the room. He backed
against the wall, bloating with fear in spite of himself. The creature
swelled above him.

"Whoreson knave!" it bawled angrily. "What are you doing?"

"Making d-d-damn sure you don't take the ship anywhere," said Jerry,
croaking a little. "Now t-try and run it!"

He was suddenly lifted off his feet and dangled helplessly a yard off
the floor. "Fix them," snarled the alien thing into his face. He had
time to realize that its grip was extremely powerful, whatever its
molecules and atoms might be made of. "Reconstruct them, or you die."

"Don't be an idiot," Jerry told it, making up his mind that he was as
good as dead and might as well go out like a man. "There isn't a single
spare part aboard for any of these devices." He managed a sick grin. "If
you're so smart, you _know_ I'm telling the truth."

Pinkham called from the screen of the intercom. "That's true,
whatever-you-are. Those things are useless to you now."

The alien took Jerry by the chest, wrapping one hand around his back to
do it; slowly it exerted pressure, and Jerry realized that it must have
elongated the hand enormously to encompass him so. He also knew that his
rib cage would shortly collapse. He shrieked.

Then Circe, the girl from the asteroid, was gazing from the screen,
horrified. "No!" she screamed at the being. "You can't kill him for only
wrecking the--"

"Shut up!" squealed Jerry.

"The recreation room!" she finished.

Abruptly he was dropped to the floor, where he lay gasping, massaging
his bruised sides. The thing above him said, "Recreation room?"

"Sure. The soda fountain, the phonograph, and the pinball machines and
games."

Then Pinkham had encircled her throat with one arm, clamped his other
hand on her mouth, and dragged her back. But the damage was done.

The alien gave another of those mirthless peals of bull's laughter.
"Clever," he said. "Oh, clever little man." Then he plucked Jerry off
the floor once more.

_I'm going to die now...._

The brute set him on his feet, twisted him toward the door, and gave him
a brisk, forceful pat on the backside that sent him staggering. He
gained his balance and ran into the corridor. It was more humiliating
than had he been slain.




CHAPTER IX


"It didn't work, but it taught us a few things."

"You're right. It taught us that this bitch can't be trusted. Either
she's in league with _it_, a sister or brother of it, or else she's so
stupid that she's a menace to our survival."

"Oh, you blithering jackass!" said Circe indignantly to her fellow
organicus officer. "How could I guess what your plan was? Nobody told
me. All I knew was that you were going to be murdered for doing a
perfectly harmless--"

"She's right," said Joe Silver. "We ought to have told her."

"Shut up," said Pinkham savagely. "Any more of that and I'll figure
she's corrupted you or addled your brains, and I'll toss you into the
brig, Silver."

"You try it you pigsqueak," shouted Silver, who measured half an inch
over Pink's six-foot-three. "Captain or not, this is a grade A emergency
and we're all needed. I'll pull the Mars Convention on you if you try to
shut me up."

"He's right," said Daley to the captain. "Mars Convention says that in a
grade A emergency any officer above Second Watch is equal to the captain
or commander, Pink." Then he turned to Silver, grinned, and lashing out
with a hand the size of a spaniel, caught his under-lieutenant on the
ear. It knocked Silver sprawling. "That's for slanging at your
superiors," he said quietly. "And the Mars Convention says I can do
_that_."

Silver got up and blinked. He seemed dazed and for the first time in his
space life, uncertain of himself. He looked at the others and recognized
himself as a minority here. "Okay," he said, "okay, I'm outvoted. But I
say the girl is only suspect, by no means convicted of anything but
ignorance of the plan."

Kinkare, unable to speak through his bandaged mouth, nodded strongly.
Circe glared defiance at Pinkham. "Next time, for God's sake tell me
what you have in mind," she said. "Not that I'd let you sacrifice poor
Jerry, anyway."

"Women," said Jerry. "Women on a ship. Jonahs. Sentimental imbeciles."

"I'll knock your teeth down your scrawny throat," began Joe Silver, and
"Quiet!" roared Pinkham. "We're quarreling like kids. What's to be done
now!"

"I was saying it taught us a few things," said Daley. "Let's figure them
out. The thing's evidently not telepathic. It can't run a spaceship, or
it wouldn't have been so worked up over the ruin of the soda fountain,
which must have looked pretty vital to its inexperienced eyes. It's
definitely tangible, for it picked Jerry up."

"It also murdered eleven men," said Pink. "That's tangible enough too."

"It's damned intelligent, for it must have spotted Jerry on the
intercom, which means it was working it. It also speaks a very funny
breed of English. 'Whoreson knave,' for example. Nobody here ever called
anyone that."

"Whoreson knave is Shakespearean," said Jerry.

"And, to finish what I've deduced, the monster is as strong as a couple
of men, at least." He grinned at Jerry. "Not that you needed me to
deduce that."

Randy Kinkare was staring at the life-scanner screen. Now he beat a
tattoo on the arm of his chair, pointed so that they all looked. The
flecks of light that indicated organic life had thronged in toward the
ship; not so numerous as the stars, they were still too many to count.
One object on the screen was large now, large enough to be identified.
It approached the ship at a slow but steady rate, and they gasped as
they saw it was another of the human-like figures.

"His brothers," said Pinkham. "That must be their natural form, then."

It grew and grew. It seemed it must now be touching the scanner's
outside cell; but no, it grew even greater. At last it could not be seen
in its entirety, then only its face showed. It was a hideous face,
twisted with sardonic malice. The face grew. When it stopped, only one
enormous eye filled the screen.

Jerry cleared his throat. "Do you know what that means?" he asked. "It
means that, at a conservative estimate, the critter is--"

"Go on," said Daley impatiently, when Jerry's silence had lengthened
intolerably.

"It must be at least one thousand feet tall," said the O. O.

There was a long, unbroken stillness, a hush of horror and disbelief in
the control room.

Finally Circe said slowly, "I think I'm going to faint."

And she did.




CHAPTER X


The long-unused armaments room was half the width of the ship away. They
went toward it silently, seven men and a girl, praying that their
visitor would not meet them or spot their furtive advance on the
intercom. They slunk into the gunroom and Pink, coming last, ran the
heavy emergency bolt across the door behind him.

The armaments officer was dead, of course. Pink said quietly, "Who knows
the principles of these weapons?" Daley and Joe Silver raised their
hands. "Activate the viewers, then."

Two walls darkened and became the silver-flecked night of space; it was
as if they had become suddenly transparent. Half a dozen of the
void-giants showed near the _Elephant's Child_, hovering or slowly
drifting around the bow of the ship.

"Now," said the captain, "if only our friend in the bottle has left us
our guns--train 'em on those monstrosities and fire every forward
battery simultaneously."

The lieutenants, seated in foam-chairs behind the double banks of the
gun controls, manipulated instruments that were very like the sights on
common atom-pistols. Thin blue lines moved across the reflected picture
of the space beyond the ship's nose, steadied and centered on the
nearest giants. Silver glanced at Daley, who said, "Count o' three,
Joe."

Every man leaned forward, scowling at the screens. The nearest
space-soarer squinted full in their faces, as though he could actually
see them as they were scanning him. Coincidence, but--Pink shuddered.

"One," said Daley. "Two."

The _Elephant's Child_ rocked wildly up and back as thirty platinum
guns, the heaviest type in the known universe, fired their
hell-projectiles--great shells whose inconceivable destructive power was
released by the splitting of the curium atom. In flight, the ship would
have absorbed the tremendous recoil automatically; stationary as she
was, it bucked her over like a blown leaf.

The shells, set to explode at the very closest range that safety
permitted, flashed upon the twin screens like bursting suns. Human eyes
looking directly at such a bombardment would have crisped in their
sockets; even on the screens their glare was too bright for comfort.

The men blinked, peered sharply for signs of the effect on the giants.

Pink felt disappointment, so biting and gut-curdling that he nearly
vomited. For at first the shells seemed to have had little effect except
to hurl the giants back a mile or so from the ship. Then, as they slowly
surged forward toward it again, he saw that they had not escaped whole.

One lacked an arm; another had, half his head blown away; a third
drifted in without the lower half of his torso. The expressions of their
bronze-yellow faces were not of pain, however, but only of rage.

"Hey!" bellowed Calico. "We nicked 'em up, anyway!"

"Look again," said Daley morosely, standing from his foam-chair. "Look
at the head of the far left skunk."

He who had lost half his cranium was slowly regenerating it, the brow
and cheek pressing outward to form new firm outlines, a missing eye
gradually emerging from the bloodless tatters of the old socket. Pink
said, "Well." He took a deep breath. "Well, that's that. Let's all get
out and plink at them with bean-shooters. It'll do as much harm." All
the giants were reconstituting their lost parts.

Now one monster, floating right up to the ship, wrapped his
five-hundred-feet-long arms around it and gave it a shake. It was as if
a man had rattled a box full of beetles. The officers of the _Elephant's
Child_, who had ridden through the bucking of the tremendous explosion,
were unprepared for this movement, for they had risen from their deep
seats. They sprawled across the room, smashing up against the wall with
bone-jarring thumps. Pinkham found himself entangled with Circe Smith in
a pretzel of arms and legs that would under other circumstances have
been ridiculous but pleasurable. Fearing for her safety, he grasped her
around the waist; she yielded to him a moment, then struggled back and
stood up. Was her face flushed with indignation, fright, or--? He got to
his own feet. The giant had released the ship.

"We are chastened," murmured Jerry, feeling a bruised shin.

"And now what?" asked Joe Silver. "Ordinary weapons are as much use to
us as spitballs." He sat down. "Let's figure out what else to try.
Somewhere there's an answer."

They all sat down, Pink said, "Remember Wolf 864?"

"Sure," said Daley, who had been on that expedition with Pinkham when
they were young cubs out of jetschool. "Friendly natives, kind of
vegetable-animal life, and we murdered half of them unintentionally. We
had to get out and never go back."

"How?" asked Circe. "How did you kill them?"

"Germs. The common ordinary non-toxic germs we carry in our systems all
the time. It was a massacre--and of a queer, sweet kind of beast. They
had no tolerance for our microbes."

"I volunteer to find the alien and breathe in his face," said Jerry.
"Somebody hand me an onion," he added.

The conversation went on. It grew aimless to Pink, a bunch of boys
whistling by a graveyard, eight prisoners speculating on their escape
when they had no real knowledge of their jailer. He fiddled with the
intercom, saw that the crew had gathered by the mutiny gates and were
waiting tensely, puny weapons in their hands. He spoke a few words of
encouragement to them. 57 men--whom he hated to see die. Somehow he had
to save them.

It was about half an hour afterwards that he first discovered he was
breathing too shallowly.




CHAPTER XI


"What is it?" asked Circe. Her lovely face was a trifle pallid. "I feel
odd--and you all look pale."

Then it struck Pink. None of the others, even Daley, had recognized what
was happening. He did not dare waste a second in telling them. He tore
the door open and leaped into the corridor.

Deliberately he tried to draw as much oxygen into his lungs as he could.
It was growing rarer every instant; but never mind trying to conserve
it--the life of everyone aboard depended on his reaching the
atmospheria. For the air in the spaceship was rapidly degenerating,
becoming unbreathable as what remained of the good stuff was inhaled and
thrown off as useless gases....

Either the atmospheric system had gone on the blink by itself, he
thought, which was a hell of a long shot and too much of a coincidence,
or else the alien, experimenting, had turned it off by accident.

Maybe the brute didn't need oxygen. Of course he didn't! His brothers
outside sure didn't have any. Then, if he were independent of it, but
could stand living in it, the probabilities were that he didn't breathe
at all; that his metabolism was geared to ignore the elements in which
he lived.

Just possibly he was taking this way to kill them off in a particularly
fiendish fashion.

Silently Pink cursed the architect who had designed the _Elephant's
Child_ with the armaments room in the bow and the atmospheria back near
the crew's sector, a thousand feet of passageways off. Every door he
flung open took another bit of strength from his aching limbs. As he
passed a mirror, he had a glimpse of his face. His face was flushed now,
the grim-set lips were bluish, his eyes seemed to bulge from his head.

He began breathing through his mouth. It may have been imagination, but
he thought the air had a foul taste, like a sea full of putrid fish.

Pink fell to his knees. Abruptly his strength had waned to almost
nothing. He was horrified to realize how swiftly the air was going bad.
He had to get to the system! He struggled up, staggered forward like a
drunk. His heart, pounding wildly a moment before, now seemed to be
slowing, weakening.

He found himself singing....

    "_Blast off at two, jet down at three
    On the dead dry dusty sphere
    What sort of a life is this for me,
    A veteran rocketeer?_"

Great God, was he crazy? Singing, shouting the words to that old song
that Circe had brought back to his mind. Using up what amounted to his
last drops of energy and air. God, God, help me, he thought wildly; make
me shut up. But the maddened outer part of his brain kept him singing.

    "_I, who have seen the flame-dark seas,
    Canals like great raw scars,
    And the claret lakes and the crimson trees
    In the rich red soil of Mars!_"

Then he fell, and this time he could not get up.

He would lie here and die, horribly, gasping for breath where there was
nothing to breathe but death. The mind that had made him sing, that had
thought of Circe longingly and of what he must do to save her and all
his friends, that blacked out, fell into a pit of ebony walls and ink at
the bottom, blackness and nothing left anywhere....

       *       *       *       *       *

Somewhere deep in his skull, some unknown cranny blazed with the light
of knowledge. He had only a few yards to go. He had to make it. This
knowledge crept out and through his body, raised cold swollen hands and
made them grasp at a wall, forced the feet of this dead man to scrabble
for purchase on the floor of the passage. Pinkham knew that he was
moving, but it was as if he were sitting on a distant planet and knowing
it; there was no realization that this was he, Captain Pinkham, clawing
upward and shoving himself on. He looked at himself curiously, rather
proud and a little contemptuous. What a fool, what a damn fool, he
thought.

Here was a door. The half-blind thing that was Pink groped for the
handle, recognizing dimly that if this were not the atmospheria, then it
was all over.

He opened the door and fell at full length on the carpet. Instinct
rolled him over and hauled him to his knees, and he said admiringly and
far away on that planet of death, By God, this is a man! Through a red
haze he saw that he was in the first of the two small rooms that made
up the atmospheria. He lunged forward, falling, jerked convulsively
upward, plunged down a mile and smashed his face into the carpet, felt
pain that for a moment brought him out of his stupor. He was making for
the master switch that controlled the nitrogen-oxygen-ozone-etcetra that
poured continuously through the great ship when all was well. From a
great distance he could see that the switch was shoved up; only by
breaking a steel band of superb tensility could the alien creature have
pushed that switch up, for Pink carried the key to the band on his
master ring, hanging at his belt. It looked like viciousness, either of
knowledge that this was the humans' finish, or of ignorance flaring into
anger. What a _beast_....

He gathered himself like a mortally wounded lion. He launched his
perishing frame at the switch, hands clawed to drag it down to the
normal position.

He could not feel whether he even touched the wall, for his senses were
obliterated. He lay on his face and knew that he would not get up again.

Idly, he wondered whether he had managed to reach the switch.

Then the final flame of intelligence winked out, and it was night and
unrelieved blackness, and he fell asleep.




CHAPTER XII


Jerry blinked. He opened his eyes and blinked again.

Had Pink made it to the atmospheria?

He must have, for the air was sweet and normal once more. So either Pink
or Joe Silver had saved them. The others had all dropped along the way;
he had passed Daley's motionless form some yards back there--now he
looked, and saw the senior lieutenant sitting up against the wall.

Jerry rubbed his forehead gingerly. What a headache!

By the time he managed to stand, shakily, Joe Silver had appeared in
front of him. Before Jerry could ask questions, the big man said
hoarsely, "Must have been the captain. _I_ passed out before I made the
door." He shook his own head, which evidently ached too. "The blasted
door is now locked. I can't get in."

The three of them went toward the atmospheria, Calico and Sparks
following slowly. Before they reached it, the door opened and the alien
thing emerged, stooping to clear the lintel. In its tree-thick arms lay
Pinkham, apparently lifeless, his head dangling.

"Aside, mortals," the beast mouthed at them, and added, grotesquely,
"goddammit!" They dropped back, it passed them and turned a corner and
vanished. "Wait," said Daley urgently, "don't follow it yet." He
switched on the passage intercom screen. "We'll spy on it with this. If
Pink's alive, we mustn't anger the brute."

Tense, they watched the image of the stranger as it prowled through the
ship, carrying their chief. It passed Randy Kinkare, and they saw him
shrink away, a noise of terror gurgling in his gullet. The lipless
Kinkare had reason to be afraid.

The giant took Pinkham into his own quarters and laid him on a
foam-couch. Then it sat down in an angle of the wall, and its gruesomely
human-like body swelled until it occupied much of the free space in the
cabin.

"To scare him if he wakes," breathed Bill Calico.

"Isn't it frightful enough?" asked Jerry. "I have an idea: if the
Rabelaisian types outside are at their normal size, which seems logical,
then this one may be uncomfortable, having to go around all compressed
to eight feet."

"Could be ... let's advance," said Daley. "We'll wait just outside
Pink's door. Then if it tries anything--"

"Yeah?"

"We'll make a protest," finished Daley. "Somehow, we'll make a strong
protest."

They left the screen, a few seconds before Captain Pinkham groaned and
opened his eyes.

The alien regarded him with its habitual expression of overpowering
slyness. "Why did you nearly die?" it asked. "Was it something I did?"

When Pink could trust himself to speak without gibbering--it was
horrifying to see half his room filled by this bronze-yellow balloon of
evidently solid flesh--he said, "Naturally it was something you did, you
big ape. You turned off our air."

"Air?" It compressed its lips. "Ah, I remember air. A substance needed
on Earth for life. We never understood it."

"Don't you breathe?" asked Pink. "Don't you take any element into your
system and mix it with your blood and then--oh, you haven't any blood."
He paused. "But don't you need _any_ outside element to sustain life?"

"No. Nor do we eat."

"But you are organic life?"

"Of course. A life which you cannot understand, I see. A life impervious
to anything beyond it, indestructible and eternal."

_I think you're lying_, said Pink to himself. Nothing in the universe is
indestructible ... or at any rate, unalterable. Everything has its
Achilles heel, even the atom.

       *       *       *       *       *

The monster spoke, half to itself. "That, the locked switch was the air,
then. I thought it was the air-lock." It laughed. Pink thought it had a
pretty primitive sense of humor. "Not the air-lock, but the air."

"You wanted to let your friends into the ship," accused Pink. The beast
nodded. "Didn't you know that opening the air-locks without sealing off
their compression rooms would kill all the humans aboard?"

"No," it said. "I want you alive. Some of you. To teach us the working
of this rocket."

"Spaceship," corrected Pink without thinking. Then, "Why do you want the
ship?"

Its eyes glowed fire at him. "To return to Earth," it hissed. "To return
to our own planet!"

"_Your_ planet!"

"As much as yours, mortal." It leaned forward, obscuring practically all
the room for him. "Show me how to open the air-locks," it said.

"In a swine's eye."

"With safety to yourself, naturally," it said impatiently, "Come, show
me."

"Find the machinery yourself. Experiment. Knock us all off. You'll be
stuck out here with a ship you can't operate."

It plucked him off the foam-couch and hurled him against the wall,
jarring him in every bone. "Show me how," it roared. "Thou zed, thou
cream-faced loon--" Shakespeare? wondered Pink--"show me the controls!"

Pink dived behind a stationary chair. He drew his useless pistol and
threw it at the being's face; it rebounded to the floor. He snatched up
a vase of ever-blooming Jovian lilies, sent them after the gun. The
monster reached for him, snarling. He leaped over its hand, hurdling it
as if he were a boy crossing a fence. On the far wall were many weapons.

When he made Captain, and was given the _Elephant's Child_ as his
flagship, he had transferred all his belongings to it, so that nowhere
in the galaxies would he ever feel at home save here. Among his
keepsakes was the collection of antique weaponry handed down to him by
his father, whose grandfather had bought them in the long ago from many
museums. Gradually he had added to the collection, souvenirs of the
planets he had explored. They were bracketed on the wall. Zulu war clubs
and Kentucky muskets. Martian spear-guns and antiquated jet-pistols; a
Derringer, a Colt .44, a blowpipe from an unknown Pacific island.

The alien giant was too swollen to turn swiftly. Pink reached the wall
display. He tore down an assegai, whirled and thrust it at the
monstrous, contorted face, searching for the eyes.

He was a mouse, bedeviling a cat with a broom straw. The thing batted
his spear aside, brushed him with its fingers in a powerful swat,
smashed him against his desk. A corner caught him, and he felt a rib
snap. The pain enraged him.

       *       *       *       *       *

In that desk he kept his other collection, ammunition for those weapons:
it was his boast that he had at least six rounds for every
projectile-thrower there. Some of it had been painstakingly fashioned in
modern times from the old formulae, some miraculously preserved through
the centuries. On strange planets he and Jerry used to have target
practice with the ancient toys.

Now the agony and the fear forced him into a gesture. He would die in
this room, for certainly he'd never tell the giant where to find the
air-lock switches; he had to go down fighting, and if to fight this
impervious lout was the most futile of gestures, at least he would make
it a glorious one!

Fumbling, he tore open a drawer and clutched a box out of it. This was
the ammunition for the Colt revolver. Gripping it in his left hand, he
jumped aside as the beast put out a hand for him. He fled across the
room, his ears cringing from the titanic yells of fury behind him. Now
he had to get the Colt .44 from the wall.

It took him three horrible minutes of dodging and bounding to reach the
weapons again. He snatched at the revolver, missed, made another
desperate grab as he dropped to the rug; the second time he had it. He
crawled under a chest which stood twenty inches off the floor. Luckily
the alien was trying to catch him, not slay him, for it could long since
have smeared him into jelly with a piece of furniture for a bludgeon.

Feverishly he loaded the chambers of the Colt. For a moment his
scattered wits could not recollect just how to operate this special
weapon. Then he remembered.

The fingers of the monster, sausage-sized and disgusting in their parody
of humanity, came groping beneath the chest. Pinkham wormed back and
came up behind it, staring into the red eyes.

With a concentration of power that he had not known he could summon, he
shot out from behind the chest and vaulted onto the top of his enormous
desk.

The alien, lips curling, straightened till its head brushed the ceiling.
It reached out for him.

In the last split second, Pink had a vision of himself, and instead of a
glorious gesture, it seemed to him suddenly that he was making an awful
ass of himself. Like a man before a firing squad thumbing his nose....

Nevertheless, he aimed the Colt full into the gargantuan face before
him, and pulled the trigger.




CHAPTER XIII


The dawn-man, a thing like a wet rat, bared its teeth at the
dinosaur.... The Cro-Magnon faced a horde of hulking Neanderthals with a
grin.... The Crusader stood with a broken sword and brandished the hilt
at the charging Saracens.... The Apache drew his knife to fight a
double-troop armed with carbines.... The American flung his empty M-1 in
the faces of forty Japanese ... _toujours le beau geste_. Captain
Pinkham, standing in his cabin aboard the spaceship _Elephant's Child_
adrift in Star System Ninety, leaned forward and pulled the trigger to
the two-century-old, out-moded, laughable popgun of a Colt .44 firing
once and twice and again and again into the face of the bronze-yellow
space-dwelling giant.

The being loomed over him, and a scream like the death-wail of a meteor
lanced into his eardrums and made him gasp with anguish. He pumped the
last slug into the enemy and launched himself side-long, without much
hope of landing anywhere but in a bushel-sized palm. He was actually
surprised when he found himself on the rug. He scrambled for cover, but
before he reached it, it dawned on him that he might not need it.

The alien had sunk to its knees, was making a convulsive effort to rise
but obviously lacked the strength! Somehow, and God alone knew how,
Pinkham had wounded the beast!

He drew back to the wall, watching. The agony of the big humanoid was
doubling it over and throwing it upright as though a volcano were
erupting in its belly. It flung out an arm, struck a foam-chair, which
shattered explosively. Pink put more feet between them. The convulsions
were like those of a harpooned whale. Yet the creature did not seem able
to move from its knees. Finally, perhaps a minute after the first
throes, it collapsed all at once, a crumpled titan. Pink cautiously
opened the door, just as Daley was reaching for the handle.

"What in hell did you _do_?" shouted the lieutenant.

"Shot him with a revolving-chamber pistol of the mid-19th Century," said
Pink. His rib was hurting and his flesh felt bruised all over. He
grinned. "Figure that one, boy. Atomic disintegrator doesn't work,
antique powder-using firearm does. I'm too beat to know why."

"It's crazy," said Joe Silver flatly. They all stood around the alien,
which was sprawled on its back. The red eyes gleamed, but no muscle
moved in the great body. They looked for signs of the wounds, for holes
or dissolving matter, for anything different; there was nothing. "What
if--" began Silver.

"This can wait." Pink took a deep breath, which hurt, and cleared his
throat. "There's plenty to be done. Jerry, check your scanner and
detectors for possible damage. Sparks, get on the radio to _Cottabus_
and _Diogenes_; tell 'em everything, and warn them to come in
cautiously. Kinkare, Daley, see what you can do with the space drive."

He walked to the chest and picked up the box of Colt cartridges. He
loaded the weapon again. "This works--and for now I'm not asking why.
I'll stay with this scum of the void and try to get something out of him
that'll clear things up. Bill, you determine our position and give it to
Sparks; then start checking all the other equipment for bugs." He looked
at Joe Silver. "You collect the bodies of the dead officers and prepare
them for space burial."

"Why me?" blurted Silver.

Pink gave him a long look. "Because it's an officer's job. Because I
tell you to. And Silver--"

"Yeah?"

"I have decided that this is no longer a grade A emergency."

Joe Silver said stiffly, "Yes, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

Pink activated the intercom screen, told the crew briefly what had
happened. Then he raised the mutiny gates, giving a sigh of relief. "Get
going," he told his officers.

"What about the girl?" asked Jerry suspiciously. "She could still be one
of them."

"Leave her with me. I have six bullets in this thing and forty-eight
more after that." He looked at Circe, who was pale and weary. "Sit down,
O. O. Smith," he said gently. "I think you're all right. But you realize
we can't chance anything till we have proof."

"I understand," she said listlessly, and dropped into a foamseat,
staring at the fallen giant. The others trooped out.

With the door shut, Pink walked to the head of the creature; it was a
swollen and hideous head, but by rights it should have been even more
hideous, should have had half a dozen wounds. The yellow hide was
unmarked. Pink said, "You're alive. Can you speak?"

"Certainly." The lips barely moved. "I am but immobilized for the
moment."

"What caused it?"

The being sneered at him without answering. Pink said, "I can keep you
in this state for a long time, chum. And when we've shown our heels to
your brothers, I'm going to dump you out an air-lock and let you drift
around between the stars."

He knelt beside it. "What did you do to the space drive?"

There was a long pause. Then it evidently made up its mind. "The drive
should be in working order now. Your men will discover so when they try
it. As with the other contrivances, I merely placed a temporary stasis
on the protons of certain atoms, which rendered them futile. There
should be no damage by this time."

Echoing his words, Pink heard the first throbbing murmur of the
activated piles. He looked without conscious volition at Circe, and they
exchanged smiles of vast relief.

"You'll be popping out that air-lock sooner than I'd hoped," said Pink
to the giant. Then he was startled by a great peal of harsh laughter.

"Oh, you pigmy!" shouted the alien. "You flea-brained besotted fool!
Your ship is out of control even now, and your hours are numbered on one
hand. You've lost, and haven't the brains to see why!"

And, thought Pink, listening to the mirthless laugh while a chill sought
out his belly, the monster's words did not sound remotely like a bluff.

He knew something hidden from the captain, and even in his captivity he
felt himself master of the _Elephant's Child_.

Why? Why? Why?

Then Pink turned and looked at Circe.




CHAPTER XIV


Pink woke from a sweating nightmare. He rolled over and his bandaged
ribs creaked with a twinge. He had slept nearly a round of the clock;
the other ships must be nearing the asteroids. He got up and dressed
quickly, wondering who was watching Circe now, holding the revolver on
her, praying that if she should change form, the old-fashioned gun
would paralyze her as it had the giant.

The giant. He had to check on that devil immediately. He called his
quarters on the intercom, and Lieutenant Daley's image waved at him
reassuringly. The monstrous entity had not moved; its eyes still gleamed
with malevolence.

"Your hours are numbered on one hand," said Pinkham to himself. "How
many fingers on that mitt, I wonder?"

And even yet he did not believe the thing had been bluffing.

He ate a brisk breakfast in the mess hall, then stalked off to his own
room, trying to analyze what he now knew of the giants' nature; but
Circe's face intruded in his mind. He was in love with her. If she were
an alien, then he was in love with the remarkable illusion she had
created, of beauty and something more: of a deep integrity of soul that
shone in her eyes and touched every word she uttered. And if that _were_
an illusion, then he was a cynic and quite likely a positive misanthrope
from this day forward.

"Get a slug of coffee," he told Daley. "Then hare back and we'll have
some brandy. It looks like a busy day." Daley went out, giving him the
Colt as he left.

Sparks reported the _Cottabus_ and _Diogenes_ had joined their routes
and would be alongside within half an hour. Pink sat down and looked at
Circe, asleep on the couch. He switched his gaze after a while to the
enemy, who watched him steadily. It said, "A favor, Captain."

"No," he told it.

"Only a sip, a drop of brandy to wet these cold lips!"

"Cold lips, cold heart: old proverb." For the first time in his life,
Pinkham wanted to torture someone. "You bastard," he said grimly, "you
murdered eleven men, eleven good officers, and spoiled Kinkare's face
for him. And you want a drink of brandy."

"Rubbing alcohol, then. Only a touch on my mouth. Drop it in my eye if
you wish," said the thing pitifully.

"No--hey, wait a second. You told me your breed doesn't eat or drink.
You don't need any outside element. Why the alcohol?"

It heaved what was possibly a sigh. "I can absorb certain portions of
the carbon atoms of _al-kuhl_," it said. "It is the greatest pleasure
known to my race. And, save for the paltry drops of gin in that bottle
yesterday, I have not--let us say 'tasted'--it for some hundreds of
years!"

"_Al-kuhl?_" repeated Pinkham.

"The Arabic slips easily from my tongue after all those years," said
the thing, half to itself.

Arabic! "You weren't lying," said Pink, "when you told us you came from
Earth, then."

"I was not lying. Give me some alcohol, Captain."

"No. How do I know it won't revive you?"

"My word on it."

Pink gave the hardest and briefest bark of laughter ever heard on the
spaceways. It became silent. Finally he leaned forward to stare at it.
"Your eyes have faded," he said. "By God, I think you aren't paralyzed.
I think you're dying!"

After another silence it said, "Yes. I am dying."

"I couldn't be happier," said Pinkham viciously. "I even hope it's
painful."

"It is not. The only pain came with the passage through my molecules of
the l--" it halted abruptly.

"Ah," said Pink, hefting the Colt. "Of the lead. It had to be that, of
course; but thanks for reassuring me. Your tribe's allergic to lead in a
rather high degree."

       *       *       *       *       *

The flames leaped in its eyes. "I haven't told you anything so
valuable," it said, with a kind of weak bravado. "There are too many of
us, too few of you, and not enough lead in this whole system to conquer
us. You have found the secret, but you'll never carry it back to Earth.
My people shall go there instead, when they have sucked the methods from
your broken body."

"When will you die?" he asked it. In spite of his hatred, humanity was
rising in him. It was beaten and he was too much of a man to crow for
long.

"I hear remorse in your tone," said the alien. "For the love of God,
then, give me some alcohol."

He remembered the headless corpse of Wright. He said, "No."

Perhaps a quarter of an hour passed. It began to talk to itself in a
monotone, a sort of feverish delirium.

"I never thought of it, at least not often, for I steered my mind away
from it; but once a decade or every thirty years I would remember,
perhaps one of us would say, 'Oh, to have a flagon of palm wine,' and
then the agony of desire would wrack me until I must fight my body and
tear it proton from proton so that I hurt badly and the remembrance
would leave me. _Al-kuhl, al-kuhl!_ Why in all the universe must there
be this one combination of stupid elements which drags every fleck of
yearning from me like water wrung from a cloth? My race needs nothing,
nothing--we long for nothing--we are the only self-sufficient beings in
creation--why do we remember the _al-kuhl?_"

"Like a _keef_-smoker," said Pinkham quietly. "You don't long for
anything else." After a little he added, "And you fear nothing save
lead."

"True," said the being distractedly. "If it were not for lead and
alcohol we would be perfect gods."

"Who are you?" Pink asked, conscious that his throat was constricted
with excitement. "When did you leave Earth? Why don't I recognize you,
out of history? What are you called?"

He had tried too hard. The alien rolled its dimmed eyes at him. "I wish
I could smile now," it said through motionless lips. "Ah, if I could
only smile knowingly! You will die today with that curiosity unslaked."

He was balefully angry at that; he leaped to his feet, thrusting out the
revolver. "If I throw another slug into you, it just might hurt some
more," he roared.

"I would rather die in pain than see your questions answered. I know
well that curiosity is the worst torment to an Englishman."

"I'm not English," said Pink.

"It's all the same. I might as well have said 'human.'"

Pink recalled that he had the Colt, and so could take a few chances.
"I'll trade you. One drop of brandy for each answer."

It considered. Then, without budging, it gave the effect of a shrug.
"Why not? You'll be dead soon."

"You're so sure," said Pink.

"Look at your scanner."

There was something in the words that sent Pink racing. He was only just
in time to see the finish of all his new-born hopes.

The _Cottabus_ and _Diogenes_ were approaching at a slowing pace; the
_Elephant's Child_ had deactivated her drive to wait for them. Whether
the captains of the sister ships saw them or not, Pink could not tell;
but a number of the space giants, so reduced in size as to be mere blots
on the screen, hovered in the area.

As the ships gradually lost speed, a giant appeared atop each, growing
rapidly from eight feet to a thousand, till they straddled the great
ships like riders on Shetland ponies.

The thing on the floor chuckled. "We are much more comfortable at that
size, you see, Captain. We don't like to cramp our molecular structure
into these puny dimensions. We can get into bottles--but we prefer to
expand as you see." Then it laughed. "Yes, there is one of us on your
own flagship at this instant, where he has been waiting, compressed,
till the others caught their seats. Your ships are captured as surely
as in a net. You cannot dislodge them, as you know. You must carry them
to Earth so, or capitulate and let them inside."

There was no scrap of fear that he would carry these devils to Earth,
naturally. But for the moment, Pink could see no sure way to escape the
doom that now lay over him and all his men. They would have to remain in
this asteroid belt ... perhaps forever.




CHAPTER XV


The three spaceships lay together in the void.

In the _Elephant's Child_, 57 men, seven officers, and Circe Smith were
seated in the demolished recreation room, which was the only place
besides the mess hall with enough chairs to accommodate them all. Radio
communication with the other ships was handled over an extension set
connected to the main radio room by a triple quancord laid down with
furious energy by Sparks.

"What we need, and need fast, is this," said Pinkham. "A method by which
we can project lead, in pellets or spray or any damn form, with
accuracy, using our platinum guns. There aren't any other weapons that
will fire from within."

"As you know, we've tried a few methods. One of the gunners of the
_Cottabus_ went into an air-lock and tossed a lead ball at the giant on
the _Diogenes_, using a sling-gun. He found the range was too long; and
when the captain attempted to bring the _Cottabus_ nearer, the thing on
_Diogenes_ simply reared his ship up by shifting his weight backward. So
long as they can maneuver our ships as easily as toy boats, we can't use
that simple method.

"Then _Diogenes_ tried to smash our giant off his perch by simply
ramming him headlong. Take a look at the screen and you'll see that
_Diogenes_ has a dented nose for her pains. Five men died in that try."

"Captain," said a hydroponics engineer, "isn't it possible that, if we
keep trying to oppose these aliens, they may simply tear their way into
the ships and retaliate?"

"Quite possible. Their strength is equal to picking the _Elephant's
Child_ apart, I'm sure." He glared at the men. "Listen: I don't have to
pull punches with you. The chances of our getting rid of these giants
and making it to Earth are damned remote. There may be a chance, though,
so we have to keep trying for it.

"The most important thing we have to do is keep this life-form of the
asteroids from going to Earth. We of the armada are a terrible danger
to mankind, through no fault of ours. We're so many Typhoid Marys,
potential carriers of something worse than any disease. Even if we're
all killed, the giants might manage to learn the control of the ships,
and take them to Terra alone.

"So if we can't wipe out the enemy, our only course is to destroy
ourselves and our ships. Every officer in the armada has instructions to
blow up his ship if the giants should break into it. The thing is so
important that I've issued orders to do that even though the use of
lead-thrower weapons might conquer the invaders.

"If giants seize a ship and it is not destroyed within five minutes, the
other two will turn their platinum guns on it.

"Any questions?"

Jackson, who was spokesman for the crew, answered promptly, "No
questions, sir."

"Okay. Now let's have the technicians' report."

A lean, angular man rose. "I've checked all the books, Captain. There is
no way to substitute a charge of lead for the war-head in the curium
shells."

There was a stillness. "You mean we can't shoot lead at the giants
except with the few handguns in my possession," said Pink heavily.

"That's right, Captain."

"The giants are too alert to be caught that way," said Bill Calico. "I
have an idea--not much of a one, but it's a try."

"Let's have it."

Jerry waved a hand. "Please remove O. O. Smith first."

Circe flared, "I think you're just afraid I'll get your job, you
incompetent--"

"Take her out," said Pink to Joe Silver.

Calico then outlined his plan. Pinkham said at once, "I'll relay it to
the other ships. We'll try it immediately." They all nodded agreement.
Pink bent over the radio; he gave the co-captains instructions in an
ancient language which they all knew, but which he felt sure would
baffle any eavesdropping giants--an old, old tongue known as Pig Latin.

The officers and men scattered to their stations. Pink and Jerry took
Circe to the captain's quarters, where Pink took his seat for the plan's
direction, Jerry holding the Colt on Circe and the dying giant.

The space drives of the three ships were activated, and in side-by-side
formation they moved slowly forward, as Pink watched keenly for
a sign of objection from the gigantic "jockeys" atop them. None so
far ... probably they thought Pink was under the instructions of their
brother inside. Five minutes went by. Eight. Fifteen.

The largest asteroid in this part of the belt appeared ahead; it was
roughly fourteen miles in diameter. The ships dipped their noses as if
to pass well under it. They drew very close. Pink bent to his speaker
and bellowed, "Now!"

       *       *       *       *       *

As one, the auxiliary jets of each ship roared into life. _Cottabus_ and
_Diogenes_ leaped out beside their flagship, and like three hotshot
pilots buzzing an airdrome, the captains took the enormous spacecraft
hurtling for the surface of the asteroid. Passing beneath it--or,
thought Pink irrelevantly, while every nerve and sinew concentrated on
the dangerous task, perhaps they were flying over it upside down--they
brought their years of training and experience to bear on the problem of
missing that knobbed gray surface by the smallest margin possible.
_Diogenes_ actually scraped her superstructure, with a noise that made
every hair on her captain's neck stand upright; the others missed the
planetoid by no more than a foot or two. Then they were clear and again
in the void.

According to orders, they slowed at a distance of four hundred miles,
and eagerly scanned one another in their viewscreens for signs of the
giants.

Pink gave a loud shout of relief, and took a second to realize that his
co-captains had each groaned....

The riders on _Cottabus_ and _Diogenes_ had vanished, and were
undoubtedly back there by the asteroid, reconstituting their bashed-up
bodies angrily. But Pink now heard, with a sinking heart, that his giant
was still with him. It had leaned backward from the knees, lying flat on
the hull which it had gripped with legs and arms. Somehow it had grasped
Pink's plan in time to prepare itself. The asteroid had flattened its
face and chest like a plane smoothing wood, and it was now forming
itself anew, with, so they told Pink, a truly malicious scowl on its
reformed lips.

Jerry was standing with a hand on Pink's shoulder; he had forgotten
Circe in the tenseness of the bid for freedom. She came up on the other
side and put her own hand on the captain's other shoulder. He was
startled, and realizing that she could have killed or captured them
both, had she wished, chalked up another doubt in his mind against the
theory of her alienness.

"Please come outside," she said urgently. "I want to suggest something
to you."

He rose at once and followed her to the door, while Jerry frowned and
the dying giant watched him out of faded red eyes. In the hall, she
said, "You're almost licked, Captain. It's time for desperation
measures." Pink laughed, but before he could ask her what the hell they
_had_ been trying, she hurried on. "Find out where the home of these
monsters is; it must be an asteroid. Then go there. Land and get out
with your guns. They will think our friend in there brought us to
them--and you'll have the advantage of surprise. You have about a dozen
firearms that will take lead bullets. That's enough for twelve of us. I
think we'd stand a chance of success."

"And if they murder us all? What about the ship?"

She said, "Leave orders to blow it up if we fail."

Pink scratched his jaw. The girl had something, or the nucleus of
something, there. He saw other possibilities in it--it was tantamount to
suicide, but there was nothing else left to try. He said, "If we live
through this, Circe, I'll see you make lieutenant!"

"I'd rather make ... well, never mind." She turned to go into the room.
He wondered if she had had Joe Silver in mind.




CHAPTER XVI


He said to the alien, "Where's your home planetoid?"

"Why?" it asked, mockery still in its weak voice.

"I'm capitulating. I want to make a deal with your people."

It said, "Ah, the human has sense after all. Our home is the largest of
the asteroids, as you call them. The one you said at supper last night
had a diameter of 440 miles. We call it Oasis--and a poor one it is,
when we remember Earth."

Jerry said, astounded, "_What?_" His narrow face worked with surprise.

"Shut up, Jerry." Pink still had things to find out. "Can you tell your
race, telepathically, what we're doing? I don't want them to lose
patience and tear up the hull. We have a very angry gent atop us."

"It's the girl," snarled Jerry, before the alien could answer. "She's
got you fooled like a--like a--good Lord, Pink, are you so crazy about
her you can't see she's been waiting to put this idea in your head all
this time?"

"Jerry," he said through his teeth, "shut your damn mouth. I'm captain
of the _Elephant's Child_."

Jerry was aiming the Colt at him; accidentally, Pink hoped. Then the O.
O. said, "If I have to blow out your guts to save us, Pink, I will." His
tortured features writhed with pain. "Oh, hell, boy, wake up!"

"Give me one more minute, before you fly off the handle and make an ass
of yourself--and a mess of me." Pink had to have that minute. It was so
vital he couldn't save himself from the angered Jerry with the one
phrase that would explain everything. "Jerry, one lousy minute."

"Just tell me you don't mean it about giving in."

He couldn't. My God, he couldn't. There was too much of a chance that
this brute on the floor was telepathic with its own kind. "I have to do
it, Jerry," he said.

"Then I have to tie you up till you're sane," said Jerry. "First,
though, I've got to make sure about this girl." The muzzle of the gun
traveled toward Circe, steadily, remorselessly.

Pink had no alternative; the lives of all his men hung in that teetering
balance. He jerked his right hand, and the tiny gambler's gun, the
antique Derringer he had hidden up his sleeve for emergencies, slid down
into his palm. Instinctively his forefinger caught the trigger and with
sorrow and determination he shot Jerry high in the chest, below the
clavicle and a safe distance from the lung. Jerry staggered back, a look
of amazement spreading over his face; he fired the Colt wildly, putting
a slug into the floor. Then he sat down, making hurt, uncomprehending
noises. Circe took the gun from his hand.

Pink heard a babble from the intercom. He grasped that some of his
officers must have seen the occurrence. He still hadn't much more than a
minute.

"Circe," he snapped, "turn off that intercom and then lock the door." To
the giant he said, "Well, can you tell your friends?"

"I would have doubted you, had you not eliminated your objecting
officer," it told him. "Now I will say that I cannot communicate with my
race through thought transference; but if you head for Oasis, you will
be safe."

Pink breathed a little easier. He snatched down a bottle of whisky and
twisted off the cap. There was another fact he must learn. He knelt and
presented the bottle to the inert lips. "Have a slug," he said.

"You are sensible," said the being with satisfaction. "Pour it into my
mouth or my eye; I can absorb it through any orifice." Pink poured
rapidly. The liquor ran down over the yellow hide.

"No, no," gurgled the monster. "Slowly! I absorb it far more slowly than
you do--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Pink stood up. He took a drink from the bottle and handed it to Circe.
His face was radiant with success. "Toast the last slim chance, honey,"
he said, voice cracking with relief. "We just found out what we needed
to know." He retrieved the bottle after she had downed a gulp, gave it
to the dazed Jerry. "Cheer up, boy," he said. "You didn't get your pink
skin plugged for nothing. Now listen." Rapidly he outlined Circe's plot,
then the additions he had concocted. "See why I had to do it?" he asked
finally.

"Yeah. Yes, I see." Jerry blinked. "Would you spray a little sulfaheal
on this hole, Pink? It hurts.... Okay, I give in. I'm with you. It's a
mad notion, but I sure can't better it. I'm with you." He looked at
Circe, who was already busy with sulfaspray and bandages. "But can we
trust this wench, Captain? She could be a wonderful decoy for 'em."

"She's in the clear, Jerry; if we hadn't been so blasted rattled we'd
have realized it long ago. There was a test she could have passed in two
seconds that would have eliminated all this fat-headed suspicion."

"What?"

"Holy Holmendis, boy--_lead_! If she were alien, the touch of lead would
have crisped her up with pain and paralysis." Pink opened the door then,
and the first tide of officers coming to Jerry's rescue were halted at
sight of Circe tending his wound. Pink said to Jerry, and to them all,
"While I was standing in the hall, I took a cartridge out of this
Derringer, and rubbed the lead across the back of her neck. She never
winced. That vouches for her, doesn't it?"

Jerry said, "It does. Heaven forgive us for a pack of drooling
imbeciles! It does indeed."

Circe stood up. She came to Pink and stared him in the face. "So that
was it," she said quietly. "You were testing me. And I thought it was a
caress. Oh, you--" Then she hauled off and smacked Captain John Pinkham
square in the left eye.

It hurt like sin, but Pink could hardly blame her. So he apologized,
without words. He took her in his arms and kissed her soundly.

And Circe kissed him back.




CHAPTER XVII


The _Elephant's Child_ rested on the surface of the asteroid Oasis, a
waterless, airless, cold and gray ball as uninviting as any solid body
in the universe. At the entrance to Air-lock One, the officers stood in
a tight group listening to Pinkham; their spacesuits were fastened on,
only the helmets remaining to be donned; their gloves were the modified
digitmits which enabled the wearers to hold small objects and to operate
machinery or firearms.

There were seven officers, and now three crewmen in spacesuits joined
them. Jerry, whose wound was nearly healed already, thanks to the
sulfaspray, passed out guns from the captain's collection. Each man
carried a handgun, or, in two cases a long rifle. The ammunition for all
amounted to one thousand two hundred and five rounds, in the main
handgun cartridges. Pink had decided against using the Kentucky rifle,
which was difficult for a modern man to load.

At each belt hung half a dozen curious objects, shaped like bottles but
of a dull gray color and rough surface texture. These sloshed and
gurgled when the men moved.

Pink concluded his instructions on the use of the weapons and the gray
bottle-things. "Remember," he said, "keep in touch by your radio, and
don't travel more than a mile from the ship if you can help it. Try the
lure first, then when the containers are full, the guns. Be sure to keep
at least one portion of lure for emergency; don't use it all." He
grinned. "And don't drink any of the lure."

The men laughed, easing tension. Pink went on. "You'll have some trouble
adjusting to the gravity--our average weight will be six or seven
pounds, or, in Jerry's case, three or four." They chuckled again.
"Remember we don't know how they'll react, so keep your minds open and
use your own judgment in everything. Now let's go."

As he turned and activated the sliding panel that covered the first
chamber of the air-lock, and they all settled their helmets down onto
their shoulders and fastened them, an eleventh figure joined them, its
helmet already in place. Jerry, shaking his head reprovingly, handed
this one the last weapon, a small automatic from the so-called "Gangster
Age" of America. Then they went into the air-lock and the door shut
tight behind them.

In the control room, Jackson and a few others watched tensely on the
viewscreen as one by one the landing party jumped to the planetoid. He
looked at his watch. "Two hours," he said. "Oh my God, I hope they make
it!" For in precisely two hours, if they had not returned to the ship,
Jackson was to blow it to metallic dust, and all the remaining humans
with it.

Forty miles above the surface of the small world, the _Diogenes_ and the
_Cottabus_ cruised at a good rate of speed, to keep their hulls free of
hitchhiking giants while watching the progress of the expedition.

On the floor of Pinkham's quarters, the dying alien lay alone and cursed
weakly at the sly and crafty doublecross he had so stupidly fallen for.
He called upon a number of strange gods to curse these mortals; among
the names he uttered was that of a deity called Allah.

In dressing room B, a technician discovered a crewman who was sitting
against a wall rubbing his skull. "Somebody bopped me," said the man
glumly. "I'm supposed to go out there and blast giants, dammit. Who
could have swiped me so hard?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Pink took an experimental hop. It should have carried him, at Terra
gravity, about two feet. He soared over a hillock and came down gently
on a plain of rock that looked like lava; his hop had carried him some
scores of yards. He felt for an instant like a kid let loose on a
wonderful playground. Then he snapped into it and began to scan the
terrain for signs of life.

To the right was the mountain they had seen from the descending ship,
with its irregular rows of gaping holes which suggested caves and
therefore possible habitations. It wouldn't take more than five minutes
to reach them at an easy amble, or a minute at a brisk walk; about a
mile away, they seemed.

Then with a horrified start he remembered the giant who had been atop
his ship. Washington Daley had been delegated to deal with it--and Pink
had forgotten, had not even glanced back to see how his lieutenant was
making out! He whirled neglecting caution, and fell on his face. Luckily
he came down like a big bulky feather, and caught himself and bounced up
again, a rubber ball of a man on this alien world Oasis.

He was just in time to see the giant, bending forward over the front of
the ship, begin to blur and stream downward toward the tiny figure of
the human who stood below him. In a moment he resembled a cloud of
tobacco-smoke, drawn into the gray container in Daley's hand. He
vanished entirely, Daley clapped on the sealing lid, and gave a
triumphant wave to his captain. Pink blew out a breath of gratitude and
remorse; he'd have to be on his toes from now on, really vibrant with
watchfulness. Laxity in one thing could lose this weird battle.

Strung out in a straggling line of erratically progressing units, the
men of Earth headed for the caves. In a time so short as to be faintly
ridiculous, they were moving up the mountainside. The gaping holes
_were_ caves, and obviously deep ones. Pink stood at the entrance of one
for a moment, checking on the number of his men; then he waved a hand
over his head, and entered the great den. Behind him came another
figure, one whose slimness told him it was probably Jerry.

Their chest lamps lit up the interior, which was as gray, knobby, and
featureless as the outside world. Pink held his Colt .44 in his right
hand, one of the bottles in his left. The technicians of the _Elephant's
Child_ had worked like drudges over those bottles....

Every bottle of liquor aboard had been requisitioned. The liquid had
been poured into plastic containers; only a few spoonfuls had been left
in each bottle.

Then lead, melted down and beaten into sheets, was wrapped around each
bottle, forming a thin and chinkless layer over all the glass but the
lip; and the lead was painted with tough plastikoid paint, which covered
it with a film one-twentieth of an inch thick. Caps of lead were made
for the bottles. At the end of a couple of hours, they had sixty-six
bottles, glass inside, lead covered, and topped off with plastikoid
which would conceal the presence of lead from any known test short of
X-ray.

Each of the eleven men carried six of these bottles, then, actually lead
containers, but apparently plastikoid; the lead stoppers were concealed
in joerg-hide bags. If the giant who had been beaten in the spaceship
was a criterion, the enemy would not recognize the presence of lead
until it actually touched them--and then, thought Pink, with a quick
prayer, it would be too late for them.

Beaming the radio to a distance of ten feet, he said, "Hey, Jerry, want
to lay a bet on who bags the first brute?"

"Sure. Twenty bucks says I get him. And don't call me Jerry," said the
sweet, quiet, and thoroughly startling voice of organicus officer Circe
Smith.




CHAPTER XVIII


I didn't have to do it, Pink thought. I could have changed the orders
when I saw that no giants were in sight. We could have blasted the one
on top of the _Elephant's Child_ and taken off and got out of range of
'em and gone back to Earth. We were free in that instant, when Daley
caught the alien and corked it up in the lead bottle with the liquor
that drew it. We shouldn't have come out here to the caves. We should
have left Oasis to itself.

He knew that he had squelched this idea before it was born, because he
had longed for a good fight; he recognized this alien life-form as
unclean, and he'd wanted to stamp it out, or make a dent in its numbers
anyway. So he'd gone ahead with the project, and now here was Circe,
risking her life to be with him, and if anything happened to her he'd
kill himself ... well, at least he'd mop up the giants who'd drawn him
here, he'd make a pogrom, a massacre to avenge her....

She isn't dead, boy, he told himself. She's just in danger. Don't get
distracted.

"Stick close," he told her shortly. "I'll whale the pants off you when
we get back for this trick, but for now, stay close and keep your eyes
open."

Then he tuned his radio outward. "Report," he said. His men checked in.
Nothing had been sighted thus far.

So it was Captain Pinkham's luck to meet the first alien.

Rounding a turn, he saw that the cavern enlarged, became a huge grotto;
seated around its walls, staring at one another in the uncanny silence
of this airless place, were many of the giant life-forms. Only one was
near him, and this monster was first to see him; it leaped at him with
the abruptness of perfect muscular control, its feet a little off the
floor of the cavern--Pink recalled that these things could levitate
themselves in space.

There was no time to use the lure of the bottle. He threw up his old
revolver and fired point-blank, catching Circe by the arm and hurling
her to one side as he did so. The giant recoiled as at a wall, doubled
and thrashed in agony. Pink, rooted to the spot, waited to see the
effects. Would one slug of lead be enough? And evidently it was, for
suddenly the thing fell and writhed futilely on the ground, flinging its
arms wide with diminishing strength. In a moment it was helpless, its
only motion a slight heaving as its life retreated far within the
gigantic bulk. Its red eyes glowed at him malevolently in the glare of
his chest-lamp.

Strangely enough, none of the others had seen him yet, nor had any of
them moved from the sitting posture. Swiftly he unhooked four of his six
bottles and set them in a row on the rock floor. Circe returned, having
bounced like a bit of india-rubber a dozen yards before checking
herself. "You big bully," she said over the radio, and, her tuning being
for distance, Daley in another cave said "What? Who?" in a startled
tone.

Pink dragged her, five pounds of resistance on the tiny planet, and
plunked her down behind a rock. "Sit tight," he said urgently. "Keep the
gun handy. And check that you haven't spilled any alky--we'll need all
the bottles we can get." Then he turned and shone his beam full on the
traps he had set out. One of the aliens was bound to spot them soon.

When one did, it came at them with a rush, snarling soundlessly as it
sought the source of the illumination. Towering over the insignificant
bottles, it halted, shuddered, stared down--Pink held his breath--and
the incredible disintegration and flow of the body happened. The giant
entered the bottle, leaving not a trace of its thousand-foot carcass
outside. Restraining a desire to leap out and cork up that bottle, Pink
waited. The movement of this alien had caught the red eyes of others;
they advanced, some hurrying and some cautious, till two more had
scented or sensed the alcohol and poured into bottles. Pink kept his
eyes on the little containers. Beside him, Circe gazed with horrified
fascination at the coming gargantuas....

       *       *       *       *       *

A trio of them were misting now; this was the test. One empty bottle
remained. What would happen, Pink wondered; was one giant per bottle the
maximum content? The three streaked down, like smoke sucked into a
vacuum cleaner. They jetted into the bottles, and again nothing was left
outside. Pink said "Good," in a mutter, and forced himself to wait
longer. The more the merrier. How long would it take them to soak up the
alcohol? His captive had said the process was slow. How slow? How long
did he dare wait?

He caught eight more, then the next hesitated, looking around for the
source of light. Either he was capable of more resistance to the
seductive element, or the bottles were now full of churning, lapping
aliens. There were more of them approaching, but he didn't dare wait any
longer. He jumped forward, potting at the foremost.

It went down thrashing, and he shot over it into the yellow of them.
Emptying the Colt, he reloaded hastily and plugged or nicked another
half dozen. By then he was standing over the bottles. Nothing had
emerged yet. He stooped to slam on the caps.

With horrible speed two giants pounced for him; he saw them out of the
corner of his eye. Then they slammed full length to the rock, and he
knew that Circe's automatic was in action. He corked the last bottle and
slung it on his belt, put down the two remaining containers. Then he
turned and made a mighty jump away from them, dragging Circe with him.
The aliens came on.

Some of them could withstand the pull of the liquor, and some could not.
There was a phalanx of them coming, for a good third of the growth's
population had seen the disturbance by now. Any who appeared to be
passing by the bottles, he and Circe shot; those who hesitated by them
and were drawn in exchanged their liberty for their lives, because in
two minutes Pinkham had feverishly capped them into the leaden prisons.
He hooked them onto his belt and said into the mouthpiece before his
lips, "Go for the entrance, baby. I'll cover you."

"No!" she snapped back. "You are not going to sacrifice--"

"Sacrifice, nuts!" he yelled. "This is part of the plan you'd have heard
if you hadn't sneaked into the landing party at the last minute. Get
going!" He was reloading as he spoke.

She ran, almost flying down the cave-tunnel with great leaps that
covered many yards each. He fired three times at the giants who now
loomed above him; then he was running too, stretching his legs and
throwing every ounce of power and panic in his frame into the incredible
jumps. And apparently he had the advantage over the brutes, for he began
to outdistance them; their mass being greater, he was helped by the lack
of gravity.

Then a rock crumbled under his toe, he was thrown off balance, his
momentum shot him full tilt against the wall of the passage, and his
head cracked sharply against the inside of his helmet. He knew that he
was losing consciousness, and that he had fallen and was rolling
straight into the path of the raging aliens.




CHAPTER XIX


Thought came to him before feeling. Pink lay in a hazy world of shifting
ideas, of coagulating and disintegrating forms of cerebration. He was
not wholly unaware of what had happened, but his groping mind was more
concerned with piecing together certain facts and fancies, reaching
conclusions he felt were of the first importance. If his body were in
danger, it must help itself, for Pink had other fish to fry.

As he sank into thick-witted stupor, then fought up to the light of
reason, feeling his mind ebb and flow with ideas and mad conjectures, it
came to him that he knew the truth of the giants, and had not stated it
to himself before in so many words. He had deliberately shied away from
it, in fact, for it stank of fantasy, of crack-brained superstition and
imbecilic fairy tales....

Admit it, he told himself, giggling in the far reaches of his brain.
Admit it. You know about these critters, Pink.

Yes. I know about them. They are the djinn.

The djinn that Solomon ruled, conquered, and put down. The enormous
entities of Arabian Nights tales, whose habits and character and
shrewd-canny-gullible ways of thinking were all set down in the books
and marveled at by people even yet, hundreds and hundreds of years after
they had been written. Marveled, sure, but marveled only at the
imaginations that had produced them. And it wasn't imagination at all.
It was the real actual goddam solid thing.

The djinn had been at once a triumph and a sad mistake of nature. They
were the ultimate in physical perfection, needing nothing, living
perfectly independently, huge and strong and yet able to assume the
tiniest proportions when needed. Wounds were nothing, for their makeup
was such that their molecules compressed away from weapons, to ooze back
into place when danger was past. They controlled the forces of the atom,
at least to the extent of ability to freeze protons, and probably they
could do many more stunts in that line.

All their powers, being far in advance of man's, had been misunderstood
and misinterpreted in the old days. So when a djinni let his atoms flow
into the most convenient shape for getting into bottles for alcohol or
for passing an obstruction he didn't care to demolish, it seemed to men
that he turned into a cloud of smoke. Hadn't Pink used that simile to
himself?

The fact that they could levitate, probably by control of the force of
gravity, and fly through the thin upper air, by some process Pink only
dimly understood, was certainly enough to stamp them as minor gods in
Arabia and all the other countries they had infested.

Sure, they were a triumph of nature; but also a colossal failure. For
they were, despite their scientific powers, too stupid for pity, too
insensitive for compassion, and too egocentric for tolerance. Their
nature was that of the most depraved human being. Consequently they'd
been beaten. In spite of their terrific strength, they'd been beaten by
puny, unscientific, bumbling man.

How?

Well, Solomon had known about the lead. He'd sealed them in copper
bottles with stoppers of lead, and Pink would bet a buck those bottles
had been lead-lined, too. Solomon hadn't gone far enough, of course;
he'd thrown the bottles into the sea, and sometimes they'd washed up and
been opened. For bait, he must have used alcohol, too, since it was the
Achilles heel of the djinn.

Had he nailed the entire breed of djinn in his lifetime? It seemed
likely, for the legends stopped soon afterwards, didn't they? Pink
wasn't sure. Anyway, there sure as hell weren't any djinn on Earth
today.

How had they gotten out here, all the way to Star System Ninety? That
was beyond conjecture. How come the first brute he had contacted, old
Ynohp the phony Martian, spoke a kind of messed-up Shakespearian lingo?
God only knew.

Now he'd discovered them, anyway, and they wanted to go back to Earth.
If they got hold of the _Elephant's Child_, they might do it. He
couldn't let them succeed ... but then the crew was going to blow up the
ship in two hours.

Two hours!

Pinkham's mind beat wildly at the prison of lethargy and dimmed
consciousness. How long had he lain here? Where _was_ he lying? Did the
giants, the djinn, have him? And Circe?

Circe. Making the most intense and painful effort of his life, Pink
dragged his eyes open and tried to sit up. He had to find Circe.

He saw nothing, and there was a weight on him that held him flat on his
back. Either his lamp was broken, or he was blind.

Sensibly, though it cost him untold hell to be sensible, Pink lay
quietly until he felt all his faculties under control. Then he made an
abrupt and violent attempt to sit up. Whatever it was that was holding
him down rolled off. He managed to get to his knees, one hand on the
rock beneath him, and then arms were thrown around him and a body
pressed against his.

The horror of absolute blackness and the unknown predicament he was in
proved just a little too much for him. Captain Pinkham gave a loud, long
scream of fear.




CHAPTER XX


"What is it?" asked Circe, her voice wild with fright. "Pink, darling,
what is it? Are you hurt?"

It was Circe who was holding him. Sobbing with relief, he said into the
radio, "No, no, baby, I'm fine, I'm wonderful."

Her answering cry was a tiny sound of joy and affection. "I wish I could
kiss you," she said, "but there are two spacesuits in the way."

He found her hand and squeezed it hard. "I wish I could see you,
Smitty," he said, "but either I'm blind or--"

"Oh, I should have told you at once. I turned off our chest-lamps."

"But where are we?"

"Not far from where you fell." Her hand was a comfort in his, as much so
as a squad of Space Marines marching down to greet them would have been.
"You flew past me like a kicked football, Pink, and I veered off to see
if you were okay. When you fell and didn't move, the first thing I did
was snap off the lamps. About a second afterwards, the giants went past.
They have a weird kind of glow in the dark. I think they could have seen
us--certainly they don't exist blind in this ink-pool--but there's a
ridge of rock and we were pretty well hidden behind it. I dragged you
about forty feet and found this hole and we've been lying here ever
since."

"The others," he said, remembering.

"I've been in touch with Daley all the time. He and Calico ran into a
lot of trouble and Calico got a broken leg. Joe Silver took him back to
the ship. Daley and Jerry found each other and fought off a horde of
giants. Every man got all his bottles full of 'specimens' and then used
up most of his lead. Sparks--" she hesitated a moment--"Sparks is dead.
So is Randy Kinkare."

Pink said quietly into the dark, "I don't think Randy would mind that.
He didn't have much of a face left."

"Whatever that first one did to burn him, that's the weapon they used on
him and Sparks. Both of them were burnt to a...."

"Okay," he said. "Okay, okay."

"So Daley said they'd try to find us; but everyone got mixed up in the
caves, and there hasn't been a sign or sound of anyone for half an
hour."

"Half an hour?" The flesh chilled down his back. "How long have I been
out?"

"I don't know. A couple of hours."

"My Lord! The _Elephant's Child_ is to be blown up two hours from the
minute we left her!"

"Daley said Silver was going to countermand that order."

Pink groaned heavily. "He can't! Jackson had my absolute command on it,
and Jackson would see himself and Silver and the whole lot of them dead
before he'd fail to carry out a command of mine. That was important; we
calculated that two hours was more than enough to expend all the ammo,
and that if we weren't back by then, the hull would be crawling with
giants. Every bullet aboard came out with us. We couldn't take the
chance of the ship blasting off with giants on her, maybe in the form of
gnats or smoke or--no," he finished, "Silver, if he tried to change my
order, is either dead or unconscious or in the brig right now." He
lifted his left hand. "I've got to check the time," he said, and for an
instant switched on the dial of his glove watch.

It was a hundred and two minutes after landing time.

He had eighteen minutes to get back to the _Elephant's Child_.




CHAPTER XXI


He beamed his radio to its fullest extent. "Daley," he said. "Daley,
come in. Jerry. Cohan. Caleskie. Kole. Come in, anyone."

"Kole here, Captain. I'm on the plain. It was all fouled up in that
cave."

"What can you see?"

"They've got the big trap out of the ship," said the distant, tinny
voice of the crewman. "What a waste of good liquor! Beg your pardon,
Captain."

"Giants?" Pink asked.

"About a million of 'em, all headed for the trap. We should have tried
it first. Did you know Caleskie got his?"

"No, I didn't know. We had to suck them out into the open before they
could spot the trap, Kole. Is Lieutenant Daley in sight?"

"I saw him a while back, sir. He was headed out of a cave with the O. O.
But it turned out they were going the wrong way, because I--"

"Thanks, Kole. Report aboard ship. Don't get mixed up with the giants."

"They won't bother me, sir. It's like a bunch of big bees tearing after
a vat of nectar out here. They don't even see me."

"What did he mean?" asked Circe. "A trap?"

"Plastikoided lead box, twelve by twelve feet. All the alcohol in the
ship was poured into it an hour after we left, and they set it outside
as far from the ship as they could safely go. I didn't know it would
work, but it was a try. It still doesn't affect Jackson's orders. I
didn't know, I still don't know, but that some of the djinn can resist
the stuff."

"The _what_?" she asked, startled.

"Never mind. We've got about a quarter hour to get back. Where in blazes
is Daley?"

A small, weakened voice said in his ear, "I'm here, Pink. Jerry too. But
he's out cold. I don't feel so hot myself."

"Daley!" he roared. "Where are you?"

"Big cave, about size of Texas. Came across it trying to find our way
out. Lot of giants here. One of them saw us and picked us up and banged
us together. I think he must be saving us for a hearty lunch. He's
sitting ten feet off watching us."

"Your guns, boy!"

"No good. All the slugs are gone. Pink," said the weak, worried voice,
"do you know what time it is? You better hightail it for the ship."

"I'm coming after you," said Pink.

"Don't be a heroic son of a space cook, Pink!"

"Shut up and lie still." He switched his radio to close quarters.
"Honey, you make for the _Child_. I'll pick up the boys and be right
with you."

"You're crazy," she said flatly. "I wouldn't leave you if--"

He had switched on his chest lamp and drawn out a pen and paper from his
pocket kit. "I'm going to write Jackson a note countermanding the order.
Take it to him."

"You're wasting your time," she said grimly. "If you're going into the
cave, I'm going too."

"You fathead, you can save the ship by taking this note."

"You're doing it to save me. I won't. What happens to you happens to
me."

"My God the whole damn ship--"

"Doesn't matter to me if you're gone, Pink." Her voice was strange,
half-hysterical and oddly loving. "I don't know why I feel this way
about you, Pink. I've never been in love before. If I hadn't been
stranded, I'd be old enough to be your mother. You're a big cold
dedicated spaceman, but I love you. Lead the way, if you're going to
make a fool of yourself."

       *       *       *       *       *

In that moment Pink learned wisdom, for he gave up his attempt at a note
and bounded to his feet. Some well-spring of instinct had told him that
a man could never argue a woman out of anything.

"Got your automatic?"

"And a full clip left."

"Come on, baby."

They ran down the cavernous corridor, grotesque tiny fleas making
unbelievable leaps. In seconds they had entered the grotto.

Many, too many giants were still there. Some of them seemed not to have
seen anything of the hectic occurrences, others were standing in small
groups (if anything formed of thousand-foot beings could be called
small, thought Pink as he rocketed along) motioning hugely to one
another.

"Stay close," he called to Circe. She was moving as fast as he, her
light frame an asset. They ran down one side of the cavern, ignoring
giants who did not at first notice them. Pink beamed out his radio and
said, "Daley! Locate yourself." "I'm in the cavern."

"You ape," said Daley, "why'd you come? We're in front of an entrance
that's the middle one of three. Spot it?"

"I see four sets of three," said Pink, heading for the nearest as his
heart sank.

"Sorry, I can't see any more than these. Be careful, old boy." There was
a pause. "We have twelve minutes left," said the senior lieutenant
calmly.

The first of the triple entrances--had they been built, or were they
natural?--was at hand. Three gigantic djinn sat near them. The ground,
uneven as a lava flow solidified, might have concealed a score of
humans. Pink gave a high leap, surveyed the terrain as he floated down.
Nobody here. But a giant saw him.

Pink shot him in the ankle and dived like a skin-swimmer between his
legs. He had lost Circe. He pivoted, wide-eyed, and saw her beneath the
skyscraper torso of a bending giant. Their lamps were drawing attention
now. He saw her shoot the titan and fly off at a tangent, disappearing
behind others of the enemy.

Sixth sense warning prickled his neck. He whirled again to pot at a
groping hand the size of a ten-story house; the hand contracted,
bunched, groped outward and was hidden as the body fell upon it. Pink
saved himself by a frantic backward shove that jolted him into the wall.
Circe sped by and he followed, shouting into his radio. They joined
hands and aimed for the next entrances, a mile down the hall.

Four speeding djinn abruptly barred their path, express-flying down on
them.




CHAPTER XXII


"I know how a fly feels," gasped the girl. "I'll never wield another
swatter."

Pink had emptied his Colt. He tried reloading on the run, or rather, he
thought wryly, on the bounce, but it was a tricky job. And he had only
about a dozen shells left.

Circe shot another angry monster. If lead took just two seconds longer
to work on those immense systems, Pink realized, he and Circe would have
been squashed long since. They had fought down half the hall, past three
of the triple entrances, and now there was only one to check on. If
Daley and Jerry weren't there, they might as well give up; the ship
would go scattering into the void in about five minutes.

They had to watch backwards as well as before them. The giants were
nearly all in motion now, the milling of such throngs of them having
caught the vacant stares of those who had been gaping at nothing.

And suddenly there was Daley, standing before them and holding the limp
spacesuited form of Jerry Jones in his arms. "Hey, Pink," he said, "down
here."

Pinkham blasted two foemen in the hands as they grasped for him. "Like
fighting giant redwoods," said Circe indistinctly, panting. They joined
the two officers, jumping and digging in their heels to halt sharply.

"We have to make for that," said Pink, waving across the grotto at the
invisible hole which led to the plain. "Straight through these dam Alps
of aliens." He shot over Circe's head. "How you feeling?"

"Little rocky," said Daley.

"Take the Colt, then." He shoved it into the lieutenant's hand and
hoisted Jerry like a rag out of Daley's arms. "Come on," he barked. "And
don't get slapped. That's an order." He ran.

Their combined chest-lamps beamed out a couple of miles as they headed
for the home stretch. Across the light passed the giant djinn, moving to
waylay them, standing mountain-steady to intercept. Circe rocketed into
the lead and led them on a zigzag course that avoided the vast parodies
of human feet which barred the way like river dams.

They had had uncanny luck thus far. Why? Probably the giants were
sluggish from long inactivity. Too, Pink knew, it's hard to hit a small
darting object that's not more than one-one-hundred-and-sixty-sixth of
your size. And the lead slugs of their guns had turned many sure
captures into escapes.

But now the guns were empty.

"Feet," said Pink, quoting an ancient joke, "feet, do your stuff!"

Circe was amazing, dodging and pirouetting and even hurdling the gross
feet when they couldn't be side-stepped. Pink gamely followed her lead,
Jerry now slung over his shoulder. There was panting in his ears--Daley
must be having tough going. Then he recognized the deep wheezing
breaths: they were his own.

"Daley?" he gasped.

"Right behind you, Pink."

The mouth of their corridor was in sight. Then there were djinn, a row
of them standing side by side with feet firmly planted to make a
barrier. My God, he thought, this is it! Circe vanished, he did not see
where. The feet were there, and arms reaching down for him. He pitched
sideways, flipped by a questing finger; crashed on his shoulder, rolled,
still miraculously hanging onto Jerry. The brashest course was the only
one. He gathered himself and jumped onto a toe. It was as hard as the
rock. And this thing, he said irrelevantly in his mind, this massive
piece of solidity can vaporize into a gin bottle! He slid down the toe
and scuttled ratlike under the lofty legs and was in the clear. The
tunnel, itself an astoundingly high cave, appeared directly before him.

There was no time now to look for Circe and Daley, vital though their
safety was to him. He carried Jerry into the tunnel and loped with
multiyarded strides for the plain. He could not see any lamp-glare but
his own. But he could not stop. Humanity in that instant overcame all
his private desires. There were fifty-eight souls who would be blotted
out if he didn't make the _Elephant's Child_ in two minutes. Sixty-one,
if you counted Daley and Circe and Pink himself. In less than one of
those minutes he had traversed the tunnel and come out above the plain.

The ship was still there. Some distance away from it stood the big trap,
and even yet giants were speeding toward it from all points of the
compass. Pink gasped a breath and launched himself out and down the
steep hillside. He took it all in that one jump. As he was landing, a
curiously weightless man on this tiny planetoid, Jerry came to life and
writhed suddenly in his arms, upsetting his balance. Pink fell and his
left ankle shrieked with pain as it turned under him and was smashed
into the gray rock by his dropping body and Jerry's.

He sprawled full length and knew his ankle was broken or sprained. Jerry
rolled free and collapsed, sighing into his radio. Pink tried to stand
and the ankle buckled. Horrified, he looked at his glove watch.

He had seventy seconds.




CHAPTER XXIII


Pink bellowed, "Jerry!" He yelled it so loudly that his ears protested
at the helmet echoes. Jerry said groggily, "Wha?"

"Stand up!"

Jerry sat up and at once fell flat again. "Judas priest, I can't. That
you Pink?"

"We've got to make the ship," he bawled, twisting with pain.

"Make it what?"

"If you want to live, son--stand up!"

Jerry got to his knees. "I'm sick, Pink."

He had used up six seconds. He had to try it on his own. Jerry was too
far gone to function properly.

Pink stood up. His teeth were grinding together like millstones, but he
didn't stop. He knew pain and dread and rage that shook him. He faced
the ship, and stood on his good leg and bent his knee and gave a
tremendous hop.

As he fell on his face, an unknown number of yards nearer, a great alien
passed him, the mighty sole slamming the rock a few feet from his prone
body. Pink struggled upright and balanced on the right leg and made
another hop. This time he didn't fall when he lit. Praying thankfully
for the two seconds that saved, he sprang again. And fell, painfully.

It was a useless piece of bravado. It was impossible to reach the ship.
He got up and leaped. He fell. He forced himself up and sprang and
didn't fall and sprang and fell.

He couldn't waste a blink of time in looking at the watch or yelling
with agony or even praying now. He went through his routine
automatically, his mind a thing of terror. Eons seemed to pass him by as
he hopped over the djinn-infested gray rock plain.

A superb spring took him abreast of the big lead vat. What wild scenes
of delirium were going on there he could not even imagine. He hopped
twice more and was at the ship.

At any instant, at this very second the ship would blossom into
red-white carnage of metal and flesh and death. Impossibly Pink stood on
his good leg and aimed for the scanner-port which he knew, or hoped,
connected with the screen in the control room where Jackson sat.

Now the _Elephant's Child_ was done, Jackson was shoving the switch
over, now it would all disintegrate in his face. He flew through space
and struck the hull flat; all the perishing strength in him glued his
body, his fingers in their thin gloves, to that curving surface. His
great helmet, with the crest insignia of comets and spears that marked
him as the captain, hung for a short time directly in front of the
scanner-port.

He shook his head violently, back and forth, back and forth. _No_, he
screamed in his mind, wishing insanely that his radio were constructed
so that it could be heard in the ship. _No_, he shook, _no, no_!

Then his precarious grip on the smooth side slid off, and Captain
Pinkham fell lightly but finally to the asteroid.

He lay there unresisting. He had done his best, absolutely his damned
best. Let it blow. Let it blow.

After a while he looked at his glove watch. It was two minutes past the
time for explosion.

He had saved the _Elephant's Child_.

He turned and looked across the plain and saw, beyond the great trap
into which giant-smoke was settling, two figures come running toward him
with unearthly strides. One of them halted and gathered Jerry into its
arms. The other reached Pink and knelt beside him and hugged him
tightly. Pink laughed, a passionate sound of relief. Circe said, "You
made it, darling. You made it!"

The air-lock began to open.




CHAPTER XXIV


The djinni on the floor said, "I concede this battle to you, Captain. I
have seen the ending on the screen. But there are others out there, on
Oasis and in the void. We'll win to Earth some day in spite of this
victory."

Pink, snugly ensconced in a foam-chair with his sprained ankle propped
up, his surviving officers seated around him, and Circe on the arm of
the deep chair, took another drink of lemonade. He made a face, almost
asked for brandy, and remembered. He said, "Maybe the same way you came
to these asteroids?"

"No, not that. That way went only in one direction, through the fourth
dimension, I think. The people of the continent you call Atlantis built
that way for our use, though much against our desire; and the machine
they made was so fearful that its use sank their whole land into the
sea. They were a great, scientific people, and we have not their skill."

"Atlantis too," Jerry said. "Now we've heard everything, all but the
Little People and Pan."

The djinni did not seem to hear him. Its eyes, like dead coals now in
the yellow face, rested on Pink. "It was clever of you to recognize us
from history."

"You go into bottles, speak Arabic, fly and are humanoid in form. I
should have guessed your race hours before."

"We are not humanoid. You are djinnoid. We came before you in
evolution."

"How do you know?" asked Daley.

"Our legends ... I cannot tell, being no more than six or seven thousand
years old myself. But we are told we predate man."

"When were you relegated to this belt?" asked Jerry, who was still a
little pale. "You were around in Solomon's time."

"Yes. He caught and trapped most of my race--we are not so numerous as
you cursed rabbits--by the same means you used. One great vat he
collected, after some years of the bottles, and sealed up a multitude of
my folk and cast them off a ship; somehow the currents dragged the box
to Atlantis. There my people were freed, and set about to conquer the
land. But the Atlanteans captured them after several decades and, having
constructed the terrible machine, sent them off to this forsaken hole in
space. The cataclysm the machine made--evidently they hadn't been so
clever as they thought, may Allah rot their souls!--set off volcanic
action, which eventually sank their country. It was never very large,
anyway...."

"How do you know this?" asked Pink. He was a bit breathless; at any
moment the being might decide to shut up and die. He had to satisfy his
curiosity about the space-dwellers.

"I was one who escaped Solomon. I made my way to England after a few
centuries of wandering, of being a minor deity here and there, and in
England in the late seventeenth century I met a brother. He had been on
Atlantis, and hovering above it had seen the exiling of our race and the
death of the land. Together we determined to find the machine, repair it
if need be, and bring back our people. We thought they were somewhere in
the bowels of the earth, or perhaps held invisible in the machine
itself.

"We felt we were the last djinn at liberty. We went under the sea--"

"How?" This was Bill Calico, nursing a broken leg on the couch.

"We are oblivious to our surrounding elements, so long as they are not
too dense for us to penetrate. After a year or two we found the
machine. It was partially destroyed, but so simple that we easily
repaired it. We could not see how it could make our race vanish, but as
we are indestructible except by lead, and the Atlanteans did not know of
that metal, we knew that they had vanished rather than died. When we had
the machine fixed, I volunteered to try it out and see what happened. He
was to reverse it and draw me back shortly."

       *       *       *       *       *

The monstrous thing sighed. "It was too complex for us. First I found
myself floating a mile or so off Oasis, and then my friend joined me.
His adjustments had failed. The cursed machine had relegated us both."

"God bless Atlantis," murmured Circe.

"I presume you are taking the bottles and the great vat of lead back to
Earth?" it queried slyly.

"Not on your life," said Daley. "As soon as we're out of System Ninety,
we'll drop 'em into the void. Your damn tribe will be marooned properly
this time."

"But they are alive in those prisons!" it shouted, its eyes momentarily
reddening again. "Such compression is most irksome to them, and they
must constantly shift about to keep clear of the lead in the stoppers.
It's inhuman!"

"You're right," said Pink grimly. "It's djinnlike."

"How did you learn English?" asked Jerry suddenly. "Modern English, I
mean."

"You forget; when you brought me aboard, in the guise of a Martian, you
handed me a lingoalter. It was simple to speak the English of the 17th
century into it and listen as modern speech came out."

"That's another thing. That Martian suit--how'd you get it?"

"They had come this far. We found the suit, with its occupant long
turned to dust. We kept it for such emergencies. When the space ships
foundered nearby a few years ago, we refrained from molesting this
woman, thinking that she might some day be a fine decoy."

"You watched me in the suit," said Circe.

"We did. We had not seen a human in a long time." The djinni paused,
then said, "The Martians had space travel when Earthmen were barbarians.
They came to Terra, and we, sensing danger in them, drove them out. We
saw to it that the Martians would tell tales of the horrors of Earth
life, and never come back."

"By God," said Pink, "that's why they never colonized Earth, though
they had spaceships! It's one of the biggest problems we've known."

"Then I've solved it for you. Will you do me a favor in return?"

"What?"

"Have you any lead left?"

"A little."

"Then lay it on my chest, and give me a quick death."

"Get it," Pink said to Daley. The lieutenant started a protest. Pink
said, "My Lord, can't we afford to be merciful now? After all that
slaughter?" And Daley went to find the lead.

Circe said, "Why do you want to go to Earth so badly? What's there that
you want? You're such an independent form of life...."

"Atmosphere," said the djinni.

"But you don't breathe!"

"We do, however, talk; and we cannot hear each other in a vacuum. We
wanted to find Earth again and know the pleasure of communication. On
Oasis we had to talk with our hands." It groaned, grotesquely human in
its agony. "Can you imagine living for centuries without the joy of
conversation?" it asked pitifully.

Circe shook her head. "I don't much blame you," she said in a small
voice.

Daley came back. He handed a small rough bar of lead to Pink. The
Captain's mind seethed with questions he longed to ask; but the reaction
of the battle was settling in with vengeance, and he could not see this
great paralyzed brute live on because of his own more or less idle
curiosity. He bent forward from the chair. "Sorry," he said, and dropped
the bar onto its chest.

"Wait!" said Jerry. "How did you know how to spell _phony_?"

The djinni made a small hissing noise that had something in it of
contentment. Its eyes turned jetty, and they knew it was dead.

"It died happy," said Daley to the slim O. O. "It knew it was leaving us
a problem that we'd never solve. What a--what a malicious character it
was!"

"Poor devil," said Circe. "No conversation for five hundred years!"




CHAPTER XXV


Four days later Pinkham and Circe stood quietly before a scanner screen,
Pink leaning on a cane, and watched the great lead vat and then the
multitude of bottles go tumbling into space. "We are giving them a
chance of survival," mused Circe. "There's about one chance in a billion
that some day they'll be found and released again."

"I wonder," said Pink, "if they did predate man in evolution? Or if they
were originally native to another planet that expelled 'em? There were
always legends of giants and ogres and djinn and demons on earth, myths
that started to die out about the time this late friend of ours left the
globe for good. Maybe the djinni developed side by side with man, but
was limited because of his flaws. There are a million life-forms in the
universe so alien to man as to be unexplainable, and a lot of them are
right home on Terra."

Circe shook her dark head. "Is the whole thing real, Pink? Or is it a
fantasy we've uncovered out here in the void?"

"Every damn thing about them is scientifically possible. But I know how
you feel--it seems like a fairy story. If so many good guys weren't dead
back there, I'd disbelieve it myself." He scowled a moment, then looked
at her and brightened. "Honey," he said, "remind me that I have to send
a radio message to Earth as soon as we're close enough."

"Radio message? What?"

"A sort of temperance warning, that's all." He grinned. "It goes like
this: _If you find any bottles, don't open them!_"


THE END





End of Project Gutenberg's The Giants From Outer Space, by Geoff St. Reynard

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GIANTS FROM OUTER SPACE ***

***** This file should be named 32485.txt or 32485.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/4/8/32485/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
