The Project Gutenberg EBook of Deepfreeze, by Robert Donald Locke

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Deepfreeze

Author: Robert Donald Locke

Release Date: May 26, 2010 [EBook #32531]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEEPFREEZE ***




Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from Imagination Stories of Science and
    Fantasy January 1953. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence
    that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.


                              DEEPFREEZE


                                 _By_

                        _Robert Donald Locke_


     Life and the future belong to the strong--so Dollard laughed
     as he fled Earth and Mankind's death agony. But the last
     laugh was yet to come....

       *       *       *       *       *




Edwin Dollard's nervous stubby fingers spilled three precious drops of
his fifth Scotch highball, as he veered his head away from the horrors
on the telescreen. He was in time to observe Garth enter by the
paneled tunnel door.

"Two more hours--and the ship will be ready," Garth announced. "The
men still know nothing." His thin lips cracked into a forced smile. "I
slipped them the poison at noon mess. There'll be no tales out of
those greaseballs."

Dollard's pudgy features relaxed. "Just you and I, Garth ... to
survive. The others--stupid sheep--let them die!" Lust spread his
heavy cheeks into a wide grin. "As for women, there'll be time enough
for them ... on Venus."

"I know," said Garth slowly. "Plague-untouched women. It'll be like
being reborn again." His pained somber eyes lit up. "It's right good
we understand each other...."

[Illustration]

"Just see that we continue understanding one another," Edwin Dollard
snapped. "I'm still the boss."

The last of America's industrial tycoons refocussed his attention on
the world telecasts. Since breakfast, he had sat glued to the news
while a battery of video announcers reported from central strongholds
on the progress of the bacterial epidemic that already had swept the
Atlantic seaboard.

"Any late news?" Garth asked, over Dollard's shoulder.

"For your information, I picked up a flash from Denver. Just before
you came in--"

"Bad, eh?"

"You said it, Garth. A thousand new cases. Some think the Asiatics got
another two or three missiles through the Canadian radar barrier. More
likely, the germs hitch-hiked westward on human carriers, gangs of
them streaming out of the eastern states. The mobs are like vermin;
you can't hold 'em back. They sneak through the quarantine at a
hundred points."

"They're people, aren't they?" said Garth, quietly.

"People? They're no more people than the loutish mechs you just did
away with today."

"Under your orders," Garth pointed out.

"But it had to be done. Let's not be squeamish children--"

"Yes, so it did. You're safe enough."

"You and I both," Dollard completed. "As long as we're together, we're
both safe...."

Dollard gripped his hands together and glanced nervously about the
timbered walls of his High Sierra lodge, as if to assure himself that
this carefully guarded retreat would protect him from the grisly
crawling death that was demolishing his invincible country. Even in
the presence of his most trusted hireling, Garth, who had been
executive officer of Dollard's vast combine, the millionaire was
ashamed to admit how the report from Colorado--which claimed the
enemy-seeded plague had already crossed the broad prairie states--had
been enough to send him into a cowering state of panic. And now, even
after assurance that he could soon take off in his private vessel,
bound for bacteria-free space and the antiseptic sanctuary of Venus,
he was still suffering a paroxysm of fear so great that not even a
double slug of his costly hoarded alcohol could banish it completely.

       *       *       *       *       *

Outside, hired thugs, outfitted with hydroflame rifles, patrolled the
two roads entering the narrow valley--armed with orders to shoot to
kill all unauthorized intruders. Already, the guards' task was proving
more difficult as refugees from the Los Angeles area poured into the
mountains by way of Bishop and Highway 395. Ragged foodless marauders,
they swarmed through the resort villages in vicious bands, plundering
and murdering in futile efforts to stave off starvation and death.

Dollard got up from his position before the teleset, squinting
sidewise at Garth while he poured himself three fingers of additional
courage. "You're not sorry at leaving your wife?" he inquired. "Ellen
meant a lot to you, didn't she, Garth?"

Garth shrugged. "She's safe enough where she is. That's all that
matters."

Dollard poked him in the ribs. "All that matters ... is survival. You
know that, Garth." He chuckled. "Why bother to save anybody else?"

"That's right, sir," said Garth. The muscles of his face continued to
compress his features into an unbending mask.

"And one thing's certain, there's no hope for humanity. Not on this
planet, at any rate--or not for a long while, I'm positive. You know
what they're saying now?"

"No."

"The bigdomes are asserting that only a complete mutation among the
unborn can save the higher forms of organic life. Get this, Garth.
They say that all the vertebrates, and particularly all mammals, will
have to develop new germ-resistant species--or the plague will
eventually kill off even the strongest. What's more, those damned
Asiatics are in the same boat with us, _at last_."

Garth mulled over the news. He said, "Then, any survivors on earth
will have to mutate into something other than mankind?"

"That sums it up...." Edwin Dollard raised his highball. "Here's to
_homo the sap_," he said in mock salute to the vanishing human race.
"The chump had a short life but a merry one--on Terra, anyhow. The
poor sucker spent his days in a dream world of fraternity and
equality. And all along, we, his superiors, enjoyed the liberty to
work him to death for our own benefit. It's a shame there won't be any
earthly historians to record man's final irony ... how we who made
full use of the hordes for our convenience should be virtually the
only ones to escape the hordes' destruction."

"I see," mused Garth. "That means there's not really much hope for the
ones we're leaving behind? I guess I'd always thought...." His words
trailed off.

"... that there'd be a few survivors?" Dollard supplied. "Perhaps
there will, more probably there won't. What does it matter? There's
only one chance in a thousand of licking the plague ... from the way
the bacteriologists are wailing. And even if the race does survive,
what sort of existence would it have--battling who knows what kind of
monsters some of the other forms of life are bound to change into? No,
I'm here to tell you, Garth, the remainder of the race is better
off--exterminated. The few plague-free people we'll find on Venus will
be enough to launch a greater, prouder race--provided, of course, that
I'm their leader."

       *       *       *       *       *

The industrialist waddled back to the telescreen, flicked a metal knob
that brought into view a transmission on one of the few ultra-high
frequency channels still in operation. Electronically-produced colors
provided high visual acuity to a scene that depicted Cleveland in
flames. Decontamination squads with fire bombs were shown as they
sought to cleanse Euclid Avenue of its infected dead.

"Scenes like this have been duplicated in a dozen cities already this
afternoon," Edwin Dollard said. "It'd be enough to turn the stomach of
a lesser man. Frankly, I'd hoped the health squads could contain the
epidemic--but I guess at heart I never entertained any real prospect
that they would. As long as we've got a little time to expend, we
might as well sit here and enjoy the sight."

"Sit and wallow in it, if you like," replied Garth. "I think I better
check the road guards once more. If those plug-uglies smell out your
plan to desert them our lives won't be worth a punctured isotope."

"You know I'd go with you," Dollard sighed, "but I fear my presence
antagonizes the lower classes somehow. Considering the pay they're
drawing down, I'll never understand why, either."

Garth strode to the lodge's steel-plated front entrance, a formidable
barrier designed to match the strength of a space cruiser's main
airlock. Standing opposite the heavy circular plates, he gestured
before the five heat-sensitive electronic tumblers and the heavy door
swung open on oiled hinges. When he stepped outside, the barrier
closed behind him.

Alone inside the timbered hide-away, Edwin Dollard immediately shed
the affected air of corpulent lassitude he generally displayed in the
presence of others. Now that the deadline for his attempt to sneak off
the planet approached, it was essential that he attend to the
completion of his personal preparations. Above the mantel of the
lodge's thermionic fireplace was hung a brilliant cascading stereo of
Yosemite Falls in misty motion. Dollard pressed a hidden button. The
mantel sank to ground level and the stereo swung outward, bringing
into view a shining cubical locker of beryllium steel.

From this hiding place, Dollard withdrew two loaded hydroflame
pistols. These he strapped under each armpit. Next, he brought out a
palm-sized stunner which he concealed in his hand by aid of a
wrist-strap. The fourth object to emerge was a small chunky bag from
which dangled tightly-drawn leather thongs. Dollard opened the pouch
and poured the contents on to his sweaty palm; a thousand carats of
glistening "Syrtis diamonds" from his own private mines. The rarity
and value of these jewels, he knew, would be increased by the collapse
of the terrestrial civilization that had refined them and cut and
polished their rainbow facets.

These gleaming objects of unfixed price were the guardians that would
stand by him during the months it would take to reestablish himself
among the colonies on Venus. Not only would they purchase luxuries,
but also new servants, fabrication plants, ore boats; possibly, even
governments. Above all, they would serve to bribe Dollard's way
through the tight network of Venusian immigration officials who might
seek--in accord with the laws of their sparsely-settled but
independent world--to forbid his landing as a refugee from a diseased
planet.

       *       *       *       *       *

A full hour passed before Garth returned, an hour that Edwin Dollard
spent pacing the narrow confines of the lodge's central room. His eyes
constantly consulted the slow march of minutes on the luminescent dial
of his platinum chronometer ... for while it was not imperative that
the space yacht he had refurbished should soar starward at the precise
hour agreed upon, there did reign a crucial period of four or five
hours immediately at hand, during which the most advantageous passage
to Venus should be commenced.

When Garth finally reappeared through the steel doorway, his thin long
face reflected the strain he also felt as departure time neared.

"I checked the roadway two miles up the valley," he reported. "No
activity in sight. There was a riot at Leevining, or so one of your
guards told me--and a big pitched battle in Bishop between lowlanders
and highlanders."

"Another day or two and they'd be swarming all over this region,"
Dollard said.

"You can bet their first reaction would be to dismantle the ship at
sight," Garth informed him. "Lucky we're getting out in time. If the
mobs couldn't pilot the vessel themselves, it'd be human nature to see
to it that nobody else got to do so, either. Misery loves
company--even in the face of death."

"The scum," said Dollard. He donned a jaunty space cap he had often
worn on pleasure flights to his outlying holdings. Hooking his thumbs
in his belt, he grinned: "Well, Garth, shall we go?"

Garth nodded. He detached a torch that was clasped to his waist, then
opened the tunnel door that was carved out of a braced section of the
rear wall where the lodge had been built to shore into the
mountainside. Entering, the two men threaded a winding route through a
narrow dripping passageway, guided by the thin yellow beam of Garth's
light. They emerged several hundred feet farther on in a valley of
long shadows, cut off from the world on three sides by abrupt cliffs.
No ravines opened on this valley. Only by a desperate climb over the
surrounding peaks could it be reached--and hence it had been immune
to spying eyes. Here, amounting to a feat of superb pilotage in
itself, Dollard's vessel had been landed weeks earlier in anticipation
of just such a need as it now served.

Sturdy shrubbery screened the tunnel exit, although concealment had
not proved to be necessary. As they broke into the light, Dollard and
Garth pushed aside stunted conifers and half-stumbled, half-ran down a
shale-strewn incline which led them to the valley's floor.

A short northward walk brought them in view of the refitted space
craft. Based on stubby fins, it pointed vertically at the sky.

The high sharp ridges surrounding the valley blotted out the late
afternoon sun, casting gloom upon the sheer rock walls and overhanging
escarpments, and, despite his previous acclimatization to Sierra
altitudes, the thin sharp air made breathing difficult for Dollard.

A short distance from where the vessel was cradled, the bodies of five
coveralled workmen lay in stiff huddled forms. At the sight, Dollard
grunted. "Efficient toxin," he commented. "Good work."

       *       *       *       *       *

Walking contemptuously past the bodies, the tycoon approached a work
shack which had housed the space ship mechanics. He picked up an
aluminum platform-ladder which rested on the trampled grass. Swinging
it above his head, he brought it back to the vessel and hooked it
against the rear fin so that the tubular platform lodged itself
against the ship's lowest loading hatch.

He turned to Garth. "Too bad we can't run an engine-to-mech check,
before taking off. But no mechanics."

Garth said, "Knocking off the men was your idea."

"My conscience'll rest easy with it," Dollard returned. "I was making
a joke."

"Very funny joke," said Garth.

"Very funny for you, too," said Dollard.

His fingers squeezed the rubber-mounted grips of the stunner concealed
in the palm of his left hand. A slight eye-stinging flash burst in the
fading light. As the wave moved outward from the tiny device, Garth
stiffened and pitched forward, bouncing perceptibly before his body
finally succumbed to the compulsion of gravity.

Dollard aimed the hard toe of his metallic shoe and kicked him
viciously in the temple. Garth's body did not stir.

"I would have liked an engine-to-mechanic check very much," Dollard
said thoughtfully. "But these things can't always be planned neat
enough to meet every detail. There has to be leeway for diversive
action--should the situation merit it. In this case, the situation
seems to have merited it rather fully."

He began to climb the narrow aluminum rungs of the propped-up ladder.
After reaching the platform, he stood on the grilled support, his fat
panting bulk braced against the upper chord of the stabilizer fin. He
looked back briefly at Garth's unconscious form on the ground.

"You were a fool, Garth! A fool to believe that I would take you along
with me--to share a new empire. Know when I lost complete respect for
your intelligence? It was when you banked that past services for me
would assure you of future salvation. Very stupid. Didn't you know
your usefulness would end for me the moment I left Terra? Why should I
have dragged you along to drink up my oxygen, eat my food ... and
undermine me later on? No, friend Garth, you were--all along--just as
much a tool as those uniformed carcasses you poisoned on my behalf.
May you join them in the sad reflection they must now be
experiencing...."

Garth's paralyzed body lay still.

Dollard pressed against the outer panel of the hatch and stepped into
the opening that was made by the sliding section. He disappeared into
the bowels of the ship, and the hatch closed after him.

A few seconds later, a rumbling inside announced the vessel's engines
had come to life. Stubby atmospheric wings unfolded into place on the
shining metal sides. Rocket vents below the scorched tail surface
began to glow a cherry red as fused gases bit into the pitted ground.
The ship's entire length trembled slightly as it left the surface.
Climbing into the blue with an ever-increasing _whoosh_, it described
an arc over the jagged peaks and vanished.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another half hour passed, before the cataleptic effect of the stunner
eased sufficiently for Garth to sit up and rest his chest and arms
upon his knees. He rubbed his forehead, felt the bruise at his temple
and gazed speculatively at the sky. Then, he studied the bubbling
earth only a few feet away from him and realized how close he had been
to death from the space vessel's back-blasts. He shuddered a moment.

After his head cleared, he struggled to his feet and walked over the
damp grass to the work shack. Entering, he searched through a chemical
cabinet until he found the vials he wanted. From them, he compounded a
liquid mixture which he forced into the ampoule of a hypodermic
needle.

When he stepped outside again, he saw the sky had darkened quickly
with evening. He walked over to the stricken mechanics and
administered an injection into the neck muscles of each man. The
counter-toxin took hold, speedily erasing the depressant effect of the
drug Garth had originally fed the men--a non-fatal dosage of an
irritant similar to the one Dollard had ordered be used to slay them.

He'd supervised a lot of Dollard's underhanded work for him, Garth
told himself as he waited for the hypo stimulant to react. But
murdering helpless men had been something he had rebelled at. And now
that Dollard had deserted him, at least he would have company on Terra
during his last days of life. It was an outcome Garth had anticipated,
although he had been unable to predict just when Dollard would launch
his surprise attack.

The men came to sluggishly, their reactions pathetic and confused. The
first thing they appeared to notice when their conscious minds took
hold of their environment was the empty circle of terrain where the
space yacht had formerly stood.

"Dollard took off," Garth explained. "He drugged us all, after we'd
gotten the vessel in shape for him."

"The dirty swine--he promised he'd take us!" the men protested.

"Like so many other promises he never intended to keep," said Garth.
"He told you men--for instance--the ship was headed for Luna. Me, he
told, he was bound for Venus. I think his destination is Venus, but
he'll never get there."

"Not get there--why?"

"Because of a little secret I never let him know," Garth replied,
rubbing his nose and grinning wryly. "My wife is on Venus, where the
plague can't reach her. And I promised myself days ago that Dollard
should never be given the opportunity to infect that planet. That's
one promise that has been kept. At least, I know now that Ellen will
be safe--for a while longer."

"But, sir, the big boss has gone! What can you do--with him flown the
coop?"

"Do now? I've already done it. Dollard thought of me as a fool, but
instead--I've shown him up as the real fool. A simpleton, tricked by
carelessness. There's a damned big surprise waiting for him in space."

Garth looked up into the twilight sky where a few brilliant stars were
now shining. His face bore an expression of exultant triumph. "Yes,"
he said softly, "a real surprise is just around the next curve for
you, Edwin Dollard. I hope you enjoy it as well as you've enjoyed
buying and selling men's souls...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Five hundred miles above the sun-mirroring Pacific Ocean, Dollard
wiped great beads of perspiration from his shiny jowls. His thick
hands tugged and wrestled with stubborn knobs that finally yielded,
enabling him to apply greater thrust to his stern rockets.

From the moment of take-off, it had seemed to him that the grim bowl
of Terra below him was taking a bigger bite out of his acceleration
than it should. Naturally, he hadn't expected his craft to operate
with one hundred per cent efficiency, considering the caliber of the
technical help employed on its refitting; but still, his _tau_ curve
should have brought him to his first coasting point four or five
minutes earlier.

By virtue of being his own pilot, he was obliged to astrogate by
rule-of-thumb and occasional directive spurts from the course-calculator.
If mechanical troubles piled on top of him now, he'd have to surrender
control to his gyromatic pilot, while he moved aft to track down the
power-robbing malfunction. No mean task, armed in this case only with a
slide rule and what engineering knowledge remained to him after thirty
years of high finance.

Whatever the gremlin was, it wasn't exactly an auspicious start for a
fifty million-mile hop. He grunted and pressed his secondary firing
buttons, boosting space velocity by a percentage that should shake the
kinks out.

At the four thousand-mile mark, the earth had retreated to a green
ball that floated atop a stream of unbearably bright stars. From this
height above the planet's surface, not even the most powerful
telescope would have revealed the scenes of rampant disease and
flaming destruction being enacted on the broad continents below.

The entire vessel shook in a kind of bone-cracking vibration, lurching
and lumbering as if some malign influence had tampered with every
rivet and seam-weld in her plates.

More apprehensive than ever, Dollard finally yielded to his fears and
surrendered his controls to the robot pilot. His huge body rendered
almost weightless, he pulled himself along the rail guards of a
catwalk that led to the unmanned engine room. Here he inspected every
instrument dial to be found although the readings on many of them were
repeated on duplicates in the bow.

It was then, while the ship was still a thousand miles from the
no-pull point where free-wheeling alone had been known to carry
vessels out of Terra's gravitational range and into Venus' orbit, that
disaster struck. The fuel being fed to exactly half of the rocket
tubes choked out, and the blast from the remaining tubes increased
proportionately.

Under this new impetus, the vessel's frame shuddered. Its nose
suddenly described a wild arc among the gyrating stars. The diversion
of inertia was a more severe blow than a meteor collision would have
been. Thrust was an exceedingly difficult thing to plot in free space.
Dollard, screaming in panic, was flung against a network of metal
braces; despite his weightlessness, his mass was great as ever and a
sharp steel corner gouged a deep bleeding slash in his puffy cheek.
Sickened, he crawled forward through the spinning ship until he was
once more able to pull himself up into the pilot's chair.

There, he discovered the second battery of tubes had ceased firing
about a minute after the first. But the changed vectors had already
done their damage to both ship and heading.

       *       *       *       *       *

A quick run-through on the course-calculator soon revealed to Dollard
how desperate his position was. Mathematically, Venus was now a goal
impossible to attain. To re-correct his altered heading would require
more fuel than his tanks had carried at take-off, thanks to sabotage.
He also had the vast gravitational field of the sun to battle--a
powerful sucking force, which if left to work its will could grow
insidiously from a gentle tug of a few millimeters per second to a
powerful acceleration eighty times terrestrial escape velocity--and
this, without ever once relinquishing its hold on the slightest
particle of mass in its grip.

Cursing and fuming, Dollard plotted and re-plotted, some of the
rustiness of his brain wearing off as he matched his wits against the
prospect of death by holocaust. But, all the resources of higher
mathematics failed to point toward a solution. An artery commenced to
throb painfully above his ear.

It was Garth who had engineered this hideous accident, he told
himself. The faithful unsuspecting Garth had turned out to be a
traitor. He was the one who had rigged the fuel lines so that at a
certain predicted point along the course the flow along one set of
conduits would be shunted to the other.

He should have killed Garth instead of merely stunning him, Dollard
thought angrily.

For the twentieth time, he fed three-body calculations into the
astro-computer. Somehow, somewhere, in the maze of the Newtonian
science there had to be an answer. The complexities of force and
heading analysis weren't so great but what machinery could eventually
solve all the variables involved. That is, if only Sol's overwhelming
gravitational attraction didn't provide a free-sliding path to hell
with no choice of alternates in the meanwhile....

The _click-click_ of the tape as it emerged from the electronic
calculator seemed to present a different rhythm to Dollard's ears on
the twenty-first try. Picking up the ribbon, he let his reddened eyes
run over the printed symbols, translating them into finished
equations. Elation suddenly sent his blood pressure soaring, as the
meaning of what he read became apparent. There was a solution ... a
course he could follow! One, which while it would not guide him to
Venus, would prevent him from plunging into the sun.

Eagerly, he punched the figures for the heading onto a magnetized wire
that would be fed into the gyropilot. After the heading was set, he
crawled toward the ship's stern, dragging with him a hydrojet welding
torch, a tool that could sear metal apart or join it by causing
regulation of the molten rod protruding from its spring barrel. In the
abdomen of the vessel, he found the wrecked fuel lines and removed the
obstruction Garth had set up, repairing the channels.

       *       *       *       *       *

Returning to the pilot chamber, he pressed the firing button and
acceleration returned a form of gravity to the ship's interior, giving
him weight for the first time since the freakish accident.

Sighing with relief as the heavens slowly rotated in his screen,
Dollard slumped back in his chair. He punched new figures into the
computer, thinking ... now once safely back into a no-pull zone, a man
with a little luck should be able to make--

His chunky fingers froze to the keys. There was another flaw to be
dealt with. The discrepancy was one the course-calculator had clearly
pointed out, but he had overlooked it in his haste to get underway.
The solution he had followed was the only possible one--that was still
quite true. But, use of it only plunged him into a second predicament.

This new course, said the equations, a course which would require all
the remaining fuel to maintain, would steer the ship into a permanent
orbit around the earth--an ellipse with the point of apogee far beyond
Luna. He now had the certainty of continued life--for a few more days,
until his provisions gave out....

Again he cursed the name of Garth. But for the man's treachery he
would be well on his way to Venus. Now, he was a helpless trapped mass
of protoplasm, protected from his bitter airless environment only by
the same steel walls of the cage that held him....

       *       *       *       *       *

Throughout the next twenty-four hours, as the nature of the elliptical
orbit he had entered became more and more apparent, Dollard fought off
sleep while his frightened brain racked and racked again its scattered
fund of knowledge for an answer to the new problem.

But at last, the narcosis of cellular exhaustion completely overcame
him and he slept.

When he awoke, he was chilled and hungry. The ship had passed into the
shadow of Luna and its bulkheads no longer conducted heat to the
convecting air envelope inside from the outer plates, generally warmed
by solar radiations. It took him sometime to get warm again.

He pondered anew his predicament. It would be useless to plead for
help to the Terran space authorities. All interplanetary flights had
been grounded since the Asiatics had scattered the epidemic over the
western world only to have it re-invade their own borders; all the
national governments were fighting rebellion and plague
simultaneously, and most important of all as far as Dollard was
concerned, he had effectively outlawed himself from the jurisdiction
of all governments by his acts of murder and his treason in fleeing
Terra. No, there could be no help from the officials of earth.

Not in present years anyhow, he thought. But, wait! Suppose this plague
should ultimately die out or be conquered. Then, wouldn't space travel be
resumed? If not by the human race, by its successor--whichever race or
species, if such could happen, that mutated successfully enough to produce
a plague resistant strain and then evolved a rational brain.

Civilizations rose and toppled in cycles, he knew. Sometime in the
near future or even the far future, another civilization would emerge
on Terra and another race would conquer the stars.

But what value was that to him, if he would die in a few days from
lack of oxygen?

No, if he were to be rescued, it had to be soon. By the Venusian
colonists? No hope lay there, either. The second planet was an infant
world, and its people--even if they succeeded in making space travel
common--would be apt to avoid the Earth-Luna system like the--

He choked: There was no other word for it:--like the plague....

Again, he was conscious of his brief chill. It aroused some elusive
connection in his brain with a piece of information he had nearly
forgotten. What was it? Cerebration set in, as he sought to pin down
the clue he wanted.... He felt his body chilling....

_Chilling_, he thought. That was it, _deep freezing_.

What cold was colder than the eternal absolute zero of outer space?
Where could a person find temperatures lower than those in the
celestial icebox that extended everywhere around him? Just outside his
port window lurked enough chill to keep his body intact for a million
years!

And in a million years, who knew what cultures would learn to pilot
vessels through space and come his way to revive him? Possibly alien
cultures whom his superior genius for organizing would enable him to
dominate. Already, the contemplation of such a possibility rendered
the prospect so alluring he wondered why he was holding back. Why not
step out of the airlock immediately?

       *       *       *       *       *

It was calm reasoning that deterred him, the realization that if his
scheme for survival were to meet success, he would have to lay his
plans deep enough to meet every contingent possibility.

Two things became immediately apparent as essential: (1) He would have
to adopt a method of self-freezing that would assure instantaneous
cessation of his life activities without injuring his body cells by
converting the water to ice. (2) He would have to leave behind him an
explanation of what he had done and sufficient directions concerning
his revivification that he would not be restored so slowly as to alter
his molecular structure, a turn of affairs which would in fact make
him unalterably dead long before he approached normal body warmth.

Now, thoroughly aroused by the possibility of escaping total death,
Edwin Dollard fought his way back through the damaged compartments to
the tuberoom. Here were vats of liquid helium, used in Collins engines
to refrigerate the volatile rocket fuel. The helium, Dollard knew, was
in turn kept super-cool by contact with magnetic salts, mostly iron
ammonium sulphate, the magnetic field being generated by the ship's
auxiliary dynamos when in operation, the ship's batteries at other
times.

But if one were to open all ports or hatches, allowing the atmosphere
to escape, the absolute zero space would infiltrate the ship's
interior making it unnecessary for either the helium to cool the fuel,
or the salts to cool the helium. All would probably approach a state
of absolute heat death. And the body of a man, immersed in the helium
vat, would be preserved for eternity!

Dollard laughed. He would defy Garth yet!

He spent the following day in the most efficient of preparations.
Moving about the ship, he posted complete directions for his recovery
in as many languages as he knew. Then, he drew with painstaking care a
series of diagrams that repeated the information in pictograph form.
Finally he recorded directions on sound tape and hooked the reproducer
to an electron eye so it would commence to play the moment the vessel
was entered.

This task completed, he set about to prepare his own body. It was
imperative that the suspension take place so speedily that none of the
animal heat was retained. For this purpose, he imbibed a heavy amount
of alcohol which served to flush his capillaries and distribute
calories more equally through his system.

Next, he gathered wiring and rigged up a remote-control board that
would enable him to open the ship's hatches from sanctuary inside the
tuberoom. When finally ready, he stood by the helium vats, opened a
switch on the jerry-built board and listened to the vessel's
atmospheric envelope swoosh out in the passages just beyond the sealed
tuberoom hatch.

Now, the only air remaining inside the craft was that in the tuberoom
itself.

At that moment, the ship circling the mother planet entered the shadow
of Terra and chilled perceptibly in the absence of radiated sunlight.

Dollard stripped to his skin. His lips were blue and his limbs were
trembling, despite their cushion of fat. He pressed the last button
and the pressure inside the room commenced to drop. He stood by the
largest vat until all the oxygen was gone, except that remaining in
his lungs. The outer hatch swung open, admitting the penetrating cold
of complete vacuum.

The trapped industrialist exhaled his breath, counted three and dived
into the tank.

His body sank and the atoms of helium temporarily left their random
state with the influx of heat, but returned quickly as the magnetic
field took up the slack, vaporizing the ammonium salts. All was quiet
again--

The human brain and the secondary laws of thermodynamics had combined
to thwart the will of a relentless universe.

Edwin Dollard, financial genius and murderer in his time, had entered
into a state of suspended animation from which only an equal
intelligence could ever awaken him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The planets and their satellites revolved in their orbits for
uncounted centuries, until even the fixed stars shifted and formed new
constellations. During this long almost interminable period, no
man-made vessels disturbed the equilibrium between the worlds; no
man-made radiations penetrated the empty spaces of the solar system. A
wanderer from Procyon or Sirius, entering the neighborhood of Sol,
might well have suspected he had found nine lifeless spheres pursuing
a futile and purposeless course about their flaming parent.

So immutable however are the laws of celestial mechanics, once set
into operation, that Dollard's ship varied not a centimeter in its
elliptical path during those endless dragging years.

But organic life, by its very definition, is highly viable, highly
persistent; it is capable of protracted existence in such diverse
environments as the imbedded hearts of meteors or the currents of
briny polar seas. It is likewise capable of infinite modifications
under stress, such as glacial flow, cessation of moisture, loss of
sunlight ... or, the rampant onslaught of bacterial disease.

Hardiest of all forms of life, as proved in the last days of the
reptilian age, are the carnivorous mammalian orders; these members are
generally the most adaptable, intelligent and ubiquitous of living
types. And by their conquest of their stubborn environment, they have
proven themselves equally the fiercest.

Thus, it was not surprising that eventually the derelict spaces
between the inner planet of Sol were once again the scene of traffic;
not bristling traffic perhaps, but sufficient to present concrete
proof a new intelligent race had developed on Terra.

Nor was it anymore surprising to Edwin Dollard, when Dollard awoke,
aroused from his long sleep--and conscious in the passage of time of
no more than a second's absence from the world of sense and
light--that this life should have found him.

He awoke, aware of stinging pain in his eyelids and the jabbing of a
thousand needles below the surface of his skin. A glaring white bulb,
suspended in an ice-blue ceiling, dug into his pupils with relentless
intensity.

A voice, couched in a low-throated growl, spoke just above his ear in
an unintelligible language. A second voice, farther away, answered
with a guttural purring.

Dollard slowly revolved his field of vision until it rested upon the
first creature who had spoken. His eyes made out a man-like apparition
in a white smock buttoned to a metal harness, a tall lithe figure
whose curiously pointed face regarded him with unblinking interest.

"You are come to, I notice," the creature said, employing a rasping
blurred form of English. "I am Shir K'han, of the people of Tegur,
detailed to interpret your meager tongue, oh frozen primate."

"You're not human ... but at least you're intelligent," Dollard
snorted. "Where am I?"

"On board a vessel of the Tegurian fleet, bound for the home planet."

"Which one do you call 'home'?"

For reply, Shir K'han gestured towards a bulkhead paneling at the far
end of the room. Dollard's eyes focussed on a trimensional photo-mural
of Terra. In the representation, the continental outlines of the
planet were the same; but if the colors were reproduced accurately,
then the earth had lost the bulk of its polar cap and become a
tropical world. The Sahara was a verdant green, while a great portion
of the Amazon valley was inundated by bluish seas.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dollard attempted to sit up; the struggle was what first caused him to
notice his nude body was strapped by polished steel clamps to a long
flat porcelain table. Rolling his head to one side, he discovered that
the table's rim contained a long shallow trough which had not been
scoured too clean. Deepening stains remained of whosever blood it was
that had been contributed from the last autopsy performed on the
surface of the table.

"Why'm I tied up?" Dollard demanded.

"A temporary precaution," Shir K'han replied, soothingly. The growl of
his voice had now reduced itself to a monotonous purr, which reminded
Dollard of nothing so much as a ... but then, he shook his head: No!
that couldn't be. Mankind replaced by a thinking species of biped
felines--descended from a race of giant jungle cats. The development
was fantastic.

"Precaution?" Dollard repeated.

"You might have become violent, primate. Only a few anthropoids are
extant, now. And They are scraggly skulkers, hiding out in the brush
of the second planet--the world you knew as Venus. But even so, many
of them have been known to react quite viciously when captured."

"Then, there are humans left?"

"I see you recognize the difference between our race and yours at
once." Shir K'han stiffened with pride. "The gap is quite great."

Dollard noticed a very faint striped pattern could be traced in the
fuzzy growth on Shir K'han's bared arms.

"Yes, some members of the previous culture do survive," the feline
continued. "Puny specimens. We have been forced to hunt them down.
Unfortunately, they breed slowly."

"I claim no kinship with them," said Dollard. "If you're sniffing
around in an effort to find out my sentiments about that, you can stop
right now. As a man from the past, I'm strictly for myself." He
winked. "What's more, I never did believe that monkey business. You
know, about the human race being the only kind of life having souls or
intelligence."

"Strange words ... from a primate."

"That's what I say. You look good enough to me. You have an adequate
IQ--that's the only test you need to pass with me. Now, how about
getting these clamps off of me?"

Dollard's renewed request incited no action. The feline interpreter's
pointed features were impassive; only the pricked attitude of his
tufted ears indicated he was listening.

"Let's go," Dollard cajoled. "You've revived me--and I think I've
proved I'm not dangerous."

"You still do not seem to understand. Your animation from the frozen
sleep was undertaken solely because it was a challenge to our science
that we could not over-look."

"And a bang-up job you did of it. Followed my directions perfectly."

"We used our own methods," Shir K'han corrected.

"The idea was mine."

"True, but had you known it, there did exist a mathematical solution
to your problem of escaping from the fixed orbit your ship adopted.
Apparently, to your misfortune, your training failed to include a
knowledge of five-body equations ... so you never arrived at the
proper heading you needed to take."

"Naturally, not," the revived industrialist snapped in answer. "But
that couldn't be helped. I never professed to be a super-competent
astrogator. In my world, in my time, I was a leader of my race--a
builder of factories and machines."

"Our archeologists have dug into the ruins of your
civilization--without, however, a great deal of curiosity," said Shir
K'han coldly. "We found little in it to interest us. We have
translated your language--but even so, we uncovered nothing to equal
even the barest rudiments of our own science. Our zoologists dismiss
you as extra-clever primates--possessed of some knacks, but nowhere on
a reasoning, perspicuous level."

"But that's absurd--"

"From our point of view, no. In fact, we still debate whether you
primates could have been intelligent enough to have founded your
culture without the aid of some early Tegurians. We Tegurians have
been superior to the anthropoids as far back as our own history goes,
which is to the days of the Great Impetus--the epoch when our race was
gifted with great powers and the primates degenerated."

"Nonsense," scoffed Edwin Dollard. "Get me off this sadistic
table--and I'll demonstrate how smart I am." He squinted, studying the
feline's high-domed head and furry chin.

"Now, I've got you pegged," he went on. "You're just a specimen of
what a jacked-up tiger would turn out to be, burned under a few
million volts of hard radiation. You may be civilized, you and your
people--but I bet it took you a million years of high-speed evolution
to do it. If it hadn't been for mankind's work with mutable bacteria,
you'd still be chasing your tails under the palm trees--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Shir K'han interrupted him, remarking: "The art of vituperation and
scolding always was a characteristic of the various simian species. We
have an apt axiom among the people of Tegur. It might be translated:
'Chattering man, empty brain pan'."

At that moment, it occurred to Dollard he was pressing his initial
luck too far. No use antagonizing present company.

"All right. I know when I'm bucking the system too hard," he replied
cagily. "What _do_ you intend to do with me?"

For answer, the interpreter turned to the second Tegurian in the room,
a creature who had stood motionless near the only exit, and uttered a
flow of guttural syllables, climaxed by a high-pitched questioning
note. The reply was forthcoming almost immediately, spoken in
weightier, more deliberate tones.

"The commander says you are to be presented to the leaders of our
civilization," Shir K'han reported. "That'll take place when we dock
at the home planet in a few hours. In the meanwhile, you may have the
run of the ship."

The feline pushed down a knobbed lever and the steel clamps slid from
Dollard's trussed form. His relief matched only by his quickened
awareness of the need for caution in dealing further with his
rescuers, Dollard took advantage of his release to stretch his aching
muscles.

Standing erect caused him a moment's dizziness, which he could not
account for until he recalled that the alcohol he had drunk thousands
(or was it millions?) of years previously still remained in his
bloodstream.

Although the interior of the Tegurian ship was suffocatingly warm, yet
Dollard felt the lack of clothing with what amounted to discomfort. He
described his feeling to Shir K'han who told him his apparel had also
been found in the circling space yacht. Equally well-preserved by the
cold of interplanetary space, the clothes would be brought to him
immediately.

After garbing himself, Dollard strolled about the Tegurian vessel. Its
alien constructure seemed to defy all the architectural principles
familiar to a human's primate mind. Catwalks, especially, lived up
fully to their name, appearing as mere unsupported ribbons that
stretched across banks of throbbing molecular engines. Mechanics
traversed these walks over fuel pits with graceful skill, despite the
lack of handholds. Everywhere, Dollard noticed that members of the
crew, when relieved of their tasks, immediately dropped off to slumber
without need of intervening recreation.

Slightly less than six hours after he was awakened, Edwin Dollard
heard whistles scream through the length of the vessel announcing
planetfall would take place in only a few minutes.

Shir K'han padded up to his side and informed him that he would have
to rest in a padded cell while the landing took place. The muscles of
his human body would not be up to the shock of deceleration--a
magnified strain to which feline muscles had long been accustomed.

Dollard obeyed. By now he was weary of his confinement aboard. He was
anxious to get aground where he should meet the true leaders of Tegur.
He could impress _them_ with his superior abilities. Of course, it
would seem strange to find Terra ruled by another species, but after
all that was a contingency he had fully considered when he voluntarily
undertook the deepfreeze. Little by little, the first shock of
encountering an alien culture seemed to be wearing off--yet he knew
there were still many mind-twisting problems to face.

Shortly after he had braced himself against the sponge-lined
bulkheads, a great shock travelled transversely through the ship,
followed by a dozen or more lesser shudders. Metal groaned and creaked
all about him, and the room temperature noticeably increased.

       *       *       *       *       *

Left to himself, Dollard immediately began to formulate new plans.
Searching his garments, he was relieved to find a pocket still
contained the bag of glittering Syrtis diamonds with which he had
hoped long ago to bribe Venusian officials. The gems might prove
equally useful now in cementing his position with the Tegurians. He
was angered however to find his flame pistols and stunner had been
taken away from him.

He decided that immediately after his presentation to the leaders, he
would ask for the privilege of inspecting their factories and other
technological facilities. There had never been erected an industrial
plant yet, whose efficiency couldn't in some way be improved, Dollard
knew.

By making himself practicably useful, Dollard knew that in time he
could build up a personal organization that eventually would result in
the acquisition of a new financial empire.

All of course hinged upon the very vital conference with the upper
echelon of Tegurian rulers.

But, at least it could be said that Edwin Dollard had proved himself
capable of dealing with fortune on its toughest terms. Now, he was in
the home stretch of his new career.

Seconds after, the Tegurian ship landed with a thunderous jolt. The
engine throb died away and silence reigned along the corridors.
Dollard found his breath painfully short as renewed anxiety gripped
him. This was the crucial moment.

A panel slid open and Shir K'han appeared. "Come," he said. "The
leaders have been notified and are waiting at the banquet hall."

"Splendid," said Dollard, rubbing his hands together. "If things work
out to advantage for me, I'll remember you, Shir K'han."

The Tegurian's yellow eyes blinked as if he had not heard.

Outside, Dollard's lungs expanded to draw in deep gulps of the
luxuriant tropical air that characterized a warmer Terra. At a
considerable distance from the nearly deserted spaceport, he saw that
a brilliant city of high towers capped by narrow glass spires raised
its shining structures to the sky. The sharp-pointed buildings could
be seen to be interlaced with countless spidery cables and glistening
bridges.

For Dollard's observing eyes, the vista of the metropolis evoked--by
some indefinable ancient suggestiveness--a buried Terran memory of a
giant banyan tree pierced by lean striped bamboos.

"Bengul, our capital," Shir K'han told him. "This way, now." He
pointed to a waiting air vehicle on the lonely drome. "In there--and
you'll only have five more minutes." The feline nostrils wrinkled.

"Five more minutes?" said Dollard. "Aren't you going?"

"No, I wasn't invited."

"I'm to go alone?"

"Yes," Shir K'han replied. The prolonged effort of speaking in a
strange tongue was reflected in his increasingly roughened tones.
"I've been ordered to put you in the cage-flier. Then, my job is done.
The cage will transfer you to the leaders' quarters--where all else
will be done. Farewell, primate. It has been interesting. I could
almost swear that...."

He paused.

"Something troubling you?" said Dollard, who didn't usually concern
himself with other persons' inner disturbances. He wondered now what
instinct prompted this particular inquiry of solicitude on his part.

"You trouble me," replied Shir K'han. "I would almost swear you had ... a
high intelligence ... and a soul worthy of a Tegurian. But, of course, I
know that isn't so."

"That's not what I meant," Dollard said, fretfully. "There's something
else--" For a moment, he felt like screaming, "--something you haven't
told me."

"Would you really like to know?" said Shir K'han. "I had thought it
was better you didn't. But, then I have often been accused of strange
sympathies for a Tegurian--"

"I demand to know."

"Then, I must hurry. Only a few minutes remain. Let me try to draw you
a mental picture, primate. Your race, like ours, was carnivorous. You
feasted on many delicacies--on species extinct like the steer, the
pheasant, the squirrel. It was your very nature, your undeniable
primal instincts, that made you enjoy the rending and devouring of
flesh--"

"True," admitted Dollard. His body was now trembling.

"I remember," continued Shir K'han, "one of our archeologists
translated an account of how the primates of your time unearthed the
body of a mastodon, buried in the glacial ice. The mastodon flesh, a
delicacy, was so well-preserved that it was still edible. And so, it
was eaten."

"I--I don't think I understand what you're getting at," declared
Dollard.

       *       *       *       *       *

He looked anxiously about him, but the flat plain bore no shelter--or
for that matter, no other objects save the waiting air vehicle and the
recently-landed space ship on the drome. Lights began to glow in the
far-off city.

"The point is," said the feline interpreter, "that it would have made
no difference to the primates had the mastodon been intelligent. They
would have eaten him anyway. In your epoch, primates ate many domestic
animals who differed less in intelligence quotient from them than
differ civilized Tegurians from human primates like yourself ... the
gap today is much greater...."

"Then, you--"

"Not me. Only the leaders of my world, shall I say. By virtue of their
exalted rank, they have the right to the choicest of foods. Since the
dawn of our history, the flesh of primates has been our greatest
delicacy--but it has grown scarcer and scarcer, until now it is
virtually non-existent. And such specimens, as are trapped, are
stringy and barely edible."

Dollard looked down guiltily at his own plump body. His face bore the
flushed expression of one suddenly conscious of sin.

"But you," continued Shir K'han, "your body is fat and
well-preserved. When we found you on your derelict ship, our commander
communicated with the rulers of Tegur immediately. He was ordered to
change course and bring you to Bengul--"

The feline's speech broke off. Edwin Dollard had suddenly commenced to
run from the horror of this alien world, recognition of his fate
having burst like a rocket in his panic-stricken mind. His heart was
pounding.

But loping easily along as his ancestors might have pursued a baboon
or antelope, Shir K'han overtook the screaming human. He seized his
obese bulk by the waist and lifted him high above his head. While
Dollard kicked and moaned, the feline bore him back to the air vehicle
and deposited him in a wire mesh cage in the flying craft's cockpit. A
tangle of the sticky ropes descended from the cage's roof, further
entangling the trapped industrialist and serving to reduce him to
helplessness.

Shir K'han adjusted knobs and switches on the vehicle's control board,
until he had produced the desired setting. Then, he stepped back.

"As I said before," he declared "this vehicle will automatically
transport you to the leaders' banquet hall--to arrive in five minutes.
There, you will be prepared and presented to our rulers. I hope you
please them. The reward for our commander and his crew will be great."

"Then, all along, what you've been trying to tell me is ... is that ...
I'm to be--"

The remainder of Dollard's words melted into a jumble of gibberish.

"Exactly," confirmed the Tegurian, walking away from the vehicle. If
the creature's feline countenance showed a trace of conscience,
Dollard from his position within the rising cage could not discern
it--not that it particularly mattered in his last moment of sanity on
earth.

And it would puzzle Shir K'han for many years just why the last shrill
scream of the primate was: "Garth--_Garth, you did this to me_!"

       *       *       *       *       *






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Deepfreeze, by Robert Donald Locke

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEEPFREEZE ***

***** This file should be named 32531.txt or 32531.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/5/3/32531/

Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
