The Project Gutenberg EBook of Death of a B.E.M., by Berkeley Livingston

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Death of a B.E.M.

Author: Berkeley Livingston

Release Date: June 7, 2010 [EBook #32726]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEATH OF A B.E.M. ***




Produced by Greg Weeks and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net





    Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from Amazing Stories October 1948.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed.


[Illustration: The B. E. M. purred contentedly as the giant stroked his
eyeballs]

                        DEATH OF A B. E. M.

                        by BERKELEY LIVINGSTON

    The writer hated to create bug-eyed monsters, but they hated him
    too!



"Blast them!" the writer groaned in bitter accents. "How I hate those
B. E. M's.!"

"Hang them!" the artist yelled. "How I hate those B. E. M's.!"

"Darn them!" the B. E. M. moaned. "How I hate those humans!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The artist and the writer sat staring at each other in wordless
misery, their coffee untasted and their spirits at low ebb. Up above,
in the beehive that was the publishing house which gave them their
livelihood, the word had gone around. _B. E. M'S, B. E. M'S...._

Sadly, in accents forlorn, the writer said:

"Bug-eyed monsters! Ye gads! Bug-eyed monsters! Jack, old boy, do you
realize we're setting science-fiction back a hundred years?"

"I know just how you feel, Harry," the artist replied. "After all, we
too had presumed that we had been freed of these monsters. So back we
go to the drawing board, our minds tortured and twisted ..." He sighed
disconsolately.

"Oh, well," the writer sighed and blew out his breath. He stared
fixedly at his coffee until a something blue slipped into focus. His
glance traveled upward from the hem of the girl's apron, past the
lovely swell of her charms and on past the sweet throat, to the gay,
smiling face and sparkling eyes. Forgotten then were B. E. M's. for
both. Diane, the goddess of the restaurant corps of enchanting
waitresses, was at their side....

       *       *       *       *       *

Hiah-Leugh was having his eyeballs massaged. It was a delicate and
tedious operation for the one doing the massaging; not every Goman was
possessed of eight eyeballs. But Hiah-Leugh was not an ordinary Goman.
Not he! He was chief of all the Gomans, which meant he was head of all
the bug-eyed monsters on the whole of the planet of XYZ268PDQ.

The four-headed slave, one of the giants Hiah-Leugh's tribe had
captured on one of their forays into the terrible forest of Evil
Contractions, scratched himself with one of his six arms. He was quite
bored with this peaceful, though tedious pursuit the tribe of
Hiah-Leugh had given to him as his duties. Especially the massaging of
eyeballs. Of course it helped to have six arms. Ooh! His four heads
ranged themselves in a single line.

The slave had committed a sin.

There were three cardinal sins on the planet of XYZ268PDQ. Two of them
were unmentionable and the third was forgetting to massage all of the
eight eyeballs of Hiah-Leugh at one and the same time. If it were not
for the massage the giants of the planet would all live in peace. But
it took a man with six arms to do the job. In fact it was to the
regret of Hiah-Leugh that the giants did not have eight arms.

Now one of the eyelids was closing. In a second or two it would be
closed completely and once a single of the eight eyes closed the
others automatically followed suit. There was but a single thing to do
in this case. The giant did it.

He poked his finger into the drooping lid.

Hiah-Leugh awoke with a suddenness of shock and startled surprise. He
howled in pain then leaped from the chair, scuttling about the
room-of-massage on his twelve pairs of crablike legs at a great pace.

"Heavens to Betsy!" Hiah-Leugh screamed. "You _are_ the clumsiest
giant.... But what can a B. E. M. expect? Oh, well! You're excused. Go
and see if there are any children to frighten...."

There were four different expressions on the four heads. One showed
pleasure, and another, surprise and a third, gloom and the fourth was
blank completely. This head was the dumb one. It had but one
expression, blankness. The four heads bent and the great body bowed
low, and slowly, with great effort and with many bumpings into various
pieces of furniture, the giant bowed himself out of the massage
parlor.

Hiah-Leugh was left alone.

But not for long. Suddenly a whole section of the wall slid back
showing another room. This was the famous Gloating Chamber of
Hiah-Leugh. Here were brought all the victims the tribe captured. And
here it was that their chief was supposed to spend his time in
_Gloating_ over the tortures his torturers were supposed to spend
their time in devising. But business had been very bad lately. Not
only was there not a single victim in the Gloating Chamber, there was
not a single torturer available. Hiah-Leugh suddenly remembered.
Something about a picnic.... Then why had the wall slid back?

"_Hiah-Leugh! Hiah-Leugh!_" it was the clarion call of his ninth
concubine, the lovely and charming Sally Patica. But what in the name
of all that was unmentionable was she doing in the Gloating Chamber?
Of course she too could be _Gloating_!

He moved slowly toward the room, hoping against hope she was not in a
bad mood. The last time she had called in that tone of voice he had
suffered greatly. She had made him go without an eyeball massage for a
whole week....

       *       *       *       *       *

She was pacing back and forth on the long, raised platform. Hiah-Leugh
skirted the Iron Maiden, the Pallid Pulley, the Bronze Beater, the
Copper Conker, and Giant Mas-Mixer, which was a fake. Nothing was ever
mixed in it except the noxious weed Hiah-Leugh used in his pipe. At
the sound of his approach Sally stopped her pacing and fixed him with
a baleful glance out of eyes, four and five. Eyes, two and three were
busy seeing if her coiffure was right and eyes one, six and seven were
having their lids tweezed. After all, she had twelve pairs of legs
which were also used for hands. A heck of a lot could be done with so
many appendages.

She started in even before he quite reached her side:

"Where is everybody? Do I have to sit by myself every day? _Must_ you
have your eyeballs massaged _everyday_? Where are the torturers? Where
is everybody...?"

"I think there's a picnic scheduled for today, dear," Hiah-Leugh said.

"Why wasn't I told about it?" Sally demanded.

She had very probably _been_ told about it but knowing his ninth
concubine and the limits of her memory, she had very surely forgotten.

"Hiah-Leugh!" she broke in on him before he could frame a reply. "I'm
so terribly, terribly bored! There hasn't been a good torture since,
since ... when _was_ the last time there was a torture party?"

"The time Gin-Pad was caught stealing wokkerjabbies from his youngest
child," Hiah-Leugh said. "We put him in the Pallid Pulley and
stretched four of his legs until they were longer than the rest. And
to this day Gin-Pad walks like he's looking for something between his
forelegs...."

Six of Sally's seven pairs of eyes crossed suddenly, a sign she was
in thought. Hiah-Leugh had the wishful hope that the seventh pair
would cross. When that happened Sally would be ex-concubine. She would
also be ex-living but that didn't bother him. We all have to die
sometime, he thought. But why does she have to live so long? The
thought processes of Sally Patica wound their weary way and came to
their proper end. Life was boresome. And she had to think of something
to make it less so. She did.

"Y'know, Hiah," she said as she uncrossed her eyes, "I have an
idea...."

The chief of all the Gomans rolled all eight pairs of his eyes
ceiling-ward. Not another of her ideas. Oh no! Not that! The last time
she had one of her ideas it was for a treasure hunt, a treasure hunt
for a five-headed giant, despite Hiah-Leugh's insistence there were no
such beings. But she wanted one dead or alive. She got it, dead. What
Sally didn't know was that her mate gave orders to have one killed and
have a fifth head sewn on his shoulders.

Love, however, was as strong on planet XYZ268PDQ as it was on any
other planet, and as burdensome, and though Hiah-Leugh felt his heart
sink, he also knew he would give in to her wishes.

"... What do you think of this; bring some humans up here and we'll
run a torture party for our fiends?"

The male's jaw dropped, all three feet of it. This was even worse than
he had imagined. _Bring some humans up here_, she said. Had she any
idea of what that entailed? No. _NOO!_

He tried to reason with her:

"Darling. Wait. Don't be hasty. Let me explain. In the first place
have you ever met a human?"

"What difference does that make?" she pouted. "I've heard about them."

"But sweetheart," he went on in his pleading. "They're quite horrible.
They have but one head, and a single pair of arms and legs. They walk
upright and they can only bear _children_...."

This was new to her.

"... Children...?"

"Yes! And they're horrible things, really. Must be raised on pablum
and formulas and things like that. _Formulas._ Sounds mechanical. No,
Sally, my pet. I'll think of something else. Something which will not
require so much work...."

It was the wrong thing to say. He knew it the instant he said it.

"_Work!_" she yelped. "So that's what's troubling you. Too much work
you say. And what is occupying your time now? Have you even so much as
gone to the forest of Evil Contractions to capture a giant in the past
six months? Not you! You're satisfied with the way things are. You
wouldn't give a hang if I died of boredom. And when I ask for
something like a torture party, all you can say is, it's too much
work."

She started to cry. And after all she had seven pairs of eyes to shed
tears from. It was the biggest crying jag since the invasion from
space a millenium before when the invaders used tear gas....

Hiah-Leugh threw up all the arms he could spare and shouted:

"Okay. _OKAY!_ I'll call a meeting of the Council and we'll plan
something."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The situation is this," Hiah-Leugh said in opening the meeting, "we
must (get the) right to work and bring some humans up here."

The assembled B. E. M's. stopped looking bored at the words. They had
wondered why their chieftan had called the meeting. Now they knew. One
after the other they repeated the words as if they couldn't believe
their senses. Humans! Here on Planet XYZ268PDQ.

"But mighty chief," one of them said in objection. "Do you realize
what you're asking of us?"

Another said:

"How, when...?"

And a third asked:

"Who?"

"Our scientists, that's who," Hiah-Leugh answered. "What the heck we
got them for anyway? Seems all they do is sleep. Let them wake up and
to work."

But the oldest and wisest of them said:

"Why can't we be normal monsters and not act like we're expected to?
Isn't peace enough for us? Must we look for trouble?"

But their chieftan knew there was no turning back. Not if he wanted
peace. And knowing Sally Patica, he also knew there would be no peace
for him until he brought some humans up for torture.

"Let them construct space ships, terrible weapons of war, plagues and
all the necessary adjuncts to planetary invasion. Let them prepare for
the holocaust," Hiah-Leugh shouted, drowning out the others.

But it was the youngest, a mere youth of ten thousand years, upon
whose head but a single eye showed, who pointed out the path. He was
already bored with this meeting; besides, he had but fallen in love
the day before and wanted to get back to his amorata.

"Why all this fuss?" he asked. "What's more, we don't have scientists,
or mathematicians, or warriors. If the giants weren't so stupid we'd
never capture them. So let's stop this foolishness, this dreaming...."

That was the clue. After all, Hiah-Leugh hadn't been made chief of all
the Gomans for nothing. He proved his right to the leadership then.

"That's it!" he said. "The artists and writers of the human world have
made monsters of us, even though we can't do any of the things they
pretend we can. There is but a single attribute we possess which they
have said we do. We can project ourselves through space and time. So
let us to the Earth, and pluck one or two of these humans, and if I
may offer a suggestion, let us take a writer and artist from among
them and bring them back with us...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Harry Zmilch, writer-extraordinary of science-fiction, passed weary
fingers across a furrowed brow. A few feet to the rear of the desk at
which Zmilch labored stood the drawing board of Jack Gangreneyellow,
the artist. He too paused in his labors. At one and the same instant
they turned and regarded each other with solemn, staring eyes.

"No use, Joe," Harry said. "I can't do it. I've beaten my brain until
it refuses to function. I keep typing the same word over and over
again ... nuts ... nuts!... Bug-eyed monsters! There aren't such
things. My imagination just can't bring them to paper."

"Nor can mine to the board," Jack said.

"Still it's easier for you," Harry said. "All you've got to do is draw
a spider or huge bug of sorts, put a man and woman somewhere in the
drawing, make the woman appear as if she'd lost half her clothes in a
struggle, and you've got your piece. With me it's different."

Gangreneyellow snorted. This character, he thought, knew as little of
art and the difficulties of composition as the next guy.

"That's what you think," he retorted. "All you guys have to do is
_imagine_ a monster, have a man and woman placed in peril by the
monster's presence and you've got a story. With us it's different...."

Zmilch was half-turned, facing his friend across the width of one
shoulder. At the other's words, Zmilch turned all the way, got up from
his chair and strolled to the board on which a drawing in full color
was in its last stages. The drawing depicted a jungle scene. In the
foreground a man and woman stood in petrified stance, the man's arm
around the woman's shoulders. He was dressed for safari, pith helmet,
breeches, boots, open shirt and all. The woman looked like she'd spent
all her life in the jungle. She wore a leopard skin draped becomingly
to show the greater part of her charms. They were in semiprofile so
that the artist could depict the terror on their faces. And full in
the center of the drawing was an immense web stretched between the
boles of two jungle giants. Descending the web was a gigantic bug, or
spider, the artist had not detailed it too well.

"I thought you said you were finding it hard to do?" Zmilch asked.
"Why you've just about finished it."

Gangreneyellow, not to be outdone by his friend, walked over to the
other's desk and read aloud from the author's manuscript:

"'... Tom Brighteyes knew he hadn't the smallest chance of escaping.
The hordes of Micro Ambrosia were but a short way off. Ahead the Great
Swamp blocked any chances of escape for him and the Leopard Girl.
Their doom was sealed. He turned to her and said:

"Leopard Girl, I love you. I know. I'm from another world, a world
where men and women are not the same as this. Oh, I don't mean the
outward man and woman, but the inward. This is a savage world, a world
where both men and women have to struggle to exist against terrifying
odds. Horrible beasts, terrible insects, and natural phenomena make
this place a nightmare of existence. But here I found love and perhaps
death. I am not sorry I came."

"Tom Brighteyes," the girl turned to him and drew close. "I love you
too. I think I felt love from the first instant I saw you, backed
against a tree, with your puny weapons facing Hogo the Mogo, king of
all the swampland. Hogo the Mogo used to eat guys like you for
breakfast. Yet you drew a cigarette from a silver, enamel case upon
whose shining face a small chaste crest revealed your excellent taste
in such things, and while Hogo the Mogo slavered his hate in your
face, you drew a king's size, Exhilirato from the case and lit it with
a nonchalance that took my breath away...."

"What the heck are you complaining about?" Gangreneyellow asked.
"You're not doing so badly yourself."

"Yeah," said a strange voice. "Neither of you are doing badly.
Everything is just horrible, isn't it? The B. E. M's. march across
your pages and drawing boards with assembly-line facility. But have
either of you two had any feelings for us?"

The two men turned startled and terrified faces in the direction of
the mysterious voice. They could see nothing. Yet they could feel the
impalpable presence of some strange being in this very room with them.
Suddenly they became aware of a strange fog emanating from one wall.
It swept closer drawing them into its greasy folds. The voice seemed
to come from the very heart of this fog:

"... Well, perhaps things will be different soon...?"

Then the fog enveloped them completely, and their senses fled from
them....

       *       *       *       *       *

It was an odd sort of voice, mellow, fluid, yet holding accents of
anger in its even flow:

"Both of you complained you couldn't imagine this. So we brought you
here to prove its existence."

The writer and artist opened their eyes and the fog in which they'd
been bound was no longer there. They were in an immense chamber whose
vaulted ceiling extended for a full hundred feet in the air and seemed
suspended by slender strings, so tenuous were the web-like supports,
so fragile were the arches. They were standing before a tremendous
table whose semi-circular length might have been fifty feet from one
end to the other. And seated at the table were the most horrifying
monsters they had ever seen.

There was one, a huge beetle-like thing with two heads and a scaly
body and four pairs of pincers extending from the line of jaw. There
was, another, somewhat like a spider, but with dozens of legs. A third
was half-man, half alligator; a fourth was all snake, but with three
human heads; and another was all head without body. They were, the two
men realized, the most terrible _things_ they had ever imagined.

"... And there is the rub," the voice went on. "We are all as you have
imagined us. We exist only in your imagination."

"But how can that be?" Harry Zmilch asked. "We are here. We can see
you...."

"Only because your imaginations have been developed to such a degree,"
the voice replied. "Were you able to you would imagine us as something
altogether different. But since there are limits to your imagination
we are as we are. Now you must pay the penalty of that imagination.

"Torture will be the price we will exact from you...."

In an instant they were transported to the torture chamber. They saw
the horrible machines, the Copper Conker, the Pallid Pulley, and the
rest. And up on the platform they saw Sally Patica in all her glory,
her seven pairs of eyes watering so great was her excitement.

The monsters got in each other's way so hurried were they to tie and
make fast the two humans to the torture machines. And despite Harry's
and Jack's screams, they were bound, hand and foot and placed on each
of the machines in turn. But though the machines whirled and clanked
and ground and grunted and snarled their vicious ways the two humans
could not feel a single thing. Yet all about them the horrible
monsters screamed and shouted and laughed and danced and on the
platform Sally Patica shrieked with joy.

"A torture party at last," she screamed. "Oh, Hiah-Leugh, I'm so
happy. I'm the happiest monster in the whole world."

But down below, on the last of the machines in the assembly line,
Harry Zmilch thought as he was being whirled around, his head always
meeting a mace-like thing which was supposed to shear a slice from his
head at every turn but which felt like a feather, gosh! If I get back
alive what a story I could do on B. E. M's.

While on another instrument of torture, the Pallid Pulley, a device
supposed to tear the limbs slowly from a man, Jack Gangreneyellow
thought, man! what a cover I could make if ever I get out of this.

A strange thing happened then.

The machines stopped their whirring, the monsters stopped their
shriekings, and Jack and Harry stopped moving.

"Ohh, you nasty humans," Hiah-Leugh said. "Now you've spoiled our
party!"

"Why?" Harry asked.

"Because all this has been in vain. All you can see is that we're
monsters. And as such we have no feelings except for the giving of
pain, torture and death. Gosh, fellas! Can't you see these things
aren't real? We're the nicest monsters."

But all Harry and Jack could think of was that B. E. M's. were real.
Further, they were as terrible as anything they had ever imagined.

"Yes," Hiah-Leugh went on. "We are as you have imagined because we
live only in your imagination. And there we live as monsters. If in
the beginning you had given us other lines to read and other lives to
live, things might be as they really are. But no. The human race had
to be the master race. The insect world and the animal world could
only provide danger and conflict." He turned to the assembled monsters
and said, sadly, "Okay, boys. Turn 'em loose. Let them go back to
their typewriters and drawing boards...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Harry Zmilch shook his head savagely and looked at his friend. He was
doing the same.

"Got dizzy for a second," Harry said. "Gees! Have I got a swell ending
for my story...."

"Funny," Jack said. "I got dizzy too. And have I got a sweet idea for
a monster. All detail...."

Harry went back and typed:

'But Tom Brighteyes was no longer listening to the voice of his
beloved. Behind him were the advance guards of Hogo the Mogo. And
ahead the dreaded swamp. There was but one thing to do, go into the
sixth dimension, the fifth was already too perilous. Drawing the girl
within the embrace of his brawny arms, he closed his eyes and sent out
the powerful thought waves which would send him into the sixth
dimension....'

And at the end, he tacked on:

To be continued next month....





End of Project Gutenberg's Death of a B.E.M., by Berkeley Livingston

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEATH OF A B.E.M. ***

***** This file should be named 32726.txt or 32726.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/7/2/32726/

Produced by Greg Weeks and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
