The Project Gutenberg EBook of The First Day of Spring, by Mari Wolf

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The First Day of Spring

Author: Mari Wolf

Illustrator: Ed Emsh

Release Date: June 9, 2010 [EBook #32760]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FIRST DAY OF SPRING ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                        THE FIRST DAY OF SPRING

                             By Mari Wolf

                        Illustrated by Ed Emsh

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from IF Worlds of Science
Fiction June 1954. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: _Here is a love story of two young people who met under the
magic of festival time. One was Trina, whose world was a gentle
make-believe Earth. The other was Max, handsome spaceman, whose world
was the infinite universe of space...._]


The First Day of spring, the man at the weather tower had said, and
certainly it felt like spring, with the cool breeze blowing lightly
about her and a faint new clover smell borne in from the east.
Spring--that meant they would make the days longer now, and the nights
shorter, and they would warm the whole world until it was summer again.

[Illustration]

Trina laughed aloud at the thought of summer, with its picnics and
languid swims in the refilled lakes, with its music and the heavy scent
of flowers and the visitors in from space for the festival. She laughed,
and urged her horse faster, out of its ambling walk into a trot, a
canter, until the wind streamed about her, blowing back her hair,
bringing tears to her eyes as she rode homeward toward the eastern
horizon--the horizon that looked so far away but wasn't really.

"Trina!"

His voice was very close. And it was familiar, though for a moment she
couldn't imagine who it might be.

"Where are you?" She had reined the horse in abruptly and now looked
around her, in all directions, toward the north and south and east and
west, toward the farm houses of the neighboring village, toward the
light tower and the sun tower. She saw no one. No one else rode this
early in the day in the pasture part of the world.

"I'm up here, Trina."

She looked up then and saw him, hovering some thirty feet off the ground
in the ridiculous windmill-like craft he and his people used when they
visited the world.

"Oh, hello, Max." No wonder she had known the voice. Max Cramer, down
from space, down to the world, to see her. She knew, even before he
dropped his craft onto the grass beside her, that he had come to see
her. He couldn't have been on the world for more than the hour she'd
been riding.

"You're visiting us early this year, Max. It's not festival time for
three months yet."

"I know." He cut the power to the windmill blades, and they slowed,
becoming sharply visible. The horse snorted and backed away. Max smiled.
"This world is very--attractive."

His eyes caught hers, held them. She smiled back, wishing for the
hundredth time since last summer's festival that he were one of her
people, or at least a worldling, and not a man with the too white skin
of space.

"It may be attractive," she said. "But you always leave it soon enough."

He nodded. "It's too confining. It's all right, for a little while, but
then...."

"How can you say that?" She shook her head sadly. Already they were
arguing the same old unresolvable argument, and they had scarcely
greeted each other. After all his months in space they met with the same
words as they had parted. She looked past him, up and out, toward the
horizon that seemed so many miles away, toward the morning sun that
seemed to hang far, far off in the vaulted blue dome of the sky.

"How can you even think it? About this?"

His lips tightened. "About _this_," he repeated. "A horizon you could
ride to in five minutes. A world you could ride around in two hours. A
sun--you really call it a sun--that you could almost reach up and pluck
out of that sky of yours." He laughed. "Illusions. World of illusions."

"Well, what do you have? A ship--a tiny ship you can't get out of, with
walls you can see, all around you."

"Yes, Trina, with walls we can see."

He was still smiling, watching her, and she knew that he desired her.
And she desired him. But not the stars.

"You have nothing like this," she said, knowing it wouldn't do any good.
She looked past him at the light tower, one of the many that formed the
protective screen about her world, that made it seem great and convex, a
huge flattened sphere with the sun high above, and not the swift curving
steel ball that it actually was.

This was her world. It was like Earth, like the old Earth of the legends
of the time before the radiation wars. And even though her mind might
know the truth about the screens that refracted light and the atomic
pile that was her sun, her heart knew a more human truth. This was a
world. As it had been in the beginning. As it must be till the end--or
until they found a new Earth, somewhere, sometime.... Max sighed. "Yes,
you have your world, Trina. And it's a good one--the best of its kind
I've ever visited."

"Why don't you stay here then?"

A spaceman, she thought. With all the dozens of men in my world, why did
it have to be a spaceman? With all the visitors from New France and New
Chile and New Australia last festival, why did it have to be him?

"I have the stars, Trina."

"We do too!" Last festival, and the warm June night, heavy, druggedly
heavy with honeysuckle and magnolia, and the hidden music from the
pavillions. And Max Cramer, tall and strong boned and alien, holding her
in his arms, dancing her away from her people, out onto the terrace
above the little stream, beneath the full festival moon and the summer
stars, the safe, sane, well ordered constellations that their ancestors
had looked upon from Earth.

"My stars are real, Trina."

She shook her head, unable to argue with him. World-woman and spaceman,
and always different, with nothing in common between them, really,
except a brief forgetfulness at festival time.

"Come with me, Trina."

"No." She gathered up the reins and chucked at the horse and turned,
slowly, for the village.

"You wouldn't come--for me?"

"You wouldn't stay, would you?"

She heard the windmill blades whir again, and a rustling of wind, and
then he was beside her, skimming slowly along, barely off the ground,
making her horse snort nervously away.

"Trina, I shouldn't tell you this, not until we've met with your
councilmen. But I--I've got to."

He wasn't smiling now. There was a wild look about his face. She didn't
like it.

"Captain Bernard's with the council now, giving them the news. But I
wanted to see you first, to be the one who told you." He broke off,
shook his head. "Yet when I found you I couldn't say anything. I guess I
was afraid of what you'd answer...."

"What are you talking about?" She didn't want to look at him. It
embarrassed her somehow, seeing him so eager. "What do you want to tell
me?"

"About our last trip, Trina. We've found a world!"

She stared at him blankly, and his hand made a cutting gesture of
impatience. "Oh, not a world like this one! A planet, Trina. And it's
Earth type!"

She wheeled the horse about and stared at him. For a moment she felt
excitement rise inside of her too, and then she remembered the
generations of searching, and the false alarms, and the dozens of
barren, unfit planets that the spacemen colonized, planets like
ground-bound ships.

"Oh, Trina," Max cried, "This isn't like the others. It's a new Earth.
And there are already people there. From not long after the Exodus...."

"A new Earth?" she said. "I don't believe it."

The council wouldn't either, she thought. Not after all the other new
Earths, freezing cold or methane atmosphered or at best completely
waterless. This would be like the others. A spaceman's dream.

"You've got to believe me, Trina," Max said. "And you've got to help
make the others believe. Don't you see? You wouldn't live in space. I
wouldn't live here--on this. But there, on a real planet, on a real
Earth...."

Then suddenly she felt his excitement and it was a part of her, until
against all reason she wanted to believe in his mad dream of a world.
She laughed aloud as she caught up the reins and raced her horse
homeward, toward the long vista of the horizon and the capital village
beyond it, ten minutes gallop away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Max and Trina came together into the council hall and saw the two
groups, the roomful of worldmen and the half dozen spacemen, apart from
each other, arguing. The spacemen's eyes were angry.

"A world," Captain Bernard said bitterly, "there for your taking, and
you don't even want to look at it."

"How do we know what kind of world it is?" Councilman Elias leaned
forward on the divan. His voice was gentle, almost pitying. "You brought
no samples. No vegetation, no minerals...."

"Not even air samples," Aaron Gomez said softly. "Why?"

Bernard sighed. "We didn't want to wait," he said. "We wanted to get
back here, to tell you."

"It may be a paradise world to _you_," Elias said. "But to us...."

Max Cramer tightened his grip on Trina's hand. "The fools," he said.
"Talking and talking, and all the time this world drifts farther and
farther away."

"It takes so much power to change course," Trina said. "And besides, you
feel it. It makes you heavy."

She remembered the stories her father used to tell, about his own youth,
when he and Curt Elias had turned the world to go to a planet the
spaceman found. A planet with people--people who lived under glass
domes, or deep below the formaldehyde poisoned surface.

"You could be there in two weeks, easily, even at your world's speed,"
Captain Bernard said.

"And then we'd have to go out," Elias said. "Into space."

The worldmen nodded. The women looked at each other and nodded too. One
of the spacemen swore, graphically, and there was an embarrassed silence
as Trina's people pretended not to have heard.

"Oh, let's get out of here." The spaceman who had sworn swore again,
just as descriptively, and then grinned at the councilmen and their
aloof, blank faces. "They don't want our planet. All right. Maybe New
Chile...."

"Wait!" Trina said it without thinking, without intending to. She stood
speechless when the others turned to face her. All the others. Her
people and Max's. Curt Elias, leaning forward again, smiling at her.

"Yes, Trina?" the councilman said.

"Why don't we at least look at it? Maybe it is--what they say."

Expression came back to their faces then. They nodded at each other and
looked from her to Max Cramer and back again at her, and they smiled.
Festival time, their eyes said. Summer evenings, summer foolishness.

And festival time long behind them, but soon to come again.

"Your father went to space," Elias said. "We saw one of those worlds the
spacemen talk of."

"I know."

"He didn't like it."

"I know that too," she said, remembering his bitter words and the
nightmare times when her mother had had so much trouble comforting him,
and the winter evenings when he didn't want even to go outside and see
the familiar, Earth encircling stars.

He was dead now. Her mother was dead now. They were not here, to
disapprove, to join with Elias and the others.

They would have hated for her to go out there.

She faltered, the excitement Max had aroused in her dying away, and then
she thought of their argument, as old as their desire. She knew that if
she wanted him it would have to be away from the worlds.

"At least we could look," she said. "And the spacemen could bring up
samples. And maybe even some of the people for us to talk to."

Elias nodded. "It would be interesting," he said slowly, "to talk to
some new people. It's been so long."

"And we wouldn't even have to land," Aaron Gomez said, "if it didn't
look right."

The people turned to each other again and smiled happily. She knew that
they were thinking of the men and women they would see, and all the new
things to talk about.

"We might even invite some of them up for the festival," Elias said
slowly. "Providing they're--courteous." He frowned at the young spaceman
who had done the swearing, and then he looked back at Captain Bernard.
"And providing, of course, that we're not too far away by then."

"I don't think you will be," Bernard said. "I think you'll stay."

"I think so too," Max Cramer said, moving closer to Trina. "I hope so."

Elias stood up slowly and signalled that the council was dismissed. The
other people stood up also and moved toward the doors.

"We'd better see about changing the world's course," Aaron Gomez said.

No one objected. It was going to be done. Trina looked up at Max Cramer
and knew that she loved him. And wondered why she was afraid.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was ten days later that the world, New America, came into the
gravitational influence of the planet's solar system. The automatic
deflectors swung into functioning position, ready to change course,
slowly and imperceptibly, but enough to take the world around the system
and out into the freedom of space where it could wander on its random
course. But this time men shunted aside the automatic controls. Men
guided their homeland in, slowly now, toward the second planet from the
sun, the one that the spacemen had said was so like Earth.

"We'll see it tomorrow," Trina said. "They'll shut off part of the light
tower system then."

"Why don't they now?" Max Cramer asked her. It was just past sunset, and
the stars of a dozen generations ago were just beginning to wink into
view. He saw Venus, low on the horizon, and his lips tightened, and then
he looked up to where he knew the new sun must be.

There was only the crescent of Earth's moon.

"Now?" Trina said. "Why should they turn the screens off now? We're
still so far away. We wouldn't see anything."

"You'd see the sun," Max said. "It's quite bright, even from here. And
from close up, from where the planet is, it looks just about like
Earth's."

Trina nodded. "That's good," she said, looking over at the rose tints of
the afterglow. "It wouldn't seem right if it didn't."

A cow lowed in the distance, and nearer, the laughing voices of children
rode the evening breeze. Somewhere a dog barked. Somewhere else a woman
called her family home to supper. Old sounds. Older, literally, than
this world.

"What are the people like, out there?"

He looked at her face, eager and worried at the same time, and he
smiled. "You'll like them, Trina," he said. "They're like--well, they're
more like _this_ than anything else."

He gestured, vaguely, at the farmhouse lights ahead of them, at the slow
walking figures of the young couples out enjoying the warm spring
evening, at the old farmer leading his plow horse home along the path.

"They live in villages, not too different, from yours. And in cities.
And on farms."

"And yet, you like it there, don't you?" she said.

He nodded. "Yes, I like it there."

"But you don't like it here. Why?"

"If you don't understand by now, Trina, I can't explain."

They walked on. Night came swiftly, crowding the rose and purple tints
out of the western sky, closing in dark and cool and sweet smelling
about them. Ahead, a footbridge loomed up out of the shadows. There was
the sound of running water, and, on the bank not far from the bridge,
the low murmuring of a couple of late lingering fishermen.

"The people live out in the open, like this?" Trina said.

"Yes."

"Not underground? Not under a dome?"

"I've told you before that it's like Earth, Trina. About the same size,
even."

"_This_ is about the same size, too."

"Not really. It only looks that way."

The fishermen glanced up as they passed, and then bent down over their
lines again. Lucas Crossman, from Trina's town, and Jake Krakorian from
the southern hemisphere, up to visit his sister Lucienne, who had just
had twins....

Trina said hello to them as she passed, and found out that the twins
looked just like their mother, except for Grandfather Mueller's eyes,
and then she turned back to Max.

"Do people live all over the planet?"

"On most of it. The land sections, that is. Of course, up by the poles
it's too cold."

"But how do they know each other?"

He stopped walking and stared at her, not understanding for a minute.
Girl's laughter came from the bushes, and the soft urging voice of one
of the village boys. Max looked back at the fishermen and then down at
Trina and shook his head.

"They don't all know each other," he said. "They couldn't."

She thought of New Chile, where her cousin Isobelle was married last
year, and New India, which would follow them soon to the planet, because
Captain Bernard had been able to contact them by radio. She thought of
her people, her friends, and then she remembered the spacemen's far
flung ships and the homes they burrowed deep in the rock of inhospitable
worlds. She knew that he would never understand why she pitied the
people of this system.

"I suppose we'll see them soon," she said. "You're going to bring some
of them back up in your ship tomorrow, aren't you?"

He stood quietly, looking down at her. His face was shadowed in the
gathering night and his whole body was in shadow, tall and somehow alien
seeming there before her.

"Why wait for them to come here, Trina?" he said. "Come down with us, in
the ship, tomorrow. Come down and see for yourself what it's like."

She trembled. "No," she said.

And she thought of the ship, out away from the sky, not down on the
planet yet but hanging above it, with no atmosphere to break the
blackness, to soften the glare of the planet's sun, to shut out the
emptiness.

"You'd hardly know you weren't here, Trina. The air smells the same. And
the weight's almost the same too. Maybe a little lighter."

She nodded. "I know. If we land the world, I'll go out there. But not in
the ship."

"All right." He sighed and let go his grip on her shoulders and turned
to start walking back the way they had come, toward the town.

She thought suddenly of what he had just said, that she would hardly be
able to tell the difference.

"It can't be so much like this," she said. "Or you couldn't like it. No
matter what you say."

"Trina." His voice was harsh. "You've never been out in space, so you
couldn't understand. You just don't know what your world is like, from
outside, when you're coming in."

But she could picture it. A tiny planetoid, shining perhaps behind its
own screens, a small, drifting, lonely sphere of rock. She trembled
again. "I don't want to know," she said.

Somewhere in the meadows beyond the road there was laughter, a boy and a
girl laughing together, happy in the night. Trina's fingers tightened on
Max's hand and she pulled him around to face her and then clung to him,
trembling, feeling the nearness of him as she held up her face to be
kissed.

He held her to him. And slowly, the outside world of space faded, and
her world seemed big and solid and sure, and in his arms it was almost
like festival time again.

       *       *       *       *       *

At noon the next day the world slowed again and changed course, going
into an orbit around the planet, becoming a third moon, nearer to the
surface than the others.

The people, all of those who had followed their normal day-to-day life
even after New America came into the system, abandoned it at last. They
crowded near the television towers, waiting for the signal which would
open up some of the sky and show them the planet they circled, a great
green disk, twice the apparent diameter of the legendary Moon of Earth.

Max stood beside Trina in the crowd that pressed close about his ship.
He wore his spaceman's suit, and the helmet was in his hand. Soon he too
would be aboard with the others, going down to the planet.

"You're sure you won't come, Trina? We'll be down in a couple of hours."

"I'll wait until we land there. If we do."

Curt Elias came toward them through the crowd. When he saw Trina he
smiled and walked faster, almost briskly. It was strange to see him move
like a young and active man.

"If I were younger," he said, "I'd go down there." He smiled again and
pointed up at the zenith, where the blue was beginning to waver and fade
as the sky screens slipped away. "This brings back memories."

"You didn't like that other world," Trina said. "Not any more than
Father did."

"The air was bad there," Elias said.

The signal buzzer sounded again. The center screens came down. Above
them, outlined by the fuzzy halo of the still remaining sky, the black
of space stood forth, and the stars, and the great disk of the planet,
with its seas and continents and cloud masses and the shadow of night
creeping across it from the east.

"You see, Trina?" Max said softly.

The voices of the people rose, some alive with interest and others
anxious, fighting back the planet and the unfamiliar, too bright stars.
Trina clutched Max Cramer's hand, feeling again the eagerness of that
first day, when he had come to tell her of this world.

"You're right," she whispered. "It _is_ like Earth."

It was so much like the pictures, though of course the continents were
different, and the seas, and instead of one moon there were two. Earth.
A new Earth, there above them in the sky.

Elias let out his breath slowly. "Yes," he said. "It is. It's not a bit
like that world we visited. Not a bit."

"When you're down there it's even more like Earth," Max said. "And all
the way down you could watch it grow larger. It wouldn't be at all like
open space."

At the poles of the planet snow gleamed, and cloud masses drifted across
the equator. And the people looked, and pointed, their voices growing
loud with eagerness.

"Why don't we land the world now?" Trina cried. "Why wait for the ship
to bring people up here?"

"Landing the world would take a lot of power," Elias said. "It would be
foolish to do it unless we planned on staying for quite a while." He
sighed. "Though I would like to go down there. I'd like to see a really
Earth type planet."

He looked at Max, and Max smiled. "Well, why not?" he said.

Elias smiled too. "After all, I've been in space once. I'll go again."
He turned and pushed his way through the people.

Trina watched him go. Somehow he seemed a symbol to her. Old and stable,
he had been head of the council since she was a child. And he had gone
into space with her father....

"Please come, Trina," Max said. "There's nothing to be afraid of."

With both Max and Elias along, certainly it couldn't be too bad. Max was
right. There was nothing, really, to be afraid of. She smiled up at him.

"All right," she said. "I'll go."

And then she was walking with Max Cramer toward the ship and trying not
to remember her father crying in his sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship rose, and Trina cried out as she felt the heaviness wrench her
back against the cushions. Max reached over to her. She felt the needle
go into her arm again, and then sank back into the half sleep that he
had promised would last until they were ready to land.

When she awoke the planet was a disk no longer, but a great curving mass
beneath the ship, with the mountains and valleys and towns of its people
plainly visible. But the planet's sky still lay below, and around them,
in every direction except down, space stretched out, blacker than any
night on the world. The world. Trina moaned and closed her eyes, glad
she hadn't seen it, somewhere tiny and insignificant behind them.

Max heard her moan and reached toward her. She slept again, and woke
only when they were down and he was tugging the straps loose from around
her. She sat up, still numbed by the drug, still half asleep and unreal
feeling, and looked out about her at the planet's surface.

They were in a field of some sort of grain. Beyond the scorched land
where they had come down the tall cereal grasses rippled in the soft
wind, a great undulating sea of green, reaching out toward the far off
hills and the horizon. Cloud shadows drifted across the fields, and the
shadow of the ship reached out to meet them.

Trina rubbed her eyes in wonder.

"It _is_ like the world," she said. "Just like it."

For a moment she was sure that they were back on the world again, in
some momentarily unrecognized pasture, or perhaps on one of the sister
worlds. Then, looking along the row of hills to where they dropped away
into an extension of the plain, she saw that the horizon was a little
too far, and that the light shimmered differently, somehow, than on her
home. But it was such a little difference.

"Come on outside," Max Cramer said. "You'll be all right now."

She stood up and followed him. Elias was already at the airlock, moving
unsteadily and a little blankly, also still partly under the influence
of the narcotic.

The lock opened. Captain Bernard stepped out and went down the ladder to
the ground. The others followed him. Within a few minutes the ship stood
empty.

       *       *       *       *       *

Trina breathed the open air of the planet and felt the warmth on her
face and smelled the scent of grass and the elusive fragrance of alien
flowers. She heard the song of some strange, infinitely sweet throated
bird.

"It's--it's Earth," she whispered.

Voices, eager, calling voices, sang out in the distance. Then, little
cars rolled toward them through the field, mowing down the grass,
cutting themselves a path to the ship. People, men and women and
children, were calling greetings.

"This is where we landed before," Max said. "We told them we'd be back."

They were sunbronzed, country people, and except for their strange
clothing they might have been from any of the worlds. Even their
language was the same, though accented differently, with some of the
old, unused words, like those in the legends.

"You've brought your people?" the tall man who stood in the forefront
said to Captain Bernard.

"They're up there." Bernard pointed up at the sky, and the people looked
up. Trina looked up too. One of the planet's moons was almost full
overhead. But the world was invisible, shut off by the sky and the
clouds and the light of the earthlike sun.

"They'd like some of you to come visit their world," Bernard said. "If
any of you are willing."

The tall man nodded. "Everyone will want to go," he said. "Very few
ships ever land here. Until you came, it had been years."

"You'd go out in space?" Trina said incredulously.

Again the man nodded. "I was a spaceman once," he said. "All of us
MacGregors were." Then he sighed. "Sometimes even now I want to go out
again. But there've been no ships here, not for years."

Trina looked past him, at the women and the children, at the lush fields
and the little houses far in the distance. "You'd leave this?"

MacGregor shook his head. "No, of course not. Not to live in space
permanently. I'd always come back."

"It's a fine world to come back to," Max said, and he and the tall man
smiled at each other, as if they shared something that Trina couldn't
possibly understand.

"We might as well go into town," MacGregor said.

They walked over to the cars. MacGregor stopped beside one of them, his
hand on the door button.

"Here, let me drive." The girl stepped forward out of the crowd as she
spoke. She was tall, almost as tall as MacGregor, and she had the same
high cheekbones and the same laughter lines about her eyes.

"Not this time, Saari," MacGregor said. "This time you can entertain our
guests." He turned to Max and Trina and smiled. "My daughter." His face
was proud.

They climbed in, Trina wedging herself into the middle of the back seat
between Max and the planet girl. The car throbbed into motion, then
picked up speed, jolting a bit on the rough country road. The ground
rushed past and the fields rushed past and Trina leaned against Max and
shut her eyes against the dizzying speed. Here, close to the ground, so
close that they could feel every unevenness of its surface, it was far
worse than in the windmill like craft the spacemen used on the worlds.

"Don't you have cars?" Saari asked.

"No," Trina said. "We don't need them."

A car like this would rush all the way around the world in half an hour.
In a car like this one even the horizons wouldn't look right, rushing to
meet them. Here, though the horizons stayed the same, unmoving while the
fence posts and the farmhouses and the people flashed past.

"What do you use for transportation then?"

"We walk," Trina said, opening her eyes to look at the girl and then
closing them again. "Or we ride horses."

"Oh."

A few minutes later the car slowed, and Trina opened her eyes again.

"We're coming into town," Saari said.

They had climbed up over the brow of a small hill and were now dropping
down. At the bottom of the hill the houses clumped together, sparsely at
first, then more and more of them, so that the whole valley was filled
with buildings, and more buildings hugged the far slopes.

"There are so many of them," Trina whispered.

"Oh, no, Trina. This is just a small town."

"But the people--all those people...."

They crowded the streets, watching the cars come in, looking with open
curiosity at their alien visitors. Faces, a thousand faces, all
different and yet somehow all alike, blended together into a great
anonymous mass.

"There aren't half that many people on the whole world," Trina said.

Saari smiled. "Just wait till you see the city."

Trina shook her head and looked up at Max. He was smiling out at the
town, nodding to some men he apparently knew, with nothing but eagerness
in his face. He seemed a stranger. She looked around for Curt Elias, but
he was in one of the other cars cut off from them by the crowd. She
couldn't see him at all.

"Don't you like it?" Saari said.

"I liked it better where we landed."

Max turned and glanced down at her briefly, but his hand found hers and
held it, tightly, until her own relaxed. "If you want to, Trina, we can
live out there, in those fields."

For a moment she forgot the crowd and the endless faces as she looked up
at him. "Do you mean that, Max? We could really live out there?"

Where it was quiet, and the sun was the same, and the birds sang sweetly
just before harvest time, where she would have room to ride and plenty
of pasture for her favorite horse. Where she would have Max, there with
her, not out somewhere beyond the stars.

"Certainly we could live there," he said. "That's what I've been saying
all along."

"You could settle down here?"

He laughed. "Oh, I suppose I'd be out in space a good deal of the time,"
he said. "The ships will come here now, you know. But I'll always come
home, Trina. To this world. To you."

And suddenly it didn't matter that the girl beside her chuckled, nor
that there were too many people crowding around them, all talking at
once in their strangely accented voices. All that mattered was Max, and
this world, which was real after all, and a life that seemed like an
endless festival time before her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Evening came quickly, too quickly, with the sun dropping in an unnatural
plunge toward the horizon. Shadows crept out from the houses of the
town, reached across the narrow street and blended with the walls of the
houses opposite. The birds sang louder in the twilight, the notes of
their song drifting in from the nearby fields. And there was another
sound, that of the wind, not loud now but rising, swirling fingers of
dust in the street.

Trina sat in front of the town cafe with the planet girl, Saari. Max
Cramer was only a few feet away, but he paid no attention to her, and
little to Elias. He was too busy telling the planet people about space.

"Your man?" Saari asked.

"Yes," Trina said. "I guess so."

"You're lucky." Saari looked over at Max and sighed, and then she turned
back to Trina. "My father was a spaceman. He used to take my mother up,
when they were first married, when the ships were still running." She
sighed. "I remember the ships, a little. But it was such a long time
ago."

"I can't understand you people." Trina shook her head. "Leaving all of
this, just to go out in space."

The room was crowded, oppressively crowded. Outside, too many people
walked the shadowed streets. Too many voices babbled together. The
people of this planet must be a little mad, Trina thought, to live
cooped together as the spacemen lived, with all their world around them.

Saari sat watching her, and nodded. "You're different, aren't you? From
us, and from them too." She looked over at Max and Bernard and the
others, and then she looked at Curt Elias, who sat clenching and
unclenching his hands, saying nothing.

"Yes, we're different," Trina said.

Max Cramer's voice broke incisively into the silence that lay between
them then. "I don't see why," he said, "we didn't all know about this
world. Especially if more than one ship came here."

Saari's father laughed softly. "It's not so strange. The ships all
belonged to one clan. The MacGregors. And eventually all of them either
were lost in space somewhere or else grew tired of roaming around and
settled down. Here." He smiled again, and his high cheekboned face
leaned forward into the light. "Like me...."

Night. Cloudless, black, but hazed over with atmosphere and thus
familiar, not like the night of space. The two small moons, the stars in
unfamiliar places, and somewhere, a star that was her world. And Trina
sat and listened to the planet men talk, and to the spacemen among them
who could no longer be distinguished from the native born. Outside, in
the narrow street, wind murmured, skudding papers and brush before it,
vague shadows against the light houses. Wind, rising and moaning, the
sound coming in over the voices and the music from the cafe singers.

It was a stronger wind than ever blew on the world, even during the
winter, when the people had to stay inside and wish that Earth tradition
might be broken and good weather be had the year around.

"We'd better get back to the ship," Elias said.

They stopped talking and looked at him, and he looked down at his hands,
embarrassed. "They'll be worried about us at home."

"No, they won't," Max said. Then he saw the thin, blue-veined hands
trembling and the quiver not quite controlled in the wrinkled neck.
"Though perhaps we should start back...."

Trina let out her breath in relief. To be back in the ship, she thought,
with the needle and its forgetfulness, away from the noise and the crowd
and the nervousness brought on by the rising wind.

It would be better, of course, when they had their place in the country.
There it would be warm and homelike and quiet, with the farm animals
near by, and the weather shut out, boarded out and forgotten, the way it
was in winter on the world.

"You're coming with us?" Captain Bernard was saying.

"Yes, we're coming." Half a dozen of the men stood up and began pulling
on their long, awkward coats.

"It'll be good to get back in space again," MacGregor said. "For a
while." He smiled. "But I'm too old for a spaceman's life now."

"And I'm too old even for this," Elias said apologetically. "If we'd
found this planet the other time...." He sighed and shook his head and
looked out the window at the shadows that were people, bent forward,
walking into the wind. He sighed again. "I don't know. I just don't
know."

Saari got up and pulled on her wrap too. Then she walked over to one of
the other women, spoke to her a minute, and came back carrying a
quilted, rough fabricked coat. "Here, Trina, you'd better put this on.
It'll be cold out."

"Are you going with us?"

"Sure. Why not? Dad's talked enough about space. I might as well see
what it's like for myself."

Trina shook her head. But before she could speak, someone opened the
door and the cold breeze came in, hitting her in the face.

"Come on," Saari said. "It'll be warm in the car."

Somehow she was outside, following the others. The wind whipped her
hair, stung her eyes, tore at her legs. The coat kept it from her body,
but she couldn't protect her face, nor shut out the low moaning wail of
it through the trees and the housetops.

She groped her way into the car. The door slammed shut, and the wind
retreated, a little.

"Is it--is it often like that?"

Saari MacGregor looked at her. Max Cramer turned and looked at her, and
so did the others in the car. For a long moment no one said anything.
And then Saari said, "Why, this is _summer_, Trina."

"Summer?" She thought of the cereal grasses, rippling in the warm day.
They'd be whipping in the wind now, of course. The wind that was so much
stronger than any the world's machines ever made.

"You ought to be here in winter," Saari was saying. "It really blows
then. And there are the rainstorms, and snow...."

"Snow?" Trina said blankly.

"Certainly. A couple of feet of it, usually." Saari stopped talking and
looked at Trina, and surprise crept even farther into her face. "You
mean you don't have snow on your world?"

"Why, yes, we have snow. We have everything Earth had." But snow two
feet deep ... Trina shivered, thinking of winter on the world, and the
soft dusting of white on winter mornings, the beautiful powdery flakes
cool in the sunlight.

"They have about a sixteenth of an inch of it," Max said. "And even
that's more than some of the worlds have. It hardly ever even rains in
New California."

Saari turned away finally, and the others did too. The car started, the
sound of its motors shutting out the wind a little, and then they were
moving. Yet it was even more frightening, rushing over the roads in the
darkness, with the houses flashing past and the trees thrashing in the
wind and the people briefly seen and then left behind in the night.

The ship was ahead. The ship. Now even it seemed a safe, familiar place.

"This isn't like Earth after all," Trina said bitterly. "And it seemed
so beautiful at first."

Then she saw that Saari MacGregor was looking at her again, but this
time more in pity than in surprise.

"Not like Earth, Trina? You're wrong. We have a better climate than
Earth's. We never have blizzards, nor hurricanes, and it's never too
cold nor too hot, really."

"How can you say that?" Trina cried. "We've kept _our_ world like Earth.
Oh, maybe we've shortened winter a little, but still...."

Saari's voice was sad and gentle, as if she were explaining something to
a bewildered child. "My mother's ancestors came here only a few years
out from Earth," she said. "And do you know what they called this
planet? A paradise. A garden world."

"That's why they named it Eden," Max Cramer said.

Then they were at the ship, out of the car, running to the airlock, with
the grass lashing at their legs and the wind lashing at their faces and
the cold night air aflame suddenly in their lungs. And Trina couldn't
protest any longer, not with the world mad about her, not with Saari's
words ringing in her ears like the wind.

She saw them carry Curt Elias in, and then Max was helping her aboard,
and a moment later, finally, the airlock doors slipped shut and it was
quiet.

She held out her arm for the needle.

       *       *       *       *       *

When she awoke again it was morning. Morning on the world. They had
carried her to one of the divans in the council hall, one near a window
so that she could see the familiar fields of her homeland as soon as she
awoke. She rubbed her eyes and straightened and looked up at the others.
At Elias, still resting on another divan. At Captain Bernard. At Saari
and her father, and another man from the planet. At Max.

He looked at her, and then sighed and turned away, shaking his head.

"Are we--are we going back there?" Trina asked.

"No," Elias said. "The people are against it."

There was silence for a moment, and then Elias went on. "I'm against it.
I suppose that even if I'd been young I wouldn't have wanted to stay."
His eyes met Trina's, and there was pity in them.

"No," Max said. "You wouldn't have wanted to."

"And yet," Elias said, "I went down there. Trina went down there. Her
father and I both went out into space." He sighed. "The others wouldn't
even do that."

"You're not quite as bad, that's all," Max said bluntly. "But I don't
understand any of you. None of us ever has understood you. None of us
ever will."

Trina looked across at him. Her fingers knew every line of his face, but
now he was withdrawn, a stranger. "You're going back there, aren't you?"
she said. And when he nodded, she sighed. "We'll never understand you
either, I guess."

She remembered Saari's question of the night before, "Is he your man?"
and she realized that her answer had not been the truth. She knew now
that he had never been hers, not really, nor she his, that the woman who
would be his would be like Saari, eager and unafraid and laughing in the
wind, or looking out the ports at friendly stars.

Elias leaned forward on the divan and gestured toward the master weather
panel for their part of the village, the indicators that told what it
was like today and what it would be like tomorrow all over the world. "I
think I understand," he said. "I think I know what we did to our
environment, through the generations. But it doesn't do much good, just
knowing something."

"You'll never change," Max said.

"No, I don't think we will."

Captain Bernard got up, and MacGregor got up too. They looked at Max.
Slowly he turned his head and smiled at Trina, and then he too stood up.
"Want to come outside and talk, Trina?"

But there was nothing to say. Nothing she could do except break down and
cry in his arms and beg him not to leave her, beg him to spend the rest
of his life on a world she could never leave again.

"No," she said. "I guess not." And then, the memories rushed back, and
the music, and the little lane down by the stream where the magnolias
spread their web of fragrance. "It's--it's almost festival time, Max.
Will you be here for it?"

"I don't know, Trina."

It meant no; she knew that.

       *       *       *       *       *

The weeks slipped by, until it was summer on the world, until the
festival music sang through the villages and the festival flowers
bloomed and the festival lovers slipped off from the dances to walk
among them. There was a breeze, just enough to carry the mingled
fragrances and the mingled songs, just enough to touch the throat and
ruffle the hair and lie lightly between the lips of lovers.

Trina danced with Aaron Gomez, and remembered. And the wind seemed too
soft somehow, almost lifeless, with the air too sweet and cloying.

She wondered what a festival on the planet would be like.

Max, with Saari MacGregor, perhaps, laughing in the wind, running in the
chill of evening along some riverbank.

I could have gone with him, she thought. I could have gone....

But then the music swirled faster about them, the pulse of it pounding
in her ears, and Aaron swept her closer as they danced, spinning among
the people and the laughter, out toward the terrace, toward the trees
with leaves unstirring in the evening air. All was color and sound and
scent, all blended, hypnotically perfect, something infinitely precious
that she could never, never leave.

For it was summer on the world, and festival time again.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The First Day of Spring, by Mari Wolf

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FIRST DAY OF SPRING ***

***** This file should be named 32760.txt or 32760.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/7/6/32760/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
