The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Dark Goddess, by Richard Sharpe Shaver

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Dark Goddess

Author: Richard Sharpe Shaver

Release Date: June 12, 2010 [EBook #32784]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DARK GODDESS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                            The Dark Goddess

                          By Richard S. Shaver

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from Imagination Stories of
Science and Fantasy February 1953. Extensive research did not uncover
any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: Deep within her caverns the great mer-woman longed for death
to end her loneliness. But then came a voyager from space--a man--also
lonely....]


The black-emerald water swirled and broke in many silver gleamings. From
the misty center of the pool rose a vast but beautiful head. The long
dripping hair was not hair, but had a rippling life of its own. The
great lonely eyes and wide scarlet mouth were far more lovely than any
human's. The gleaming green shoulders and shapely long arms ended in
graceful webbed fingers. The red tipped breasts were proud, naked mounts
where beauty lived forever. The pillaring waist--the strong-arched hips
that did not divide into legs but into two great serpentine
drivers--ended in the wide tail fins of a fish.

The dark sea-scented lapping green water was circled by tiers of marble
seats, where many human people sat, their eyes upon the throne-seat into
which the tremendous female figure vaulted in one powerful thrust from
the water, as a tall wave uncurls effortlessly upon a golden beach.

The people bowed their heads and waited for her words, and she sat for a
long time looking on them sadly and somehow conveying that they had long
disappointed her. When her voice came, a great bell of meaning in the
sea-cavern, the humans began to weep, for they knew now in their hearts
they had failed her.

"My people, when the first of you came here I welcomed you. I was glad,
for I had been long alone. I never knew my own origin, my own race, and
the wisdom that I learned here in these caverns I was glad to give to
the young and ignorant voyagers that first came.

"An age ago, before any of you saw life, the work began. Today, this
home of ours is the fruit of long labor, of generations of men. We do
not like to give up our home, built to house our genius, to provide
everlasting protection against the unstable elements."

Her people, of several shapes and sizes, sourcing from an amalgam of
many human races of divergent strains from several near-forgotten
planets, all sighed together, like a little wind of sadness. And
something about that resignation of theirs seemed to anger the great
green mer-woman's eyes, but her voice did not reflect that anger. All
about them, below and above and on and on around the ancient bedrock of
the dark planet, tier on tier and level on level, their cavern city
stretched, a myriad homes for a myriad individuals.

"Today we face a contingency long foreseen. One which we hoped time
itself would change, through some new force changing the motions of
those bodies which circle ahead of us in space. It was foretold that in
time this planet in its free course through space would be attracted to
one or the other of two great suns which it will pass--or encounter. It
is most probable that our planet will find an orbit about one of those
suns ahead.

"Today that fate is no longer a prediction from an astronomer peering
into far space. It is a fact we face within short weeks, not in some far
future time. Already the surface ice is melting, seas forming above.
Already those who used to travel on the surface on their duties and
observations have been affected by the powerful radiations of those
suns. Those radiations when we are caught and held close will shorten
the life span to a hundredth of what it is now. You must go, and go now.
You must seek out a new home in the darkness of space where no sun
shines to cut your lives short."

A low sob broke from the almost silent people; then another. For years
they had known this would occur, but now there was no time left. It was
hard to think of leaving their ancient home. A low and youthful voice
asked, a clear ringing voice:

"And what of you, Alfreya? How can you accompany us? There has been no
ship built to hold the water you must have, no ship great enough to hold
your weight or lift it. What will you do?"

Her laugh was somehow one of vast relief, of humor of some mysterious
kind they could not fathom, of loneliness glad once more to be alone. "I
remain. This is my home, and if my knowledge is not great enough to
fight off the death the new sun brings then I will welcome death. It
could be, dear people, that I am weary of life."

The people could not hear her inward thought--"and of other lives, too
..."--but perhaps they felt it in their hearts.

The gigantic mer-creature dove then, from her throne into the green-dark
water, and left her people to their own devices. They saw her no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

The evacuation under way, the great ships lanced upward, one after
another. One every three seconds, for a month of earth time. And deep in
the water of her subterranean abode, it seemed to one great heart that
with each blast of sound as another great ship lifted, some weight
lifted from her heart.

The people of the Dark Goddess leaving their ancient home were very
numerous, and very sad. But few of them thought twice of their ancient
benefactress who had welcomed their ancestors, taught them, started them
abuilding in the rock their vast cavern homes. If she wished to remain
and die, that was her affair. She was not human. She was only a bit of
ancient history that had somehow remained alive.

All of the people of the dark planet of ice were included in that
migration. Not one remained to face death with their ancient Goddess.
The dark planet moved on into its new orbit, empty of life. Empty, that
is, except for one dark lonely heart. The mer-creature was too vast of
body for any ship to hold. Besides, she breathed water--and she did not
want to go. That was very strange. Very strange indeed. Of all that
myriad of departing voyagers, not one understood why their Dark Goddess
did not wish to go along. Which perhaps explains the mystery.

       *       *       *       *       *

An age passed. Or was it but a few years, a hundred or so? The mer-woman
did not count the years. The once free planet now circled the angry red
sun as a humble captive. On its now warm surface soil formed and plants
grew. Trees and animals began to move about, grow larger. It was a new
wild jungle planet, untouched by organized intelligence of any kind.

Deep down in the dim caverns, in her deepest lair, the mistress of an
age of magic slept, and waked, and slept again. And what she thought
about, and what she waited for, and what she did with the endless time
on her hands, were mysteries. Mysteries, at times, even to herself. But
her heart was sometimes very light, and glad to be alone, and at other
times, very sad, and very sure that mankind itself was not what she
would wish it to be. In searching her heart, Alfreya knew she was very
well rid of all that clutter in the caverns overhead.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the outer darkness of space came a tiny shape, speeding on and on
toward this sun and captive planet. It was going from nowhere to nowhere
at a terrific rate.

There are many shapes adrift in space, bits of rock, celestial debris
awash in the infinite oceans of ether. But this shape was not a rock. It
was of metal, and within it was a man named Peter McCarthy.

He was a very hungry man, and a very thirsty man, and when the great red
sun reached out and pulled his ship to itself, Pete in his fuel depleted
craft gave silent thanks that at last the end had come.

This would be a quick clean death in the flames, and Pete turned his
back on the sun and waited. But when he heard the air screaming about
his hull, he turned back to the bow view panes again.

"Well, I'll be damned!" cried Peter McCarthy. For a huge green planet
had pushed itself between him and the sun, and he did not like that at
all. "It's another of cruel Fate's devices to lengthen my torments!"
said Peter, and wept salt tears of weakness.

But his hands responded automatically. They thrust to the controls in
front of him and fired the long unused jets. A bit of fuel had collected
in the bottom of his tanks, and the jets blasted out, the ship lifted,
held itself upright on a pillar of sudden flame. Pete let it sink,
swiftly but gently, so that it fell hissing into the rolling green seas
without smashing to bits.

It sank down through the green waters like a stone, and McCarthy fell
weakly across the controls, and did not move a finger to change her
downward course. In truth, he hoped the ship would never come up again.
He was sick and tired of fighting against death.

Hours passed, and he slept, dreaming vague little dreams of eating and
drinking and flirting with the girls in the streets of Port Freedom. No
light came through the single hemisphere of transparence in front of his
nose, and he finally switched on the search-beam on the ship's nose.

"Stuck in the mud, I hope, jade that she is, and good for her, making me
die like this," Pete muttered, hating even the cracked crazy sound of
his own voice.

But the bowlight shafted ahead in brilliant clarity, piercing no ocean
depths or ooze or mud-flats, but glancing over the racing ripples of a
flowing river. Above the river surface the rocks came down, so low Pete
could hear them touch the hull, scrape, grind free, as their touch sent
the craft deeper in the hurrying water.

"Holy old Harry," growled McCarthy, rubbing at his slackened features.
"She fell right through the bottom of the sea into some subterranean
flow...." He yawned, and stretched a little, and cursed again. "Sure, I
couldn't expect her to do anything else, with my luck aboard her. There
were trees and sunlight, and water ... ah, water ... up there,
somewhere. I saw them, falling in, I did. Do I land where I can get
anything like water? Hell no! I crash right on down into this hole!" He
laughed a weak bitter laugh. Then he leaned back and began to sing
through cracked and bleeding lips:

    "_There's a hole in the bottom of the sea;
    There's a rock in a hole in the bottom of the sea;
    There's a crab on a rock in the hole in the bottom...._"

And he began to snore, having fallen asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some hours later, Peter McCarthy awoke, little refreshed because of the
raging thirst within him. With terrific effort he got to his feet,
noting that the ship was no longer moving.

The bow light was still burning, but it showed only a black wall of
smooth rock ahead. He switched it off, turning on the inside lights. He
staggered and cursed his weakness, but he made it to the airlock. With
feeble hands he tugged the little wheel around that pulled back the big
bars on the lock door.

"I'll get this over with, somehow. I'll just jump into the damned black
water and drink the damn river dry...."

The big outer lock door swung open, and he straightened, half expecting
a rush of icy water about his feet. But instead a warm and slightly
fragrant air drifted silently in, touched his tangled hair with idle and
somehow playful fingers.

"Still teasing me, you dirty old tramp!" growled the lean McCarthy, to
whom death had become a personal enemy, a figure he had both pursued and
fled from across a vast and empty space. A nemesis he could not escape,
and a fiend he could not quite catch.

He tugged loose a hand flash from the bracket by the lock, and staggered
out upon the smooth rock floor against which the ship had come to rest.
He snapped on the light, and then he stood gaping stupidly at the rock
walls in disbelief.

There were carvings, deep cut reliefs of utter beauty, twining vine
leaves, little figures half-human peeping from the leaves, lovely female
bodies as the flowers, incredibly lovely female heads in clusters as the
fruit.

"I've come to the Halls of Bacchus himself! Sure, I must be dead
already. No wonder I can't manage to die! But if that ain't the vine
itself, I've never been drunk!" Pete was half delirious, half in the
darkness of utter despair. But his Irish heart whispered to him, "Where
there's the vine there's wine," and he tottered off weakly into the dark
in search of it.

Somewhere afar off he heard a faint mysterious laugh, strangely
feminine, strangely friendly. He stopped, for ahead of him was
approaching a strange faint light. Closer it came, stalking toward him
fearfully, and to anyone else it would have seemed like an animated
clothing store dummy without the clothes. But the figure was feminine,
and it bore on its shoulder a tall oval vase-like vessel.

Pete straightened, and awe swept over him. In a low voice he heard
himself quoting--

    "_Came toward me through the dusk an angel-shape,
    Bearing on her shoulder a vessel ...
    And bid me taste of it. 'Twas the grape!_"

McCarthy's tongue twisted strangely in his mouth with a desirous life of
its own. The glowing angel-shape bent, and held the vessel to his lips,
and he drank long and deep. He wiped his mouth on the back of his hand,
and looked into the angel's glowing eyes.

As he looked the shape changed, subtly, adapting itself to his approval
like a dream might, and McCarthy whispered in an awed voice:

"Sure, lady, it is the grape right enough! Now tell me, are you the same
angel who gave drink to Omar? Or was she your sister, maybe?"

The glowing shape, growing second by second more sweetly curved to his
eye, unsmilingly replaced the vessel on her shoulder. Her voice was a
distant melody though her face was right before his eyes:

"I am but a messenger, dear welcome stranger. I bid you consider these
ancient halls your home. When you are well and strong, there will be
many things to talk of, for I have been long alone. Mine eyes are glad
with the sight of you."

McCarthy touched the naked angel's shoulder, and was surprised to find
it hard as steel. The glowing being did not seem surprised, and her arm
went about his shoulders, supporting him easily. After a minute of this
slow progress, she bent and picked McCarthy up in her arms as if he were
a babe. McCarthy murmured, "Sure angel, be this Heaven or Hell I'm
damned glad to get here."

       *       *       *       *       *

The voyager lay unconscious for many days. While he slept, dozens of the
weird "angels" hovered over him and what they poured down his throat and
what they injected into his veins he never knew. But when at last he
awakened he felt like the man he had been twenty years before, young in
heart and with a boundless happiness of well-being surging up in him
like a great spring of Omar's wine.

So waking, he sprang to his feet as he had used to do in the morning,
unable to wait to learn what new and curious thing the day would bear
for him. He looked about him with eyes that could not believe, and he
was a long time remembering how he had got here or where he was. And
when he did, it was to wonder why he had been so sunk in despair and so
ready to accept death.

One of the tall glowing shapes came and bowed low before him, and
McCarthy saw for an instant she was not a living woman at all, nor any
angel either!

"Why you're a robot kind of thing!" cried Pete, recoiling in sudden
distrust, for there was something revolting to him about a metal machine
masquerading as a human form.

The glowing woman-shape straightened proudly, and her long fiery eyes
narrowed a little, and her voice like distant tinkling magic murmured
softly, "Are you so very sure I am not alive, man from afar?"

McCarthy kept looking at her, and she changed before his very eyes, and
at last his wits awoke, so that he said gallantly, "Sure and you're as
beautiful a woman as ever I saw in my life! I'm owing you my life, and
I'd be the last would want to hurt your feelings. Nobody could be
sorrier for the mistake than I am."

Now whatever she was, he could no longer tell her from a living woman of
great beauty, for she had changed before his eyes from a metallic
monstrosity of glowing terror to a softly curved beauty that would have
graced the stage of any musical show, and her voice was far too good for
any show that Pete had ever listened to. As she moved closer to him, her
weirdly lovely voice whispered, "So my arms are hard as steel, man from
space?" and put her arms around him, and they were soft and firm and
fine arms to feel indeed.

Peter McCarthy, in sudden wonder, kissed the glowing weird lips of the
lovely thing, and the taste was different but far more lovely than any
woman's lips had ever been before.

"Now may God strike me, but I must be losing my wits," swore McCarthy,
"but I had thought you were made of steel for sure!"

Somewhere afar there came a music of laughter; he could not exactly hear
it but he felt it, as if the very walls were amused with him. It was a
powerful laugh, with an undertinkling to it, like a distant bell beneath
water, struck by a little stone so that it gave out both strong sounds
and little sounds.... A very beautiful laugh but very strange to hear.

With the sound of that laughter an awe came to McCarthy; he felt the
touch of some terrific magic, and he gave up trying to understand what
was happening to him.

"This is a strange place," he muttered, rubbing his chin. "A strange
place indeed. Could ye tell me, Miss Angel, what place this is and how I
can expect to get along here and why you're so good to a poor wanderer
like myself?"

The angel-shape--which second by second was getting to be more and more
the shape of ultimate beauty to his eye, as if she was learning the way
of it better and better right out of his mind, as if she was taking from
his own thinking the colors and the shapes and form and spirit that
would please him most--gave a laugh that was very like the strange great
tinkling sound from nowhere. Her voice was like sparkling water falling
on suspended crystals that rang musically, and she looked into his eyes
out of her own fiery strange eyes of terrible beauty.

"This is the best of all possible places you could have come to, and
your host is the best of all possible hosts and what more do you need to
know today, Peter McCarthy?"

For an instant a shadow passed over the strange glowing eyes of the
angel-shape, as if she remembered something she did not want to
remember, and he asked:

"What is that shadow of trouble, if this is so good a place for me?"

She answered him quickly as the shadow passed from her eyes: "That
shadow is the future, which will eventually get into even this
stronghold and end it all. But until that day comes, why you at least
can make merry. And I will help you...."

       *       *       *       *       *

So time passed. The visitor was very happy, living in a paradise of
wonder and sensation and love such as no man of earth ever had before.

The days of McCarthy's dreaming became many. There were always about him
several of the lovely glowing woman-shapes. Their forms were soft and
seemed to become almost too perfectly what he most wished they would
become, even as he looked and his mind tried to find imperfection, he
found only perfection. It was opposite from earth-style love, where one
ignores imperfections to think about the better parts and points of the
loved one ... where love is a slow schooling in seeing only the finest
facets of one's chosen. Here, he could find no imperfections to ignore,
and he had only to imagine some perfection to see it before him.

McCarthy could not consciously know that the heavenly looks of these
lovely things was magic, but he had his suspicions, and was always
turning around quickly to catch one of them off guard and looking like
something other than the featured actress in an extravagant and
too-undressed musical comedy. But he never succeeded, and always when he
turned quickly he heard the far faint tinkle of bell-like laughter, and
that tinkle was somehow not a tinkle, but a deep melodious chime so far
away that it was broken into smaller sound by the echo.

"Somebody gets a big kick out of me," grinned McCarthy, and forgot about
it. They waited on him hand and foot; every whim that came into his mind
they gratified as soon as it was born. Food of the most exotic kind was
set before him whenever he was hungry. When he wanted love, they gave
him from a boundless store; though not love such as he knew about. It
was instead an ecstacy of an intense and vibrant kind, an overwhelming
flame that hovered always about the sweetly glowing bodies of them, a
flame that was not anything but the essence of all desires, distilled
and intensified by some strong but subtle magic.

But after a while it was his sleeping that McCarthy liked the most. For
then dreams came visibly into his chambers, and before his mind's eye
waved immense phantasmagorial adventures. When one of these adventures
caught his fancy it picked him up like a womanish whirlwind of strangely
soft dark arms and he became for the time of his sleep a God, to whom
all things were possible and each tiniest part of these dreams was like
a flower of unearthly and utterly exquisite beauty.

It was nearly a year by McCarthy's careless reckoning before he
determined what was true and what was mere pleasant fantasy in his life.

That was a black day.

He awoke to find his chambers empty. No glowing heavenly shapes to wash
him and dress him and caress him. No sweet laughter in his ears, and no
light anywhere but what he made with his almost depleted hand flash.

       *       *       *       *       *

Like a man bereft of reason he rushed away through the endless vaulted
cavern halls, seeking, seeking his loved playmates, his glowing
angel-shapes. And his heart seemed about to burst in his breast with the
terrible sense of loss, like a man who has just lost his family ... and
who thinks he will find them alive if he runs fast enough.

After an endless time of running and walking and panting his hand flash
went dark in his hand and he flung it away. He went on like a madman,
blind, caroming off the carved stone walls and on and on until at last
he sank to the floor in exhaustion.

Lying there, in despair as dark as the utter darkness of the caverns,
his eyes began to note after a time a soft glow spreading out before
him. Still longer he lay, looking, and his eyes began to see that it was
water glowing, rippling softly away before his eyes. The glow
strengthened little by little, until he could make out a vast
throne-like chair afar above the glowing water.

For a still longer time McCarthy did not believe his eyes, for on the
throne was a mighty female figure of dark green flesh.

Her long dripping hair was not hair, but writhed softly about her
beautiful head with a life of its own. The great eyes and wide scarlet
mouth were not exactly human, but they were very attractive and kind and
somehow lonely with a weight of wisdom. The gleaming shoulders and
tremendous long arms ended in wide-webbed fingers. The red tipped
breasts, the pillaring waist, the proud arched hips that did not divide
into legs but into two great serpentine drivers finned and scaled like
the tails of beautiful fish ... were to McCarthy after all his dreams
but figments of his overworked imagination.

Peter McCarthy lay silently looking on this new phantasm, wondering if
he were still sane, and indeed, if he were still alive, or if this were
perhaps a place into which a soul wandered after death--where nothing
was as a man expected it to be. And in the midst of his wondering the
great lovely sea-woman's head turned. Her eyes sought him out and that
unearthly music of her voice murmured--a sound like the surf breaking on
ringing rocks far off.

"You had to know the truth some time, Peter McCarthy."

Pete struggled to his feet and found his strength flowing back. And
being the kind of man he was he plunged into the dark pool of cool water
and swam toward the great throne. It was much farther than it seemed,
and when at last he got there he found the throne was as tall as an
office building in the great cities of earth, and the lovely mer-woman's
body as mighty as a Titan of earth's misty dawn. Big she was, and just
as beautiful close up as from the far shore of her pool.

[Illustration]

McCarthy sat on the first step of the throne, at her wide fin that was
not a foot at all, and looked up into her lovely tragic eyes, his heart
pounding in his breast.

"Sure, sea-mother, I know now! You are the only living creature in all
these vast halls, and all the lovely things you have been doing to
entertain me you do because you are lonely. Has it been fun to play with
me like a toy, sorceress?"

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the great finned hands of her fanned the air in a gesture of
negation. "Not too much fun, McCarthy. But interesting, for I have never
met a man of your race, so child-like and simple and so easily made to
believe in my magic. And have you not enjoyed this year with me?"

"It is not that, sorceress. It is that my heart is snared here, like an
ape in a cage and will never again be free. What kind of life can please
me now? After this life you have shown me, how can I ever want to
breathe common air again?"

Her laugh was like music under water, like bells ringing in the deeps of
the sea. Her hand touched him lightly, and the touch was like lightning
from heaven striking him with eternal love. And the thunder of that
lightning pealed through all his being, thunder on thunder of vast
meaning, and there was nothing from his dreams to compare with the
beauty and the wonder of the simple touch of her hand.

McCarthy turned his face up to the vast woman-shape above him, the
wonder of her touch shining from his eyes, so that she laughed again as
she saw the effect upon him.

"If there had been more like you among my people, I would not be here
alone," she murmured, like distant sorrowful music above him, her voice
that was so much more than a voice. "But my people were sated with
wonder and tired of love and weary with having too much. They went off
and left me because I said I wanted to remain--to die. And my heart was
sad, but something in me was very glad to be alone. Now I am glad that
you are here! But I am afraid that there is no way you can leave now."

McCarthy stretched out at the foot of her throne, a grin on his square
Irish face. "So, I can't get away again! Now that's the sorriest word
I've heard for years. Sure I'm the unluckiest mortal that ever was
born."

The dark goddess laughed again, and there was something of a sweet child
in the bell-tones of her laugh, that died away in soft and softer echoes
in the endless dark about them.

... Something of a shy child, who had never been loved, and found the
idea infinitely amusing. Her voice became softer and more beautiful
still, and McCarthy was endlessly happy to hear that laugh, for it said
so much stronger than any words could--"You are welcome here, you sad
Irishman." And her voice said, "And do you want your angel-shapes and
their wine back again, or do you want some other thing I might create
for you out of these forgotten energy converters?"

McCarthy grinned contentedly, and rubbed his roughened face against the
smooth calf of her leg beside him. "D'ye think I should shave, goddess?"

The great beautiful face bent over and examined his Irish countenance,
the rugged features and twinkling blue eyes and the red hearty cheeks of
him. "Why, man-child, you are quite good-looking as you are!"

"And as for them angels and their wine," added McCarthy, "don't you know
one look at you is worth a thousand angels? Can't you see in my mind and
know ... I forget, ye've been doing that for one solid year. Sure, you
green angel you, why should a man want any other shape or sound or wine
than yourself?"

       *       *       *       *       *

So it was that some years later a great ship burst up from the seas of
the lonely planet and on the terrific wings of a mysterious power shot
silently away into the trackless void. And at the helm was a red-cheeked
Irishman and the rest of the vast ship was filled with water and the
goddess herself. All of it, that is, except the part where the three
little McCarthys came out of the water to play with their dad every day.





End of Project Gutenberg's The Dark Goddess, by Richard Sharpe Shaver

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DARK GODDESS ***

***** This file should be named 32784.txt or 32784.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/7/8/32784/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
