The Project Gutenberg EBook of Thy Rocks and Rills, by Robert Ernest Gilbert

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Thy Rocks and Rills

Author: Robert Ernest Gilbert

Illustrator: Tom  Beecham

Release Date: June 18, 2010 [EBook #32878]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THY ROCKS AND RILLS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         THY ROCKS AND RILLS

                       By Robert Ernest Gilbert

                      Illustrated by Tom Beecham

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from If Worlds of Science
Fiction September 1953. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence
that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

[Sidenote: _They were out of place in the Manly Age--Stonecypher, a man
who loved animals; Moe, a bull who hated men. Together, they marched to
inevitably similar destinies...._]




PRELUDE


M. Stonecypher lifted his reed sun hat with the square brim, and used a
red handkerchief to absorb the perspiration streaking his forehead. He
said, "The pup'll make a good guard, 'especially for thrill parties."

L. Dan's golden curls flickered in July 1 sunlight. The puppy growled
when Dan extended a gloved hand. "I don't want a guard," the hobbyist
said. "I want him for a dogfight."

A startling bellow rattled the windows of the dog house and spilled in
deafening waves across the yard. Dan whirled, clutching his staff. Light
glinted on his plastic cuirass and danced on his red nylon tights. His
flabby face turned white. "What--" he panted.

Stonecypher concealed a smile behind a long corded hand and said, "Just
the bull. Serenades us sometimes."

Dan circled the dog house. Stonecypher followed with a forefinger
pressed to thin lips. In the paddock, the bull's head moved up and down.
It might or might not have been a nod.

The crest of long red and blue-black hairs on the bull's neck and
shoulders created an illusion of purple, but the rest of the animal
matched the black of a duelmaster's tam. Behind large eyes encircled by
a white band, his skull bulged in a swelling dome, making the distance
between his short horns seem much too great.

"He's purple!" Dan gasped. "Why in the Government don't you put him in
the ring?"

Stonecypher gestured toward the choppy surface of Kings Lake, nine
hundred feet below. He said, "Coincidence. I make out the ringmaster's
barge just leavin' Highland Pier."

"You're selling him?"

"Yeah. If they take 'im. I'd like to see 'im in the ring on Dependence
Day."

Glancing at the watch embedded in the left pectoral of his half-armor,
Dan said, "That would be a show! I'll take the dog and fly. I've a duel
in Highland Park at 11:46."

"The pup's not for sale."

"Not for sale!" Dan yelled. "You told--"

"Thought you wanted a guard. I don't sell for dogfights."

A sound like "Goood!" came from the paddocked bull.

Dan opened his mouth wide. Whatever he intended to say died without
vocalization, for Catriona came driving the mule team up through the
apple orchard. The almost identical mules had sorrel noses, gray necks,
buckskin flanks, and black and white pinto backs and haunches. "Great
Government!" Dan swore. "This place is worse than a museum!"

"Appaloosa mules," Stonecypher said.

Catriona jumped from the seat of the mowing machine. Dan stared.
Compared to the standard woman of the Manly Age who, by dieting,
posturing, and exercise from childhood, transformed herself into a
small, thin, dominated creature, Catriona constituted a separate
species. She was taller than Dan, slightly plump, and her hair could
have been classed as either red or blonde. Green overalls became her
better than they did Stonecypher. With no trace of a smile on face or in
voice, Stonecypher said, "L. Dan, meet Catriona."

       *       *       *       *       *

Like a hypnopath's victim, Dan walked to Catriona. He looked up at her
and whispered, but too loudly. Stonecypher heard. His hands clamped on
the hobbyist's neck and jerked. Dan smashed in the grass with sufficient
force to loosen the snaps of his armor. He rolled to his feet and swung
his staff.

Stonecypher's left hand snatched the staff. His right fist collided with
Dan's square jaw. Glaring down at the hobbyist, Stonecypher gripped the
staff and rotated thick wrists outward. The tough plastic popped when it
broke.

Scuttling backward, Dan regained his feet. "You inhuman brute!" he
growled. "I intended to pay for her!"

"My wife's not for sale either," Stonecypher said. "You know how to
fly."

Dan thrust out a coated tongue and made a noise with it. In a memorized
singsong, he declared, "I challenge you to a duel, in accordance with
the laws of the Government, to be fought in the nearest duelpen at the
earliest possible hour."

"Stony, don't!" Catriona protested. "He's not wo'th it!"

Stonecypher smiled at her. "Have to follow the law," he said. He
extended his tongue, blurted, and announced, "As required by the
Government, I accept your challenge."

"We'll record it!" Dan snapped. He stalked toward the green and gold
butterflier parked in a field of seedling Sudan grass. Horns rattled on
the concrete rails of the paddock.

"Burstaard!" the bull bellowed.

Dan shied and trampled young grass under sandaled feet. His loosened
cuirass clattered rhythmically. Raising the canopy of the butterflier,
he slid out the radioak and started typing. Stonecypher and Catriona
approached the hobbyist. Catriona said, "This is cowa'dly! Stony nevah
fought a duel in his life. He won't have a chance!"

"You'll see me soon then, woman. Where'd you get all that equipment? You
look like something in a circus."

"Ah used to be in a cahnival," Catriona said. She kept Stonecypher in
place with a plump arm across his chest. "That's wheah you belong," she
told Dan. "That's all you'ah good fo'."

"Watch how you address a man, woman," Dan snarled, "or you'll end in the
duelpen, too."

Stonecypher snatched the sheet from the typer. The request read:

     Duelmaster R. Smith, Watauga Duelpen, Highland Park, Tennessee.
     L. Dan challenges M. Stonecypher. Cause: Interference with
     basic amatory rights. July 1. 11:21 amest.

Stonecypher said, "The cause is a lie. You got no rights with Catriona.
Why didn't you tell 'em it's because I knocked you ears-over-endways,
and you're scared to fight without a gun?"

Dan shoved the request into the slot and pulled the switch. "I'll kill
you," he promised.

While the request was transmitted by radiophotography, minutes passed,
bare of further insults. Catriona and Stonecypher stood near the
concrete fence enclosing the rolling top of Bays Mountain. Interminable
labor had converted 650 acres of the top to arable land. Below the
couple, the steep side of the mountain, denuded of timber, dangerously
eroded, and scarred by limestone quarries, fell to the ragged shore of
Kings Lake. Two miles of water agitated by many boats separated the
shore and the peninsula, which resembled a wrinkled dragon with
underslung lower jaw distended. The town of Highland Park clung to the
jutting land, and the Highland Bullring appeared as a white dot more
than four miles from where Catriona and Stonecypher stood. The
ringmaster's barge was a red rectangle skirting Russel Chapel Island.

Dan pulled the answer from the buzzing radioak. He walked over and held
the radiophoto an inch from Stonecypher's long nose. It read:

     Request OK. Time: July 4. 3:47 pmest.

Two attached permits granted each duelist the privilege of carrying one
handgun with a capacity of not more than ten cartridges of not less
than .32 caliber. Below the permits appeared an additional message:

     L. Dan due at Watauga Duelpen. 11:46 amest. For duel with J.
     George.

"Government and Taxes!" Dan cursed. Throwing Stonecypher's permit, he
leaped into the green and gold butterflier and slammed the canopy. The
four wings of the semi-ornithopter blurred with motion, lifting the
craft into the sky. The forward wings locked with negative dihedral, the
rear wings angled to form a ruddevator, and the five-bladed propeller
whined, driving the butterflier in a shallow dive for the peninsula.

       *       *       *       *       *

Catriona said, "Ah hope he's late, and they shoot him. Ah knew you'd
finally have to fight, but--"

"You keep out of it next time," said Stonecypher. "I happen to know that
feller's killed two women in the pen. He don't care for nothin'. Oughta
known better than to let him come here. He made out like he wanted a
guard dog, and I thought--"

"Nevah mind, Stony. Ah've got to help you. You nevah even fiahed a gun."

"Later, Cat. The ringmaster may want to stay for dinner. I'll look after
the mules."

Catriona touched Stonecypher's cheek and went to the house. Stonecypher
unharnessed the Appaloosa mules. While they rolled, he took, from an
empty hay rack, a rubber-tipped spear and a tattered cloth dummy. The
dummy's single arm terminated in a red flag.

Stonecypher concealed spear and dummy beneath the floor of the dog
house. Going to the paddock, he patted the bull between the horns, which
had been filed to a needle point. "Still goin' through with it?"
Stonecypher asked.

"Yaaaa," the bull lowed. "Yaooo kuhl Daan. Err'll kuhl uhhh kuhlerrs."

"All right, Moe. I'll kill Dan, and you kill the killers." Stonecypher
stroked the massive hemisphere of the bull's jaw. "Goodbye, Moe."

"Gooodba," the bull echoed. He lowered his nose to the shelled corn
seasoned with molasses, the rolled oats, and the ground barley in the
trough.

Stonecypher walked down the road to the staircase of stone that dammed
the old Kingsport Reservoir, abandoned long before Kings Lake covered
the city. A red electric truck crawled up the steep road hewn from the
slope of the gap formed by Dolan Branch. When the truck had crossed the
bridge below the buttressed dam, Stonecypher spoke to the fat and
sweltering man seated beside the driver. "I'm M. Stonecypher. Proud for
you to visit my farm. Dinner's ready up at the house."

"No, no time," smiled the fat man, displaying stainless steel teeth.
"Only time to see the bull. I thought we weren't going to make that
grade! Why don't those scientists develop synthetic elements, so that we
can have atomic power again? This radio-electric is so unreliable! I am
Ringmaster A. Oswell, naturally. This heat is excruciating! I had hoped
it would be cooler up here, but something seems to have happened to our
inland-oceanic climate this summer. Lead us to the bull, Stonecypher!"

Clinging to the slatted truck bed, Stonecypher directed the stoic driver
to the paddock. The electric motor rattled and stopped, and Ringmaster
Oswell wheezed and squirmed from the cab. The ringmaster wore a vaguely
Arabic costume, in all variations of red.

The bull lumbered bellowing around the fence. His horns raked white
gashes in the beech tree forming one corner. He tossed the feed trough
to splintering destruction.

"Magnificent!" Oswell gasped. Then the ringmaster frowned. "But he looks
almost purple. His horns are rather short."

"Stay back from the fence!" Stonecypher warned. "He's real wide between
the horns, ringmaster. I reckon the spread'll match up to standard. Same
stock my grandfather used to sell Boon Bullring before the water.
Wouldn't sell 'im, only the tenants are scared to come about the house."

Oswell fingered his balloon neck and mumbled, "But he's odd. That long
hair on his neck ... I don't know...."

The bull's horns lifted the mineral feeder from the center of the
paddock. The box rotated over the rails and crashed in a cloud of
floured oyster shells and phosphate salt at the ringmaster's feet.

Oswell took cover behind the truck driver, who said, "Fergus'd like him.
Jeeze! Remember dat brown and white spotted one he kilt last year on
Forrest Day? Da crowd like ta never stopt yelling!"

Ringmaster Oswell retreated farther, as, under the bull's onslaught, a
piece of concrete broke from the top rail, exposing the reinforcing rod
within. "Fergus does like strange ones," he admitted.

Stonecypher said, "Don't let the mane bother you. There's one of these
long-haired Scotch cows in his ancestors. He's not really purple. Just
the way the light hits 'im."

Oswell chewed lacquered fingernails with steel dentures. His bloodshot
eyes studied the spotted and speckled Appaloosa mules chasing around the
pasture, but the sight failed to register on his brain. "The crowd likes
a good show on Dependence Day," he proclaimed. "I considered trying a
fat Aberdeen Angus with artificial horns for laughs, but this may do as
well. I must find some shade! I'll take him, Stonecypher, if fifteen
hundred in gold is agreeable."

"Sold," Stonecypher said. The word cracked in the middle.

While the ringmaster, muttering about trying bulldogs sometime, retired
to the narrow shadow of the dog house, the driver backed the truck to
the ramp. Stonecypher opened the gate and waved his handkerchief. The
bull charged into the truck, and the driver locked the heavy doors.

From within his red burnoose, Oswell produced a clinking bag. "Fifteen
hundred," he said. From other recesses, he withdrew documents,
notebooks, and a pencil. He said, "Here is a pass for you and one for
any woman-subject you may wish to bring. You'll want to see your first
bull on Dependence Day! And here is the standard release absolving you
of any damage the bull may do. Oh, yes! His name and number?"

"Number?"

"Yes, his brand."

"Not branded. Make it Number 1. Name's Moe."

Oswell chuckled. "Moe. Very good! Most breeders name them things like
Chainlightning and Thunderbird. Your GE number?"

"I'm not a Government Employee."

"You're not?" Oswell wheezed. "How unusual! Your colors? He'll wear your
colors in his shoulder."

"Yeah. Black."

"Black?"

"Dead black."

Oswell, scribbling, managed a faint smile. "Sorry I can't accept that
invitation to lunch." He struggled into the truck. "Hope this bull is
brave in the ring. Nice antique old place you have here! I don't see a
feed tower, but you surely don't use pasture--" The ringmaster's babble
passed down the road with the truck.

Stonecypher watched the vehicle descend the dangerous grade. He lifted
his square hat from his black hair, dropped it on the ground, and
crushed the reeds under a booted foot.

The temporary house, a squat cubical structure, stood at the end of a
spruce-lined path beside the ruin that a thrill party had made of the
century-old farm house. The plastic screen squeaked when Stonecypher
opened it. He stood on the white floor of the robot kitchen and dug a
fifty dollar gold piece from the bag Oswell had given him. Glaring at
the head of the woman with Liberty inscribed on her crown, he muttered,
"Thirty pieces of gold."

Catriona called, "Oswell's lucky he couldn't stay foah dinnah! Ah had
the potassium cyanide all ready."

Stonecypher passed through the diner door into a room containing more
yellowed history books and agricultural pamphlets than eating utensils.
Catriona waited by the table. She held a large revolver in her right
hand.




INTERMEZZO


Stonecypher stood on Bay Knob, near the ruins of the old FM transmitter
station, looking down at the Tennessee Lakes. Catriona sat behind him
and held the revolver on her thigh. Stonecypher said, "I never see it
but I wonder how it looked before the water."

Before him, North Fork, an arm of Kings Lake, twisted across the
Virginia line four and one-half miles away, while to Stonecypher's
right, Boone Lake sparkled like a gigantic, badly drawn V. He did not
look toward Surgoinsville Dam securing Kings Lake far to the west.

The Tennessee Lakes were born in 1918 when Wilson Dam spanned the
Tennessee River at Muscle Shoals, Alabama; but their growth was retarded
for fifteen years, until an Act of Congress injected them with vitamins.
Then the mile-long bastions of concrete crawled between the ridges.
Norris, Wheeler, Pickwick Landing, Guntersville, Watts Bar, Kentucky,
Cherokee, Fort Henry, Boone, Sevier, Surgoinsville--almost innumerable
dams blocked the rivers. The rivers stopped and overflowed. The creeks
swelled into rivers.

Congressional Committees investigated, the Supreme Court tested the dams
against the Constitution, ethnologists and archeologists hastily checked
for Indian relics; and the dams, infused with youthful vigor, matured.
Beginning with Norris, which backed up the Clinch and Powell Rivers to
inundate 25,000 acres and displace 3,000 families, the dams expanded
mighty aquatic muscles. The Tennessee, the Little Tennessee, the
Nolichucky, the Holston, the French Broad, the Watauga, the Hiwassee,
the Little Pigeon--all the rivers spread their waters into lengthy,
ragged lakes, changing the map of Tennessee more than any natural
cataclysm, such as the great earthquake of 1811, had ever done. The
Lakes provided jobs, electric power, flood control, soil conservation, a
fisherman's paradise, milder winters, cooler summers, and they covered
all the really good farming land in the eastern part of the state.

Catriona loaded the revolver. It was an obsolete .357 Magnum with a
6-1/2 inch barrel, and the cartridge cases of the metal-piercing bullets
had a greenish sheen. "Now, put it in the holstah, and be ca'eful,"
Catriona said.

Stonecypher wore the holster, a leather silhouette studded with two
spring clips opening forward, on a belt and secured to his leg by a
thong. Gingerly, he took the revolver and slipped it under the clips.
"I've kept outa duels all my life," he said, "but, so long as it's for
you, I don't much mind."

"Ah'll mind if he kills you. You do like I tell you, and you can beat
him. Why, mah best act in the How-To Cahnival was How to Win a Duel.
Cou'se, they didn't know ah was really drawin' befoah the buzzah
sounded. Why, ah used to set two plates ten yahds apaht, draw two
revolvahs, and shoot both plates, all in foah-tenths of a second!"

Stonecypher grinned. "Sorry I missed that carnival first time it came
through here. I coulda seen you in that costume they poured on you,
three years earlier."

"Nevah mind the veiled compliments. Now, try it!"

Stonecypher faced the target, a sheet of plastiboard roughly sawed to
the shape of a man, and backed by a heap of earth removed from the new,
as yet dry, pond in which they stood. Catriona pressed a small buzzer
concealed in her palm. Stonecypher's big hand closed on the revolver
butt, pushing the weapon up and forward. The sound of the shot rattled
away over the mountain top.

"That's good!" Catriona cried, consulting the sonic timer. "One and
two-tenths seconds from buzzah to shot!"

"But I missed," Stonecypher protested. "Look bad on tevee."

"You'll hit him. Watch the recoil next time."

Stonecypher drew and fired a second wild shot. He snorted, "Confound
Westerns, anyhow!"

"Weste'ns?"

"Sure. That's where this duelin' started. Used to, almost ever' movie or
tevee was called a Western. Sort of a fantasy, because they were just
slightly based on real history. They generally showed a feller in a
flowered shirt, ridin' a Tennessee Walking Horse, and shootin' a gun.
Ever'body in these Westerns had a gun, and they all shot at each other.

"The youngin's were hep on 'em, so they all wore toy guns, and a whole
generation grew up on Westerns. When they got big, they carried real
guns. I've heard my great-uncle tell about it, how before the Government
built duel-pens and passed laws, you couldn't hardly cross the Lakes
without runnin' into a bunch of fools on water skis shootin' at each
other."

"You leave the histo'y books alone foah awhile," Catriona commanded,
"and practice. The tenants and ah'll tend to the wo'k. Try it loaded and
empty. Hook this little buzzah to the timeah, and practice. Ah've got to
go see the chickens."

"'Bye, teacher." Stonecypher dropped the buzzer in his pocket and
watched her vanish into the grove. He fired the remaining shots, nicking
the target once. With the revolver holstered, he followed the path to
the summer pasture.

       *       *       *       *       *

Belly-deep in red clover, twenty-four cows, twenty-four calves, and
twenty-four yearlings grazed or played in the shady field. Stonecypher
cupped his hands around his mouth and yelled, "Smart-calves!
Smart-calves to school!"

The entire herd turned sorrowful eyes on him. Seven of the calves and
four of the yearlings trotted to the gate, which Stonecypher held open,
and jostled out of the pasture. As the calves began to lie down under
the trees, a white heifer-calf nuzzled Stonecypher's hand and bawled,
"Paaapy gyoing a fyightt?"

"Yeah, he's goin' to fight," Stonecypher answered. "Your pappy's gone to
the bullring. He suggested it, and made the choice himself. He's got
real courage. You oughta all be proud of him."

The calves bawled their pride. Including those remaining in the pasture,
they presented a colorful variety of spots, specks, splotches, browns,
reds, blacks, and even occasional blue and greenish tinges. Stonecypher
sat facing them from a stump. He said, "I'm sorta late for the lesson,
today, so we'll get on with it. Some of this will be repetition for you
yearlings, but it won't hurt. If you get too bored, there's corn and
cottonseed meal in the trough, only be quiet about it.

"Now. To look at you all, nobody would think you're the same breed of
cattle; but you, and your mammys, and Moe are the only Atohmy cattle on
Earth. It's usually hard to say exactly when a breed started; but you
all started a long, long time ago, on July 16, 1945, near Alamogordo,
New Mexico, when they exploded the first Atomic Bomb."

At mention of Atomic Bomb, who had succeeded the Bogger Man as a means
of frightening children, one of the younger calves bawled. Her polled,
brindled mother ran in ungainly fashion to the fence and mooed with
great carrying power.

"All right!" Stonecypher yelled. The cow closed her big mouth, but
stayed by the gate. "Can't go by what you hear the tenants tell their
kids," Stonecypher cautioned the calf. "Atomic Bomb is as dead as the
tank and the battleship.

"Now, like I was sayin', the scientists put Atomic Bomb on a hundred
foot tower and blowed him up. There was a flash of fire, and an awful
racket, and the blast raised up a lot of dirt and dust from the ground.
All this dust achurnin' around in the cloud bumped into little bits of
metal and stuff that was highly radioactive. That means, the basic atoms
of matter had been thrown out of kilter, sorta deranged. The protons and
electrons in an atom oughta be about equal for it to be stable, but
these were shootin' off electrons, or beta particles, and givin' off
something like powerful x-rays, called gamma rays, and things like that.

"Anyhow, this radiation affected all the sand and bits of rock and dirt
in that bomb cloud. This radiation is dangerous. Some of it will go
right through several inches of lead. Enough'll kill you. Your ancestors
were ten miles or so from where Atomic Bomb went off.

"They were just plain Whiteface cattle. They weren't supposed to be
there, but I reckon none of the scientists bothered to warn 'em. The
dust started settlin' all over your ancestors. In about a week, there
were sores and blisters on their backs. The red hair dropped off. When
it grew back, it was gray.

"The scientists got real excited when they heard about it, 'cause they
wanted to see how horrible they could make Atomic Bomb. So, they shipped
fifty-nine cattle up to Oak Ridge. That was a Government town, a hundred
miles southwest of here, where they made some of the stuff to put in
Atomic Bomb. The University of Tennessee was runnin' an experimental
farm there. They had donkeys, and pigs, and chickens, and other animals
that they exposed to radioactivity. Then they killed 'em and cut 'em up
to see what had happened. I know it's gruesome, but that's how it was.

"The awful fact is, the scientists slaughtered more than half that
original Atohmy herd for experiments. Some of the rest,
they--uh--married. Wanted to see if the calves had two heads, or
something; if radioactivity had speeded up the mutation rate.

"Back then, they didn't understand much about mutation. Some claimed a
little radioactivity would cause it, some said a whole lot, and some
said it wouldn't hurt a bit."

"Whaa mootyaaonn?" asked the calf which was not yet assured of the
extinction of Atomic Bomb.

"Well, you-all are all mutations. I've told you how life starts from one
cell. This cell has thread-like things in it called chromosomes, and the
chromosomes are made up of things called genes. Mutations, sort of
unexpected changes, can take place in either the chromosomes or the
genes. You see, when this one cell starts dividing, every gene makes a
copy of itself; but, sometimes, the copy is a little different from the
original. Lots of things, like x-rays and ultraviolet rays, heat,
chemicals, disease, can cause this. Radioactivity had caused mutation in
some experiment, so the scientists were anxious to see what happened
with these cattle.

"Genes determine the way an animal develops. Two mutant genes can start
reactions that end up as a man with one leg, or maybe as a bull with the
intelligence of an eight-year-old man. Lots of mutations are recessive.
They may be carried along for generations. But, when two like mutant
genes come together in reproduction, the animal is bound to be something
different, the way you eleven calves are.

"Now. The scientists watched the Atohmy cattle for fifteen or twenty
years, and nothin' much happened. They started sayin' radioactivity
wasn't dangerous, and a man could walk into a place right after Atomic
Bomb went off, and it wouldn't matter. They should be here to see the
mess in Japan today. All the time, though, I think the cattle were
changing. It may have been in little things like the length of hair, or
the shape of an eyeball, or the curve of a horn, so the scientists
couldn't tell without they made exact measurements all the time.

"Then, a bull-calf was born. He had shaggy black hair, and his horns
grew in a spiral like a ram's. Some scientists said, 'I told you so! It
speeded the mutation rate!'

"Others said, 'He's a natural mutation, or else, a throw-back to
prehistoric wild cattle. It happens in every breed. Atomic Bomb had
nothing to do with it.'

"They married the bull, and then they fixed to slaughter 'im to see what
his insides was like. The bull fooled 'em, though. He came down with
contagious pleuro-pneumonia, the first case in years, 'cause it was
supposed to have been wiped out in this country away back in the
Nineteenth Century. They had to cremate the bull for fear the disease
would spread. Ever' one of the calves were normal Whitefaces.

"Finally, the nineteen Atohmy cattle that were left were put up for
sale. My great-grandfather, Cary McPheeter, bought 'em and shipped 'em
here to Bays Mountain. He's the man started this farm where there was
nothin' but rattlesnakes, and trees, and rocks."

"Whyy theyea selll um?" a red roan calf interrupted.

"Well, they sold 'em 'cause Oak Ridge had been condemned. That was
several years after the German Civil War. It was peace time, for a
change, and folks were sick of Atomic Bomb. Anyhow, new, modern plants
for makin' the stuff had been built in secret places a lot easier to
defend. The women were cryin' for more automatic kitchens, so the Bureau
of Interior Hydro-electric Power (that's the name Federal Power, Inc.,
went by then) put another dam across the Clinch River below Norris. Bush
Lake covered up Oak Ridge.

"There wasn't much mutation, except for color, in you Atohmy cattle,
till seven years ago when your pappy, Moe, was born. I remember--"

A hoarse excited voice shouted from a distance. "Thrill party!" it
cried. "Thrill party!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Stonecypher leaped off the stump, stamped his right foot to restore
circulation, and yelled on the run, "That's all today! Stay under the
trees!"

He loped along the pasture fence and across the makeshift target range.
Two tenants, Teddy and Will, stood on the dirt heap with pitchforks in
their hands. Over Bay Knob, an old Model 14 butterflier hovered on
vibrating wings. Sloppy white letters on the sides of the aircraft
spelled such slang expressions as, "Flash the MAGNETS,"
"SupercOlossalSoniC Flap ship," and "Redheads amble OTHer canop."

An impossible number of middleschool-age boys bulged from the cabin
windows. Methodically, they dumped trash and garbage over the
transmitter station ruins. The butterflier wheeled and flapped over the
pasture. Red clover bent and writhed in the artificial wind from the
ornithopter wings. Cows bawled and ran wild. Calves fell over each
other.

Stonecypher jumped the fence. He wrested the revolver from the holster.
"Clear out, or I'll shoot!" he howled.

[Illustration]

Voices spilled from the butterflier. "He got a handgun!"

"Dis ain't legal!"

"Whatcha say, tall, bones, and ugly?"

Stonecypher aimed the Magnum at the shaven head in the pilot's seat. The
boys looked faint. Agitated air thundered as the butterflier lifted
straight up two hundred feet and glided away in the direction of
Surgoinsville Dam.

Teddy and Will stood by with pitchforks unrelaxed. Will spat a globule
of tobacco juice. "The thangs these here psychologists git made law!" he
sneered. "You want me to make out a Thrill Damage Claim?"

"No, Will," Stonecypher said, "just deduct it from taxes."

Teddy looked at the revolver and said, "Ever'body oughta take guns to
them crazy youngin's. Reckon you'll git into trouble?"

"No. It's an empty antique. That's legal. You guys did all right. Let
the calves back in, huh?"

The tenants left by the gate, and, with a minimum of driving, urged the
calves into the pasture. Stonecypher watched the men pass through the
grove. Although the tenants undoubtedly recognized the peculiarities of
the calves, they never mentioned them. Since the late 1700's, through
Revolution, Civil War, automobile, the Department of Internal Revenue,
the multiple bureaus that had controlled the Lakes, the Moon rocket, and
the expedition to Pluto, these people had remained suspiciously
interested in strangers, suspicious of indoor plumbing, doubtful of the
Government, quick-tempered, and as immovable as Chimney Top. They had
exchanged little except log and frame houses for concrete. The tenants,
not really tenants, had been squatting on Bays Mountain when Cary
McPheeter bought the farm; and there they stayed.

Stonecypher vaulted the fence. Catriona, with hands firmly planted on
hips, stood in the dry pond. Stonecypher said, "If I just knew what
these thrill parties think they're up to, it might help."

Catriona shook her head of red-yellow hair. "Nevah mind them. Ah told
you to practice shootin', but the minute ah turn mah back, you run off
and staht teachin' those calves! You've got to practice, Stony! You've
nevah done any shootin', and L. Dan's killed ten people. Ah--"

"Watch the tears, or you'll have red and green eyes," Stonecypher said.
Clumsily, he ejected the shells and reloaded the revolver. He occupied
two seconds in drawing and firing. The bullet struck dirt a yard to the
left of the target.




SONATA


A short vicious thunderstorm lashed Bays Mountain on the afternoon of
July 3. As the storm passed, a blood-red butterflier, with a pusher
propeller in the tail and a plastic bull head on the nose, descended in
the young Sudan grass. Stonecypher dropped the saw--he had been clearing
away a beech limb the storm left in the abandoned paddock--and strolled
to greet Ringmaster A. Oswell.

"Stonecypher!" the ringmaster announced. "That storm almost caught us!"
Oswell's stainless steel teeth clacked, and the breezes trailing the
thunderclouds ballooned his orange silk kimono. "I never liked these
butterfliers. They're too slow, and that swooping motion! Five hundred
miles per hour may seem fast to a man your age; but in my day, back
before petroleum was classified as armament, we had jets! Real speed!"

"Come on up to the house, ringmaster," Stonecypher invited. "I'll mix up
some dextrose and citric acid."

"No, no time," the fat man panted. "Only time to see you about that bull
you sold me. The storm took a limb of your beech tree! Almost the only
one left, I suppose. About that bull, Stonecypher, you know I was a bit
hesitant when I bought him, but my driver talked me into it. I'm so
disappointed I had him drafted immediately!"

"But, what--" Stonecypher attempted to ask.

"The young woman there in the butterflier is a much better driver and
pilot," Oswell babbled. "I wouldn't have believed it of a woman! She
weighs a good ninety-eight pounds, too! That bull--he has changed
completely since we put him under the stands. He eats well, but he shows
no spirit at all. Tomorrow is the big day, Stonecypher! I can't
disappoint the crowd! I thought he might be sick, but the vet says not.
That bull let the vet come into the cage and made absolutely no attempt
to kill him!"

"But does Fergus--"

"Fergus's manager saw the bull! He's all for it. Fergus made an
extremely poor showing on Memorial Day, and the manager thinks this odd
bull would provide a real comeback! I advised against it. This heat is
terrible! The storm didn't cool the air at all."

Stonecypher maneuvered the perspiring ringmaster into the shade of the
beech. He said, "I wanta do the fair thing with you, ringmaster, so I'll
give you a guarantee, in writing if you want. If that bull's not the
bravest ever fought in Highland Bullring, I give you double-money-back."

Oswell's face wobbled in a tentative smile. He counted his stubby
fingers. "Double-money-back?"

"Yeah. I wanta get into the business. My grandfather used to sell bulls.
Then my father came along, and he wouldn't sell a one."

"Yes. Yes, I once tried to reason with him, but--"

"He had funny ideas," Stonecypher pressed his advantage. "I never did
understand the old man myself. He used to lecture me on something he
called the Man-Animal War. He said one of the worst things in the war
was the thousands of bulls that had been tortured to death."

"Peculiar idea. Of course--"

"He claimed bullfights slipped up on this country. Back when it wasn't
legal, they spaded up the ground real good. There were movies, and
books, and magazines, and foreign broadcasts, all ravin' about how brave
and noble it was for a bunch of men to worry and torture a stupid animal
like a bull, till he couldn't hardly hold his head up, and then run a
sword in 'im."

"Naturally, you--"

"I don't know how many times he told me a bull had more brains than a
horse, but less then a jackass. He said bullfightin' wasn't a sport,
even if the bull got a man sometimes: and he had the idea the worst
thing was the four or five horses, that ever' bull killed, took with
'im. They had some bloodless bullfights in California, and the nut
colonies out there like it so good, first thing you know, we really had
it. It came to East Tennessee 'cause this was one of the biggest
cattle-raisin' sections, before the Lakes took the grazin' land."

"Surely, Stonecypher, you--"

"My father always claimed if the bullfighters were near as brave as they
said, they'd take on a really intelligent animal sometimes, like a
man-eatin' tiger. He even thought a man was mentalill to fight a bull in
the first place." Stonecypher grinned. "No, you don't need to worry
about me, ringmaster. I hate to admit it, but the old man is the one who
was mentalill."

Oswell revealed all of his steel teeth in a broad smile. "You had me
worried!" he wheezed. "Now, your offer."

"I'll go even better," Stonecypher said, "just to show how set I am on
gettin' back in the business. If Moe's not brave, I got two yearlin's
you can have for free."

"How generous! You've reassured me, Stonecypher. I have confidence, now,
that the show will be a great success! I must go! You have no conception
of the life a ringmaster leads before a fight. I won't require a written
guarantee. I trust you, Stonecypher! See you tomorrow, I hope! I never
liked July. If the Government would only make more Lakes, it might cool
off! I hope--"

The whir of the red butterflier's wings terminated Oswell's discourse.
With a face like a gored bullkiller, Stonecypher watched the
ringmaster's departure. Another butterflier hovered above the mountain.
This one was green and gold with the canopy pushed back and a glint of
twin lenses in the cockpit.

Will appeared at Stonecypher's side. He spat in a long arc and said,
"That's a new one, ain't it, peepin' from a butterfly? I reckon L. Dan
never got kilt in that other duel like I hoped he would. You want us to
git you outa this, Stonecypher?"

"No, Will."

"We can see you git to the Smokies. The Givernment'll never find you
down in there."

"I'll be all right, Will. If he does kill me, take care of Catriona. And
look after the calf records."

"Sure thang."

Stonecypher walked slowly toward Catriona's open-topped sunbathing tent.




DANSE MACABRE


Duelmaster R. Smith adjusted his black tam. "Do not touch your shooting
hand to your weapon until the buzzer sounds," he instructed. "Otherwise,
the weapon may be carried as you wish. At the slightest infringement of
the rules, a robot gun will kill you. If you have any elaborate last
words, say them now; because the pen is soundproof." He laughed an
obviously much rehearsed laugh.

L. Dan wore orange tights today, but no armor, since the rules required
deulists to present naked torsos for probable bullets. Stonecypher faced
the duelmaster. "I reckon this room is the only place a man really has
free speech," he said. "You're deaf, and can't see good enough to read
lips, and me or him will soon be dead.

"I don't believe in this duelin'. It gives a man who's wrong a chance to
kill one who's right. A man shouldn't oughta have to die because he's
right. Just like ever'thing else in this Manly Age. It's painful. That
oughta be our motto, More Pain, just like in the Machine Age it was More
Gadgets At Any Cost."

"Why don't you go on tevee?" Dan jeered. "She'll soon forget you,
farmer."

Stonecypher's words rolled over the hobbyist. "I reckon the Manly Age
came because a man started thinkin' he wasn't much of a man any more. He
was just as fast as his car, and just as strong as his electric lawn
mower. And a loud minority of the women was claimin' they could do
anything a man could, and maybe better. So the men started playin'
football in shorts and huntin' each other on game preserves, and the
women went back to the kitchen and bedroom. Lots of things that went on
undercover come out in the open. Cockfights, dogfights, coon-on-a-log,
duels, stallion fights, bullfights.

"And people like you, L. Dan, went on livin'. You got no right to live.
You don't do any useful work. The Earth is slowly starvin', and you take
the grub out of some feller's mouth who might could help a little.
That's why--"

"Time!" announced the duelmaster with his face close to a large clock on
the wall. He opened the door. Two men carrying a body on a stretcher
passed. The body had four bullet wounds in it.

Dan said, "That drivel gives me a real reason to kill you, farmer. I'll
be good to her for a few days."

As prearranged, Dan took the right branch of the corridor and
Stonecypher, the left. A hooded man gave Stonecypher the Magnum revolver
and shut him into a space resembling a windowed closet with a door on
either side. Stonecypher secured the revolver in the clip holster. His
bony hands formed knotted fists.

The pen door slid back. Stonecypher stepped into a room thirty by ninety
feet with three bullet-marred concrete walls and a fourth wall of
bulletproof glass, behind which sat the ghoulish audience. Dan, crouched
and with his pistol in the crook of his left elbow, advanced. His right
hand fluttered an inch from the pistol butt.

Stonecypher, grotesque with thin chest exposed and overall bib wrapped
around belt, waited. Two photoelectric robot machine guns followed each
movement of the duelists. A buzzer sounded. Dan's index finger failed to
reach the trigger, for a guardian machine gun removed the hobbyist's
head in a short efficient burst. The noise of a louder buzzer punctuated
the execution.

When the soundproof inner door of the closet opened, the hooded man, who
had a pair of crossed pistols tattooed on the back of his right hand,
said, "He was too anxious."

"Yeah," Stonecypher grunted.

The man watched Stonecypher pass out to the street. Stonecypher snapped
up the bib of his overalls. An extremely rare bird, a robin, hopped from
his path and continued a fruitless search for insects. Stonecypher
walked down Watauga Street until the pavement vanished under the
brownish-green water of Kings Lake.

Catriona squealed when she saw him. Ignoring all Correct Procedures, she
almost knocked him down and attempted to smother him. "Ah told you it
just took practice!" she blubbered. "You did it, Stony!"

With muffled mumbles, Stonecypher managed to put her in the Tenite
canoe. The few people along the quay, who had witnessed the illegal
manner of their meeting, watched with shock, or with incredulity, or
with guarded admiration. When they saw that Stonecypher's hand rested on
a holstered revolver, they lost their curiosity.

Wading, Stonecypher shoved the canoe off and hopped aboard. As he took
up the paddle, his hand trailed in the water and released the small
buzzer that had made possible Catriona's best carnival act.

       *       *       *       *       *

For July, the afternoon was cool. Blue-gray clouds drifted before larger
dirty white masses. To the southwest opened the mile-wide mouth of Horse
Creek; and, far beyond, the great blue pyramid of Chimney Top Mountain
stood defiantly above Sevier Lake. The world seemed water broken only by
partly submerged hills and mountains.

Stonecypher gazed across the Lake at Bays Mountain and at the five
Cement Islands apparently floating against that backdrop. Softly, he
said, "Some folks call the big one Martyrs Island. There's a marble
pillar right in the middle. Nobody knows who put it there, and the
Government never bothered to knock it down. I reckon the poison ivy's
covered it by now, but I went and read the inscription, once, when I was
a boy. It says:

    "They moved me off the Powell River.
    They covered my farm with water.
    I bought me another near Beans Station.
    The water covered it.
    I was getting old, but I built at Galloway Mill.
    When they flooded that, I gave up and lived in Kingsport.
    I will not move again."

The canoe bounded over the choppy water, one hundred feet above the
silted streets of the flooded city of Kingsport. Stonecypher said, "The
time I was there, you could still find a few copter-trooper helmets and
old cankered shells. Couple of years back, a diver brought up two skulls
off shore."

Catriona's eyes remained moist, but she smiled. Her teeth were
beautiful. "It'll be all rahght, Stony. You can't change the wo'ld in
one day. You did fine, and Moe will too."

"I told you to stay at the bullring," Stonecypher said.

"Ah couldn't watch that! And those puny, little, mousy women stare and
talk about me, because theah's a little meat on mah cahcass. Oswell said
Moe would be last, anyhow. Ah was so wo'ied about you, ah couldn't sit
still."

Only a few boats, mainly those of piscatorial maniacs, were on the lake.
Stonecypher glared at them and muttered, "I hope I did right by Moe. He
wanted to fight. Maybe, Catriona, if I'd had you when I found out he
could talk--not just mimic--I'd of raised him different. Maybe I
shouldn't have shown him that bullfight movie, but I wondered what the
only bull to see a bullfight from outside the ring thought about it.

"That led him to wantin' to know all about the Man-Animal War. I told
him the best I could, how one of a man's basic drives is to exterminate,
ever' since prehistoric times when he did in the wooly mammoth and
rhinoceros. The dodo, quagga, passenger pigeon, great auk, aurochs, Key
deer, bison, African elephant, gorilla, tiger--there's an awful list.
Why, five hundred species of mammals, alone, have become extinct since 1
A.D., 'bout four hundred of them since 1850. A man'll even kill off
other men, like the Neanderthals and the Tasmanians!" Stonecypher rested
the paddle and grinned, faintly, at Catriona reclining in the bow. "I
guess you've heard this before."

"Go rahght ahead, Stony," Catriona sighed. "Ah like to heah yoah speech.
It's the only time you really get angry, and you look so fine and
noble."

"Yeah. Well. I told Moe how a man exterminates useful or harmless
species, and then he lets dangerous ones, like rats, eat him out of
house and home. Course, I explained this was just kinship. Folks used to
argue man come from a monkey, or from spontaneous combustion, or
something. Now we got fossil proof he's not like anything anybody ever
saw. He's a case of straight line development all the way back to the
first mammal, a sort of rat."

The canoe glided past Highland Pier. Every type of small watercraft,
from a punt, through an electric motorboat, to a sloop, had docked. More
boats lined the shore on either side of the pier. The flying field
contained so many butterfliers and copters that there seemed no
possibility of any of them taking off. Human voices welled in a mob roar
from the great open cylinder of the bullring. A huge banner draped on
the curving white wall proclaimed, in ten-foot letters:

        DEPENDENCE DAY
          BULLFIGHT
        HONOR THE GREAT
      GOVERNMENT ON WHICH
          WE DEPEND
    SIX BULLS--THREE KILLERS

Stonecypher ran the canoe aground in a patch of dead weeds, exposed by a
slight lowering of the lake level, and helped Catriona over the rocks
that lined the bank. He said, "I told Moe other things men do to
animals. All the laboratory butchery, done because it would be cruel to
treat a man like that, but it's all right with a animal, like takin' out
a dog's brains and lettin' 'im live. I told him about huntin', how the
kudu become extinct 'cause a bunch of fools wanted to see who could kill
the one with the biggest horns.

"I told him the things done to domestic animals. Dehornin',
emasculatin', brandin', slaughterin' with sledge hammers and butcher
knives, keepin' 'em in filthy barns. A man tells hisself he's superior
to other animals. If he does somethin' bad, he uses words like inhuman,
brutal, animal instincts, instead of admittin' it's just typical
behavior. And the psychologists take some animal, say a dog, and put him
in a maze, something the dog never saw before. If the dog don't run the
maze in two seconds flat, they say he's a pretty stupid animal. He just
operates on instinct, but they can't say how instinct operates. They'll
have a time explainin' Moe's instincts.

"I reckon the American bison made Moe madder than anything. They killed
the bison off, 'cept for protected herds, in the Nineteenth Century. A
hundred years later, the herds had got pretty big, so they declared open
season on bison. No more bison."

A recorded voice growled, "No guns permitted in ring. Deposit gun in
slot. No guns permitted in ring."

Stonecypher moved his permit in ineffectual passes before the electric
eye. He shrugged, dropped the revolver into the slot, and left his thumb
print. Catriona displayed the passes Ringmaster Oswell had given them.
The teveer blinked, and the gate granted admission. They rode the
escalator to the sixth tier and squirmed through pandemonium to their
seats.

The male portion of the crowd wore every possible style and color of
dress, in complete emancipation from the old business suit uniform, but
the women wore sober false-bosomed sundresses and expressed excitement
in polite chirps. Stonecypher pressed his mouth against Catriona's ear
and whispered through the din, "You got to understand, Cat, whatever
happens, Moe wanted it. He says he can scare some killers into givin' up
bullfights and maybe help stop it."

"He'll do fine, Stony."

Several spectators stopped venting their wrath on the unfortunate man in
the ring to gawk at the couple. Catriona's unorthodox physique aroused
sufficient amazement; but, in addition, Stonecypher gave her the front
seat and took the rear one, the correct place for a woman, himself.

Below, through a rain of plastibottles and rotten eggs, a tired man
walked to the barrier which Oswell advertised as the only wooden fence
in seven states. Behind the killer, a small electric tractor dragged out
the bloody carcass of a bull.

A gasping, gibbering little man grabbed Stonecypher's arm and yelped,
"Illard is the clumsiest killer, he ran the sword in three times, and
the kid with the dagger had to stick twice before they finished, Big
Dependence Day Bullfight my jet! This is the worst in years, Fergus made
the only clean kill all afternoon, and I flew every one of eighteen
hundred miles myself to see it, this last bull better be good!" The
little man waved his bag of rotten eggs.

Although the bullfight followed the basic procedures established by
Francisco Romero in the Spain of 1700, changes had occurred, including
the elimination of all Spanish words from the vocabulary of the
spectacle since the unpleasant dispute with the Spanish Empire twenty
years before. The gaudy costumes worn by participants had been replaced
by trunks and sneakers.

A purring grader smoothed the sand. The crowd quieted, except for those
near the box of Ringmaster Oswell. They suggested in obscene terms that
their money be refunded. A trumpet recording blared. A scarlet door,
inscribed, "Moe of Bays Mountain Farm," opened. The crowd awaited the
first wild rush of the bull. It failed to materialize.




GRAND FINALE


Slowly, Moe came through the doorway. Above, on a platform inside the
barrier, stood a gray-haired man who stuck identifying, streamered darts
into bovine shoulders. His hand swept down, carrying Stonecypher's
chosen colors, black.

Moe's walk upset the man's timing. His arm moved too soon. Moe's front
hooves left the ground. Horns hooked. The gray-haired man screamed and
dropped the dart. With a spike of horn through his arm, between bone and
biceps, he gyrated across the barrier. He screamed a second time before
cloven hooves slashed across his body.

The crowd inhaled, then cheered the unprecedented entrance. Killer
Fergus's team stood rigid, not comprehending. Then men dashed through
shielded openings in the barrier, yelling and waving pink and yellow
capes to draw the bull from his victim.

Moe ignored the distraction, trotted nonchalantly to the center of the
ring, and turned his bulging head to examine the spectators jabbering at
his strange appearance. The short horns, the round skull, the
white-banded eyes, the mane that seemed slightly purple under the cloudy
sky, and the exaggerated slope from neck to rump that made the hind legs
too short--together they amounted to a ton of muscle almost like a bull.
"Where'd you trap it, Oswell?" someone near the ringmaster's box yelled.

Forgetting the mess Illard had made with the previous bull, the crowd
commented. "It's the last of the bison!"

"He's poiple! Lookit! Poiple!"

"The bull of the woods!"

"Howya like 'im, Fergus?"

Killer Fergus posed behind the barrier and studied his specialty, an odd
bull. Two stickers, Neel and Tomas, flourished capes to test the bull's
charge, with Neel chanting, "Come on, bull! Come on, bull! Come on!
Bull, bull, bull!"

Moe did not charge. He moved, in a speculative walk, toward the chanting
Neel who tantalized with the cape and retreated with shuffling steps.
The charge, when it came, occurred almost too fast for sight. Neel
wriggled on the horns, struck the sand, and the horns lifted him again.
He smashed against the barrier. Tomas threw his cape over the bull's
face. The left horn pinned the cape to Tomas's naked chest over the
heart.

Moe retired to the center of the ring and bellowed at the crowd, which,
delirious from seeing human blood, applauded. Blood covered Moe's horns,
dripped through the long hair on his neck, and trickled down between his
eyes.

Quavering helpers removed the bodies. The first lancer, livid and
trembling, rode a blindfolded horse into the ring. "He'll fix this
horse!" the crowd slavered. "We'll see guts this time!"

Moe charged. The lancer backed his mount against the barrier and gripped
his weapon, a stout pike. Sand sprayed like water as Moe swerved. On the
left side of the horse, away from the menacing pike, Moe reared. The
lancer left the saddle. A tangle of naked limbs thrashed across the
wooden fence and thudded against the wall of the stands.

Twenty-five thousand people held their breaths. The blindfolded horse
waited with dilated nostrils and every muscle vibrating in terror. Moe
produced a long red tongue and licked the horse's jaw.

Fergus dispersed the tableau. Red-haired, lean, and scarred with many
past gorings, the popular killer stalked across the sand dragging his
cape and roaring incomprehensible challenges. In the stands, the cheer
leaders of the Fergus Fanclub lead a welcoming yell. "Yeaaaa, Fergus!
Fergus! Fergus! Rah, rah, rah!"

Moe wandered through the helpers trying to distract him from the horse
and looked at the killer. Fergus stamped his foot, shook the cape, and
called, "Bull! Come on! Charge!" Moe completely circled the killer, who
retired in disgust when another lancer rode into the ring. "Stick him
good!" Fergus directed.

The pike pointed at the great muscles of Moe's back, as the bull
charged. Moe's head twisted in a blur of violence. Teeth clamped on the
shaft behind the point. Too surprised to let go, the lancer followed his
weapon from the saddle. He released his hold when Moe walked on him.

Like some fantastic dog stealing a fresh bone, the bull trotted around
the ring, tail high and pike in mouth. The crowd laughed. Wild-eyed men
carried out the trampled lancer.

A third, and extremely reluctant, lancer reined his horse through the
gate. A pike in the mouth of a ton of beef utterly unnerved the man. He
stood in the saddle and jumped over the barrier where a rain of rotten
eggs from the booing fans spattered him thoroughly.

       *       *       *       *       *

An uninjured bull pawed alone in the sand when the trumpet recording
announced the end of the lancers' period. The crowd noises softened to a
buzz of speculation, questions, and comment, as the realization that
weird events had been witnessed slowly penetrated that collective mind.
The bull had not touched a horse, no pike had jabbed the bull, and five
men had been killed or injured.

"Great Government!" a clear voice swore, "That ain't no bull, it's a
monster!" This opinion came from a sticker in Illard's team. Fergus
attempted to persuade the man to help, since both of Fergus's stickers
were dead. Part of the crowd agreed with the sticker's thought, for
people began moving furtively to the exits with cautious glances at the
animal in the ring. They, of course, could not know that the bull had
been trained, with rubber-tipped pikes and dummies, in every phase of
the bullfight; that he knew the first, and only, law of staying alive in
the ring, "Charge the man and not the cloth."

The clouds that had obscured the sky all day formed darker masses tinted
with pink to the east, and the black dot of a turkey buzzard wheeled
soaring in the gloom. Carrying, in either hand, a barbed stick sparkling
with plastic streamers, Fergus walked into the ring. His assistants
cautiously flanked him with capes.

[Illustration]

Moe dropped the pike and charged in the approved manner of a bull.
Fergus raised the sticks high and brought them down on the humped back,
although the back was not there. The sticks dropped in the sand.

As the killer leaped aside in the completion of a reflex action, a horn
penetrated the seat of his trunks. The Fergus Fanclub screamed while
their hero dangled in ignominy from the horn. Moe ignored the flapping,
frantic capes. The killer gingerly gripped a horn in either hand and
tried to lift himself off. Gently, Moe lowered his head and deposited
the man beside an opening. Fergus scrabbled to safety like a rat to a
hole.

Four helpers with capes occupied the ring. When they saw death
approaching on cloven hooves, two of them cleared the fence. The third
received a horn beside his backbone and tumbled into the fourth. A dual
scream, terrible enough to insure future nightmares, echoed above the
screeching of the crowd. Moe tossed the bodies again and again across
the bloody sand.

Silence slithered over the Highland Bullring and over a scene
reminiscent of the ring's bloody parent, the Roman Arena. Men sprawled
gored, crushed, and dead across the sand. A section of the blood-specked
barrier leaned splintered and cracked, almost touching the concrete
wall. Unharmed, Fergus stood on one side of the battleground, Illard on
the other.

Fergus reached over the wooden fence for red flag and sword. Turning his
back on the heaving Moe, who stood but ten feet behind, the killer faced
the quaking flesh that was Ringmaster Oswell, high up in the official
box. The killer's voice shook, but the bitter satire came through the
sound of departing boats and aircraft. Fergus said, "I dedicate this
bull to Ringmaster Oswell who has provided for us this great Dependence
Day Bullfight in honor of the Great Government on which we all depend."
He turned and faced the bull.

Moe, for once, rushed the red flag, the only thing that made bullfights
possible. His great shoulders presented a fair target for the sword.

Fergus, perhaps the only bull-fighter ever to be gored in the brain,
died silently. The sword raked a shallow gash long Moe's loin.

In the sixth tier of the stands, saliva drooled from the slack mouth of
the little man seated beside Stonecypher. "Now's your chance, Illard!"
the man squalled. "Be a hero! The last of the bullfighters! Kill him,
Illard!"

Illard walked on shaking legs over bodies he did not see. He was short,
for a killer, and growing bald. He picked up the sword Fergus had
dropped, looked into the gory face of the bull, and toppled in the
sticky sand. The sword quivered point-first beside his body.




RECESSIONAL


A wind whipped down into Highland Bullring. Riding the wind, blacker
than the clouds, the inquisitive turkey buzzard glided over the rim of
the stands with air whistling through the spatulate feathers of rigid
wings. The buzzard swooped a foot above Moe's horns and soared swiftly
over the opposite side of the ring.

That started the panic, although Moe's charge accentuated it. He crashed
into the sagging section of the barrier. Cloven hooves scraped the
wooden inclined plane, and Moe stopped with front feet in the first tier
of the stands. He bellowed.

The bull killed only one spectator, a man on whom he stepped. The
hundreds who died killed themselves or each other. They leaped from the
towering rim of the ring, and they jammed the exits in writhing heaps.

Moe's precarious stance slipped. Slowly, he slid back into the ring,
where Ringmaster Oswell, quivering in a red toga, gestured from the
darkness under the stands. The fat man squeaked and waved. Moe's charge
embodied the genuine fighting rage of a maddened bull. The scarlet door
closed behind him.

Stonecypher, with fists bloody and a heap of unconscious fear-crazed
spectators piled before him, sat down. "Well, Moe," he whispered, "I
reckon you got even for a few of the bulls that's been tortured to death
to amuse a bunch of nuts. Maybe it wasn't the right way to do it. I
don't know. If I'd only had the gun--"

Catriona turned a white mask of a face up to Stonecypher. "They killed
him, in theah?"

"Sure. Bullfightin' never was a sport. The bull can't win. If he's not
killed in the ring, he's slaughtered under the stands."

"You have moah smart-bulls, Stony."

The black copter came in with the sunset and hovered over the sand. The
face of Duelmaster Smith peered out under his black tam, while a hooded
man, with pistols tattooed on his hand, aimed an automatic rifle. The
duelmaster smiled at Stonecypher and cried, "You really should have
waited until you were farther out in the Lake, before you dropped that
little buzzer in the water."





End of Project Gutenberg's Thy Rocks and Rills, by Robert Ernest Gilbert

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THY ROCKS AND RILLS ***

***** This file should be named 32878.txt or 32878.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/8/7/32878/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
