The Project Gutenberg EBook of Circle of Flight, by Richard Stockham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Circle of Flight

Author: Richard Stockham

Release Date: June 18, 2010 [EBook #32885]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CIRCLE OF FLIGHT ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Dianna Adair and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net










[Illustration]

     _Thorus, the vengeful, had determined_ his _way. Aria, the healer,
     had determined_ her _way. Which determined this classic meeting of
     the twain._




                        CIRCLE

                     _OF FLIGHT_

                By Richard E. Stockham

                Illustrated by Ed Emsh


It seemed they had argued for years as they were arguing tonight. The
man paced back and forth chain-smoking cigarettes; the woman sat
motionless, watching him. They glanced at their watches with fearful
eyes. They heard, with acutely alert ears, the goings and comings of
people in the hall; heard the shattering blast of rockets in the sky
above the city. And they argued.

"So you're going through with it tonight," he said heavily, "in your own
way."

"Yes."

"Perhaps I should stop you." He crushed out his cigarette. "If the
police were to hear--"

"No!" The word was thrown at him. "I know you don't mean that. But it's
unworthy of you even to say it." She covered her face with nervous
hands. "After all I _am_ your wife."

He stood over her, his lips tight. There was something of the fragile,
finely made puppet about her, he thought, as though she had been
refashioned a hundred times by some artisan seeking after perfect
delicacy and precision. He softened momentarily.

"Come with me then," he said.

"No."

"Why? Why?"

"Your way is _wrong_."

"We're the last two leaders of the opposition alive." His voice came
swiftly and low. "The authority's beaten us. Their setup for killing,
imprisonment, bribery and blackmail functions too well. Our whole
organization's been scattered like matchsticks. The police are closing
in on us. We're finished here on earth. We'll be lucky if we're killed
quickly." He waited a moment for his words to take effect. "We go along
together that far."

She stood, clasping her hands. "Of course. Of course."

"Look. I know you've finished that damned contraption of yours that'll
take you into the atoms. I know you've been working on it for years. But
I've been working too. My ship's been ready to take off into super-space
for two days. But I haven't gone. I've been waiting for you. To wait at
a time like this is to ask for death or worse. Now I demand you give up
this insane idea of going into the atoms. You've got to come with me."

"I've told you I can't escape with you out into the macrocosm. It's not
my _way_!"

"The word 'escape' doesn't apply," he snapped, "to what I'm doing.
_You're_ escaping. You'll creep into the microcosm and sit there like a
seed that won't grow. You can't fight the Authority from the microcosm.
That way is utter passivity and death. _My_ way is fighting back. I'm
going into hyper-space. My ship and I'll become so huge and powerful
I'll throw suns around like snowballs. I'll toss meteors around like
grains of corn. I'll upset gravities and warp time. I'll stretch and
straighten space. I'll turn dimensions inside out--"

"Yes. You'll destroy. You'll ruin everything, you'll break the innocent
as well as the guilty."

"I'll have to take that chance," he said grimly. "But I'll destroy the
Authority and everything that goes with it."

She pulled from his grasp. "Violence and destruction are not my way.
They never have been." Slowly now she sank into the chair, looked past
him as she spoke. "You've always worshipped spaces and vacuums and
voids. I've always been happy working with flowers and trees, the life
of the meadow and valley, the rain and the new, small buds in
springtime. We have always gone in opposite directions."

She paused and smiled a bit wistfully. "It's funny. Now we find, too
late to help our marriage, that there's a whole universe between us. You
refuse, or perhaps you're afraid, I don't know, to go to the source of
everything--this table, this chair, this gown, your own flesh. You don't
want to understand life; any more than you want to understand me. You
must conquer it--or destroy it. You must be a giant that can kick the
earth around like a football. But I _do_ want to understand, for in
understanding lies the cure. My machine will take me into the atoms.
I'll become part of the fabric and tapestry of the very warp and woof of
our world. By becoming a _part_ of it, I will _know_. I'll find the
secret of life in inner space and I'll return and release our people
from the Authority. And you? You'll never _really_ understand anything.
You'll be a wild comet, yes, but I'll be a raindrop in a deep well,
learning patience. I'll be a true healer."

For a moment sadness rose and softened his face. "There's nothing more
to say, is there."

"I'm afraid not."

"We'll make the goodbys quick." He came to her. "At least we're being
honest with each other. No lies. No pettiness. We've developed pretty
powerful ideals. And they just won't fit together. It's that simple--and
that good."

She looked up at him and smiled. "At least I haven't lost you to another
woman."

He returned her smile. "We're getting sentimental. This isn't good. It's
weakening." He bent and lightly kissed her hair. For an instant her
breathing stopped.

"Goodby."

"Goodby," she whispered.

He strode to the door and opened it. His body snapped taut.

       *       *       *       *       *

Confronting him with a drawn blaster, stood a man in the shining red
garb of the police command. He resembled Mephisto with his flowing cape
and snug trousers. His face was dark, his nose thin, his eyes black and
very bright.

"You seem surprised," said the man in red.

Aria had half risen from the chair. As the eyes of the policeman turned
on her, she sank back.

"How opportune," the policeman continued. "The eve of your departures."
The smile set on his mouth. His gun snapped up on a line with Thorus'
heart. "No sudden moves, or you'll be burnt to a cinder. But no. That's
what you want--a quick death. So let me threaten you with merely burning
your legs off." The blaster lowered. "It may interest you to know we
have a recording of your whole conversation. But there's something
else."

His eyes holding Thorus, he gave a sharp command to two burly,
bullnecked policemen. They stepped from the shadows and stood behind the
commander. One held a small, black box.

"I see," the commander said, "You've had experience before with the
truth clamps. You're frightened."

Thorus motioned the commander inside. "A little fear trickles through my
hate."

The door swung shut behind the three policemen. Thorus glanced at Aria.
Her fingers clutched the arms of the chair. He knew she was thinking of
the blocks that had recently been installed in their minds by X-ray
hypnosis. Would the blocks hold after three days? Three days, they both
knew was the limit.

"It's your methods of escape we must have," said the commander. He
motioned to one of the policemen.

Thorus watched the man step in front of him and raise the clamps to his
forehead. He saw features that were thick and heavy, as though they had
been roughly moulded out of too wet clay.

"You can see," the commander went on, "the tremendous advantage to us of
being able to go into the macrocosm and toss meteors around like bits of
corn, as you say." He glanced at Aria, who sat huddled in the chair,
like a porcelain doll. "And then into the microcosm. Unlimited power. A
whole new universe to conquer and colonize."

Aria did not move or speak.

"I see she refuses to face reality." He turned to Thorus. "But _you_
will face reality--and so will she when we've finished. Had you
conducted your experiments in behalf of the Authority, you would have
been well rewarded. But no, you have been working against us--however,
it has been _for_ the Authority after all."

Thorus felt the clamps tight on his temples, like two steel fingers.
Sitting stiffly on a chair, he felt sweat on his back and chest, felt it
seep from his forehead down into his eyes, felt the burn of salt. There
was tightness all through him as he waited for the first shock. His
fingernails cut his palms. His breath stopped. His shoulders and arms
hardened, stretched tight his tunic.

The commander flicked his finger at the one kneeling before the little
black box. This one tripped a lever. A soft hum seemed to rise from the
box and fill the room.

Thorus listened to the hum grow until it was a soft, high pitched
scream. He closed his eyes. The next instant a shattering blow ripped
through every inch of his body. Fire ran along his nerves. He felt his
lips grimacing away from his teeth, felt the corners of his mouth
stretching back to his ears. Oh God, oh God, he cried out in silent
agony. Hold back my screams. Then he heard himself groan. He cut off the
sound of it. Choked. Heard a growl deep in his chest. Lights flashed in
his eyes and there was a tearing apart through his whole body. A
squeezing together rushed all around him and an insane pounding and
pulling as though his flesh were being beaten and clawed from his bones.
Time dropped away from him until it seemed he had never been aware of
anything but this agony. Then he was empty of sensation. He felt himself
fall forward, felt heavy hands catch him roughly and set him upright.
The soft voice of the commander flowed into his mind like a voice from
outer space:

"You will tell us your method of going into the macrocosm. The
equations, the type ship, its propellent, where the ship is hidden."

Thorus felt enveloped in a void.

The voice of the commander droned on. "All we need is a clue. We'll work
out the rest."

Life and feeling and thought were surging back into Thorus now. Strength
filled his muscles again. Sight came into his eyes. Again he sat
straight and stiff on the chair. The block held, he thought. It held and
they cannot know now!

"Speak!" The commander's voice rose. "Damn you!" He seized Thorus by the
hair. "You've blocked off the information. I'll see both of you tortured
until you'll wish to kill each other. Then we'll try the clamps again."
He smashed his fist into Thorus' face.

On the instant the commander pulled back his fist, Thorus reached out
and jerked the blaster from his belt. His foot came up hard against the
man's groin. There was a grunting cry of pain. Thorus fell backward off
the stool, pressing the blaster trigger as he hit the floor. He saw
blood gush from the commander's middle, saw him pitch sideways, like a
broken statue, heard Aria's scream. The clamps pulled from his head. He
swung the gun's muzzle to the two policemen, clawing at their holsters.
The blaster struck out, a long coughing hiss, a spray of flame. There
were cries and gasps and jerking and clutching and the scrambling fall
of the two bodies.

Then silence.

Thorus crawled unsteadily to his feet, stood swaying. The gun hung
loosely in his hand. Now he felt Aria close to him, heard her voice
trembling and breathy.

"Thorus! Are you all right?"

"Yes."

"The blocks held! They held!"

Steadying himself, he saw Aria glance at the bodies on the floor.

"Destruction!" she shuddered. "Nothing but destruction. Oh God, I'm sick
of it!"

Thorus let the gun drop to the floor. "There's no time to talk. Your
laboratory." He grasped her by the shoulders and turned her toward a
bright steel door across the room. "_You'll_ save time to go into your
damned microcosm. _You'll_ make it. Good luck. If I have any luck at
all, I'll make it too." He gave her a push. Without speaking or turning
back, she moved across the room, as though sleep walking. The gleaming
door slab slid back as she approached it, closed behind her.

The memory of her face stayed in his mind for a long moment after she
had disappeared, and from the room's atmosphere he seemed to breathe in
regret and a sense of their failure. He turned abruptly, looked down at
each crumpled body. Opening the door a crack, he searched the brightly
lighted street for the figure of a policeman, saw none, stepped outside
and ran.

       *       *       *       *       *

In her laboratory, Aria worked deftly, swiftly at the transparent
body-length cylinder. She checked wire connections, dials, buttons, then
opened one end of the tube, lowered herself into place, when she had
closed the tube, she lay still, the forefinger of her right hand resting
on a button.

During all these preparations, she was viewing, with her inner sight,
Thorus' tiny ship streaking through the night toward a distant mountain
peak where a small metal ball, large enough for one man, sat shrouded by
a screen of invisibility. Now she saw the streak of flame die in the
night and the tiny ship sitting motionless beside the metal ball; saw
Thorus open a hatch in the ball's side, let himself through the opening
and swing shut the circle of steel.

"Thank God," she said. "Whatever comes now, at least he's made it."

Wiping away the vision of him, she hesitated a moment, said goodby to
earth and life as she'd known it and would never know it again. A moment
of yearning for a chance to live safely and well as a wife and mother
swept her with sadness. The yearning held her finger from the button; a
final hugging of human love and full human life, a last lonely cry for
earth as she had known it in childhood with the press of wind and the
touch and sight of green growing things and the depth of blue above and
the ground beneath.

Feeling then as though she were plunging into midnight ocean depths, she
thrust her finger hard against the button!

Instantly light shimmered all about!

The room dissolved. A sense of dreaming too vividly, yet of being deep
in a sleep that was a thousand times more acutely awake than any
awakeness she had ever known filled all her being. She felt herself
sinking into a great bottomless depth and yet at the same time soaring
through space to the ends of the universe, until both falling and
soaring flowed into each other and became suspension. And then suddenly
she saw all things as one. She saw the intricate design of a snowflake
that was the snows of all the earth and a drop of water that held all
the oceans.

There was the rhythmic beating all around as though of a great,
omnipresent heart and the surge and flow of oceans of lifeblood and the
rise and fall of eternal breathing. A speck of soil was the soil of all
the earth, from which grew forests and fields of green. She let herself
out into the space of all this and was merely there, like time is, where
there is the motion and change of birth and death and birth again and
death again. She felt a gentle touch on her body that was the body of
all mankind and knew it for the touch of air, a single element of all
earth's winds that yet was all the clear winds of earth.

The next moment a thundrous roar crashed like a tidal wave. She felt a
gigantic shaking in all the snow and water, in the oceans and mountains,
in the air and wind, in the blood and life and beating heart. A
faltering of the rhythm and flow went, like a cosmic shudder, through
all this life and through her own being so that she was conscious of
nausea and ache and a violent flinging about.

She had a sense then of pulling within herself, like a sea anemone that
has been touched by an enemy.

And in her silent voice, she cried out, "Thorus!"

In the macrocosm. Thorus destroying! Destroying! The next instant her
inner sight swung back to where Thorus' ship, the shining metal ball,
had leapt up off the mountain of earth; leapt, in the fraction of a
second, through the blue earth covering into black, outer space. Her
inner sight saw the metal ball inflating, a cosmic balloon, flashing
like the sun, then seeming to fill the space between all the suns!

       *       *       *       *       *

Thorus, in his ship, was conscious of being a colossus that could step
from planet to planet as though he were using them for stones to cross a
pond of earth water. Step past the solar system, he thought, out into
the universe. Now the sun became a tiny ball of fire, a lightning bug,
the earth a grain of dust. He could blow out the light of the sun, flick
Earth and the other planets into nothingness. "I've broken through," he
thought. "I've done it! I've been released." And looking out and away,
he saw universe upon universe extending past infinity, it seemed, an
ocean without a horizon.

Now, said his thought, I will destroy all evil and I shall begin with
the evil of earth. As though he were looking through a microscope, he
focused his sight on the grain of dust that was earth. His fingers made
delicate adjustments on a dial, and earth, softly green and blue, swam
clearly into his vision. He magnified his sight of earth until he could
see all of it like a gigantic relief map. He saw the fortified places of
the Authority--great, spreading, shining, metal domes; saw them dotting
the earth; saw the lines of vehicles speeding back and forth between
them. He saw too the hamlets of the people, in the spaces between the
forts of the Authority, all places of squalor with row upon row of
boxlike houses, each exactly like the other. There were not any green
lawns or shade trees, only houses and streets and people moving about.

Thorus felt his anger rise. He pressed a button that flung out fields of
gravity. Earth rocked and heaved, like an animal in convulsions.
Volcanos exploded, shot out their flaming, poisonous refuse. Oceans were
monsters writhing and rolling in their troughs, reaching onto the land,
as though to pull it beneath them. And the land itself split wide and
snapped shut great, yawning jaws. There was a wild rushing about among
all the people, a madness, as though frantic motion would save them.
They looked up off the convulsed earth with panic stricken eyes, their
voices raised in agony.

Thorus' voice sounded, "The time for the death of the Authority has
come. I will crush them as though I were crushing snails." He reached
out from the ship with rays that seized meteors and flung them like a
schoolboy flinging stones at bottles, one by one against the massive,
shining domes of the Authority. The domes cracked and split and were
crushed. The atomic bombs broke open with flame that leapt up yellow
tongues and grew mushrooms in the sky, and a burning death spread all
around.

Then Thorus was quiet, watching all that he had destroyed.

But suddenly, he became aware of Aria's thought within him, crying out.
"Destroyer! Murderer! In moments you've set humanity back a hundred
thousand years. You're worse than the Authority. There'll never be any
peace for you or for the earth or even the universe after what you've
done. Other Authorities will come and you'll have to destroy them and
others and others. Destruction for you forever, on and on, until you
fill the universe with it...."

In his mind, Thorus saw her among the falling snowflakes and the drops
of cool water and the green, growing atoms; saw her in the transparent
tube sink deeper and deeper into the microcosm, away and away like a
minnow swimming down into a beautiful lake on a summer's day. Deeper,
ever deeper, until there was nothing but the blue, sleepy water.

As Thorus looked upon the earth again and saw the terrible destruction
he had wrought, he trembled. There was the realization in him that,
beneath his consciousness, had lain the hope that, after he had wiped
clean the earth, Aria's healing power would remake it. But now there
would be no healing, and for thousands of years earth would lie a
smoking ruins with the people crawling about its shattered surface like
bugs.

He turned from all he saw. He closed his eyes and threw his ship out
into space, threw it away into the fathomless void. He must escape from
the universe, must flee from the horror that filled him at the
desolation he had wrought. Straight out into space, out into the
forever, where earth would cease to exist, where he and his remorse
would be lost.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gleaming suns and galaxies streaked past yet he seemed within himself to
be hanging motionless in an infinite sea of blackness while he knew that
the speed of him cracked through the barrier of time and space; knew
that it was a speed beyond any conceived by the mind of man. On into
forgetfulness, escape beyond his memory, faster and farther away than
his mind, so far away that even earth would disappear in his thought.

As incredible distances stretched almost to breaking between himself and
earth, he thought: So this is the end. For all I've been and wanted to
be, this is it. A nothingness beyond the universe.

But as the last word went from his thought, he saw a greenish blue ball
of light rush toward him. He watched it inflate in the port. It
enveloped the whole ship. The suns and the galaxies had faded into
nothingness. He was aware of sinking into eternal depths but at the same
time he felt himself soaring until sinking and soaring flowed into each
other. After a time, he saw shimmering white crystals encircling his
ship. And then the encircling crystals became one snowflake reflecting
light like the moon.

A great wonder filled him and he stared in overwhelming awe. He heard
his own heartbeat in his body and outside the ship, holding the ship in
an eternal throbbing; heard the flowing of his own blood like a
turbulent river; heard his breathing become the ebb and flow of wind,
like the sound of surf. His body too became the soil of earth and its
rock and water and he was deeply conscious of growth all through him. He
was birth and death and he was both in one and he was the life of
mankind, of animals, of plants.

As he waited in what seemed to be eternity, sunlight broke into his
sight and he saw a field of grass forming around his ship. Blue sky swam
into focus above him. White cloud patches formed in the blue as though
they had been ordered there by the word of creation. Thorus knew then
that he was on earth again, that he had come up from deep inside it.

Rising up, like one awakening uncertainly from sleep in a strange room,
he opened the ship's hatch and looked out upon the land. A flash of
light caught his eyes then, from above, and he looked up in wonder.

He gasped.

       *       *       *       *       *

Aria, in the transparent cylinder, sinking down through the blue, like a
leaf, settling gently to the earth a hundred feet away.

She crawled out and stood looking across the field of grass at him, a
strange, smile on her face.

Thorus leaped from his ship and ran toward her. He ran silently. She
held out her hands and he grasped them tenderly, as he would grasp the
hands of a child. And all he could say was, "Aria. Aria."

"Thorus," she said, and there was courage and joy in her voice. "We've
come back."

They stared into each other's eyes for a long moment and then they were
close, and they held to each other and swayed.

"Do you know what's happened?" she said.

"Yes. You came back through hyper-space while _I_ came back through the
atoms." His voice was quiet. "Oh, Lord. Oh good and strange Lord. We
forgot that one of the great men twenty thousand years ago, proved that
space was curved."

"Yes." She stood away from him now, yet held to his hand. "We couldn't
escape from our place in life or ourselves or the good and the evil that
we have done. We came back to our earth and now we must do what we have
left undone."

There was much to be done.

Thorus looked around. He saw in the distance a crushed and smoking
ruins. "I've destroyed the Authority, but I've destroyed too much. Now
the people are in chaos."

Aria stood silently awhile, and then moved his arm. "But now you can
help me to heal them. You've seen in the microcosm, as I have in the
macrocosm that all life is one. Now we can show the people that outer
and inner space are not separate. We can show them how they exist
together and how there can be no escape in either or from either. It
will take a long time. But we will do it. And the doing will be grand."
She paused. "The beginning and the end, Thorus. The greatness and the
smallness. The light and the darkness. It's all here."

"And all that's in between. That too."

"Yes," she answered quietly. "That too."

They turned to the smoking ruins and arm in arm began walking toward it.


                    THE END


       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber Notes:

This etext was produced from If Worlds of Science Fiction May 1953.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication was renewed.


"Obvious punctuation errors repaired."

Page 100 (page 8 of this ebook) baloon spelling corrected to balloon





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Circle of Flight, by Richard Stockham

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CIRCLE OF FLIGHT ***

***** This file should be named 32885.txt or 32885.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/8/8/32885/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Dianna Adair and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
