The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Frightened Planet, by Sidney Austen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Frightened Planet

Author: Sidney Austen

Release Date: August 23, 2010 [EBook #33513]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FRIGHTENED PLANET ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, David J. Cole and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






[Illustration: With a tremendous heave, Karn hurled the giant idol to
the floor]




                     The Frightened Planet

                       By Sidney Austen

       Karn was only a savage, but he knew a thing or two
    about the way justice should be meted out--and he did it


Against the blackness of the early morning sky the huge ball traced an
arc of flame. Had Karn been watching the sky he would have seen the ball
slow in its descent and then come to a landing some distance ahead of
him. But he was too busy for that.

On the back of his neck the short hairs told him that pursuit was still
close behind. He put on a fresh burst of speed, his bare feet making no
sound on the trail he followed. Soon the early breeze would shift and
they would lose his scent.

Until then he was in danger from the males of Tur's tribe. Tur the
coward, Karn thought. Tur the bully. Tur the leader of the tribe. Tur
had never liked Karn. He had liked him even less as he grew into
magnificent Cro-Magnon manhood. Karn represented the challenge that must
come to every leader sooner or later.

Then the wind shifted and Karn slowed. They'd give him up now. He was
certain of that. But what to do next? He was all alone, an outcast from
his tribe. For a full-grown man to find another tribe was impossible.

Still, he wasn't sorry about the fight. It had been a good one. Tur was
still in his prime. He'd used his teeth and his feet and every trick he
knew. He wasn't quite as strong as Karn, nor as fast, but he'd had the
advantage of experience.

Only one thing Tur lacked, in common with the other members of the
tribe, and it was that which had lost him the fight. He had almost no
inventiveness. For Karn's questing mind Tur hated him. He could not
understand a man who found interest in new situations. And what Tur
could not understand he hated.

So they had fought. For a while Tur held the upper hand. He had met
every rush of Karn's and repulsed it. But Karn had noticed that every
attack from Tur's left was met by a singular twist of the chief's body.

Once Tur twisted. Twice; a third time; and a fourth time he swung
around. The fifth time Karn was not there. He'd stopped himself in
mid-stride, reversed himself and caught Tur off balance. Then steel
fingers had fastened on Tur's throat in unshakable tenacity.

That was when the other males had charged to his rescue. Tur, they
hated. But Karn they hated more. Karn made up his mind quickly. Glat
alone he could have torn limb from limb. Waan alone would have fared no
better. But they and the others together represented for him a quick and
certain death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then it had been run, run, run. Run with all of them after him. Run into
the forest in the night. Only the giant wolf and the saber-tooth there.
But they were not half so deadly as his own blood relatives.

Now the chase was over. Karn paused, his chest heaving. In a few minutes
his breathing was back to normal. It didn't take this man long to
recover. Karn grinned into the darkness. It would take Tur longer. He'd
wear those welts on his throat for a while.

Karn shrugged and sniffed the night air. Better move ahead. No smell of
the big cats. But there was a nest of wolves off to his right. They
slept now, but soon they'd be awake. Up ahead there was a strange scent,
one he didn't recognize.

Should he go on or turn aside? Ahead there was a glade where a spring
bubbled. Small animals came to drink there in the morning. That meant
food and water to a man who needed both. Karn moved ahead, but warily.

The rising sun found him only a short distance from his objective. Now
there were mingled sounds as the forest came awake. Early-opening
flowers filled the air with fresh sweetness. It was good to be alive.

Then, through a thin screen of trees, Karn saw the great ball. It almost
filled the glade, reached nearly to the height of the trees. Gleaming
gray-green it was, like the eyes of the wolf. The association made Karn
pause. He drifted off to one side, picked a likely tree and hauled
himself up into its lower branches.

Patience Karn had. He sat immobile, watchful. From inside this strange
orb came sounds that were not too faint for Karn's keen hearing. An
hour passed; two hours. Nothing happened. Still he crouched, waiting.

His patience was rewarded. An opening appeared in the ball. There was a
puff of air being released from pressure. A figure stepped through the
opening and onto the earth. Another figure followed. What were they?

They were men! Clad in strange garments that covered them tightly, they
walked upright on two legs. But what puny men!

Half Karn's size they were, and hairless. Through their skin-tight
garments the bones of their narrow chests were visible. Their delicate
fingers hovered at their waists over small sticks. The scent of fear was
on them.

Karn's nose wrinkled in disgust. No danger here. Then a third figure
stepped out into the light and Karn's flagging interest reawakened. This
scent he recognized. This was a woman!

       *       *       *       *       *

She was taller than the men and her garment clung tight to a rounded
figure that brought a gleam to Karn's eyes. This one had hair, thicker
than Karn's own. Her features were more delicate than those of the women
he had known, but somehow more pleasing.

He realized that the three were speaking. Their mouths did not move,
there was no sound. Yet they spoke. Karn could hear the voices inside
his head. Somehow he understood.

"What a place to land," the woman said.

"Couldn't be helped," one of the men replied. "At least it has air. Once
the tanks are full we'll be on our way again. In a minute or two I'll
test that liquid to see if we can drink it."

"Must you test everything? It looks all right. And why must we stand so
close to the ship?"

"Because we don't know what sort of place we've landed in," the second
man said.

"There's only one way to find out," she told him. "By moving around."

Her tone was openly contemptuous. Karn found himself agreeing with her.
These men were spineless. They must be so to let a woman talk to them
like this. Listen to the way they bickered. Like three women over a
piece of meat that had fallen from the cave fire.

Karn's nose twitched. What was wrong with these people? While they
argued senselessly among themselves their lives hung in the balance.
Couldn't they smell the gray wolf that was creeping toward them?

The three stood almost below Karn and jabbered back and forth. And not
twenty feet away gray-green eyes watched them intently. Karn saw the
wolf's haunches lower. In a moment three hundred and fifty pounds of
carnivore would launch itself upon them.

Claws would rip their flesh, flashing fangs rend and tear them. Karn was
quite objective as he thought about it. They didn't have a chance.

A roar split the air. Karn had known it was coming. But the three below
were taken completely by surprise. Fear rooted them and froze them into
immobility. Crouching, Karn watched death come hurtling toward them.

But after all, they _were_ his own kind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Karn met the wolf in mid-leap. No tiger could have made the leap more
surely than he. His plummeting weight landed squarely athwart the
beast's back, breaking short the trajectory of its bound.

Together they crashed to earth. Karn's legs encircled the wolf's middle
with the strength of a python. Steel fingers found its throat.

Claws raked at Karn's thighs, slavering fangs sought his hands. He
retaliated in kind. His own teeth were at the wolf's jugular. The animal
rolled, taking Karn along with him, but the man would not loose his
grip.

Bestial growls rumbled from two chests. Dust-covered and splattered with
gore, they fought across the glade. Karn's legs tightened inexorably and
the wolf's growl became an anguished squeal.

It could not shake the thing that clung to its back. Slowly, surely its
ribs were forced inward until they cracked. Then jagged ends dug at its
lungs, its heart. There was a gush of blood from its nostrils. It lay
still.

Karn spat out the salt sweat that ran into his mouth and wiped it from
his eyes. Slowly he rose and shook the tension from his leg muscles.
Blood dripped from a shallow gash in his thigh but that concerned him
little. He had suffered worse in the past.

For the duration of the fight he had forgotten completely the two men
and the woman. Now, turning, he saw them watching him. Fear clouded the
eyes of the men, but in the woman's gaze he read awed admiration.

Karn gestured, a motion meant to show peaceful intentions. His move was
misinterpreted, and as he came toward the three the men reached for the
little sticks that hung at their waists. Frantically they waved them at
him.

Were they trying to frighten him with those things? Anger flushed Karn's
face and a low growl issued from his throat. One blow from each of his
hands and these puny men would be dead. The woman he liked.

But the sticks had stopped waving. They were pointing directly at him.
He was caught suddenly in the grip of a force that held him helpless.
Muscles stood out on his neck like tree roots but he could not move.

Inside his head Karn heard the woman arguing again with her two
companions.

"A fine way to treat someone who's just saved our lives!"

"But he might be dangerous. You saw what he did to that beast. Look at
the size of him. One twist of those hands and he'd tear our heads off
our shoulders."

"He _is_ a powerful brute, isn't he?" But there was no fear in her
voice. Only admiration.

"Worse than a Green One," agreed the second of the hairless ones. "We'd
better get back into the ship."

They were a little slow about that, Karn thought. In the underbrush
close by he had heard the movements of a heavy body. A saber-tooth had
no need for stealth. And it was coming their way.

"He's trying to tell us something," the woman was saying. "He may be
trying to warn us. Turn off those rays."

The men hesitated. Then their fingers moved slightly and Karn was free
to move.

       *       *       *       *       *

But now there was no time for warnings. Karn gestured over his shoulder
and started for the opening in the huge ball. He sensed that safety lay
inside. Behind him a huge cat snarled.

The hairless ones hesitated no longer. Leaving the woman to her own
devices they dashed for the ship. She turned to run, tripped and fell.
Karn scooped her up as he ran.

Almost together, the four reached the ship. The smell of the saber-tooth
was strong in Karn's nostrils; he could almost feel its breath on his
neck as he dashed up a ramp.

One of the men was fumbling with a lever. The ramp swung up; the opening
in the ship's side vanished. Against the gray-green wall the tiger's
body thudded.

That danger now behind them, the two men were pointing their sticks at
Karn again. But this time the woman halted them before they could
paralyze him.

"That's twice he's saved our lives. How much more proof do we need that
he's friendly?" She smiled at Karn. "Who are you?"

"Karn, of the tribe of Tur."

"I am Andra, and these men are Harus and Ven. We are of Mahlo. We thank
you for saving our lives."

Harus was the smaller of the two men. His face was thin, pinched with
perpetual fear. Ven too seemed always frightened. They stared at Karn
doubtfully.

"What are we going to do with him?" Harus asked.

"Maybe we could take him back to his tribe," Andra suggested. "If it's
very far we could save him a long trip."

Her eyes questioned Karn. He shook his head.

"No. They would kill me."

"Somewhere else, then?"

Karn shrugged. A full-grown male was no welcome guest in any tribe.
Andra read his thoughts and was sympathetic.

"You're really up against it, aren't you? From what we've seen of your
world so far I would guess it was no place for a man without friends."

"I will go with you to your people; to Mahlo, wherever that is."

"What a notion," Harus snorted. "Picture this uncouth thing in his wolf
skin on Mahlo! Besides" and the disdain went out of his voice, "we'd be
doing him no favor."

Karn grunted. They didn't think much of him. But there was more of it
than that. The three of them had fallen to arguing again. There was talk
of Mahlo and the Green Ones, whoever _they_ were. The argument droned on
endlessly.

"Too much talk," Karn said abruptly.

The talk stopped. Andra was looking at Karn, a slow smile spreading
across her face. Her breasts rose and fell with a change in her
breathing and Karn felt a warm flush rise within him.

"I think Karn is right," she said. "Too much talk."

       *       *       *       *       *

Somewhere in the bowels of the ship a great beast purred. I should not
have let them strap me down, Karn thought. The purring grew louder, the
ship lifted.

His back pressed against the seat and there was a crushing weight on his
chest. His insides tied themselves in knots. What was happening to him.
What invisible monster held him in its clutch?

"Afraid?" Andra asked.

Karn was aware that the weight was off his chest. The purring was
muffled. They had the beast penned. Then Andra unfastened the thongs
that bound Karn.

"Why should Karn be afraid?" he smiled scornfully.

"Perhaps now you would rather remain in your own world. There may be
danger on Mahlo."

This woman was a fool. Naturally; she was a woman. What was danger to
Karn? What was danger to a man who had lived his life with Tur and the
bull males of the tribe, who roamed the same jungle with the saber-tooth
and the great wolf?

Yet she was a woman, and one who attracted him. Karn reached out and
drew her to him. Let her feel the might of his arms. She was doing
something strange with her lips, pressing them against his.

"Now let me go," she said. Then, sharply, "Let me go!"

Bewildered, Karn released his grip. He was confused by this creature of
moods. One moment she smiled and the next moment she seemed angry. He
wanted to please her. But how?

"Well, we're all right," Ven said. He came from some other chamber in
the great ship. "We're running free now. At the next force field we'll
cut into Mahlo's orbit."

There was more strange talk which Karn did not understand. More debate,
too. It seemed that these men spent half their time arguing with the
woman.

Apparently the men held the supremacy, but a very shaky one. The woman
seemed not to know too much about this ship. But she had a good deal to
say nevertheless.

Then Harus' voice came out of nowhere. "Better strap in again. We've hit
Mahlo's orbit."

Again there was the awful pressure, the crushing weight. Violent forces
shook the ship. Andra moaned softly. Strange words issued from her lips.
Then they were out of the clutch of the awful force.

"Landing at Nobla," Ven said. Panels slid away and Karn could see
through the walls of the ship.

Below them was a city. They dropped toward it and its gargoyle-topped
towers reached up to meet them. Strange birds winged across an azure
sky. They came down over the city and landed gently in a meadow next to
the mouth of a great cavern.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Nobody around," Ven said. "I don't understand it."

"They weren't expecting us to land at Nobla," Andra said. "You're always
worrying about something. Come on, let's get out."

The ramp came down and the four descended, Harus leading the way. Karn
wondered why they moved so warily. This was their own land. What were
they afraid of?

To one side the mouth of the cavern yawned dark and forbidding as they
went toward it. Andra explained to Karn that it was the mouth of a
tunnel which led to the city proper. There were walls about the city
which were never opened.

They were almost to the tunnel when the green things came at them. Slimy
beings, as tall as Harus and Ven, covered with green scales and
four-armed, more lizards than men, they poured from the tunnel.

Emitting bird-like cries they swarmed forward, long spears pointing
ahead at waist level. With a scream of fear, Ven spun around and ran.
Andra and Harus stood petrified.

Their reactions were typical, apparently, for the Green Ones came on as
though used to encountering little resistance. Even the sight of Karn,
huge of frame and heavy-thewed, draped in his wolfskin, failed to
register. It was a fatal mistake.

As the first of the Green Ones reached him Karn side-stepped nimbly,
sweeping the spear aside and tearing it from its bearer's grasp. Karn's
other hand shot out and connected with a snout. The man-lizard dropped,
its face turned to green and oozing pulp.

In Karn's hands the spear became a club. The Green Ones turned toward
him in a body, trying to fend off this unexpected attack. They were met
by a whirling staff that crushed whatever it hit. Karn's power was
overwhelming. His rush cut a swath of death through the green ranks,
forcing them back.

He heard Andra calling and looked back over his shoulder. She was
standing at the opening in the ship, screaming to him. In their blind
fear, Harus and Ven were prepared to take off and leave him behind.

No saber-tooth could have altered the direction of his charge more
quickly than Karn. Before the Green Ones could even attempt to block his
retreat, Karn was through them and past them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Harus and Ven sprawled in their flight chairs, panting as though it were
they who had done the fighting. Only Karn seemed relaxed as the ship
rose and hovered above the Green Ones.

"Well," Andra said bitterly, "Nobla is gone. There's only Luma now. And
soon the Green Ones will have that."

"Nobla was yours?" Karn asked.

"All of Mahlo was ours," Andra told him. "But that was only until the
Green Ones got started. Now we have only one city left, and not many
Mahloans to defend that."

Scorn flashed from her eyes at Harus and Ven. "And you saw how brave
they are," she said to Karn.

"Where is this Luma?" Karn asked, disregarding her thrust at the two
Mahloans.

"Not far. After we have a look at what the Green Ones have done to Nobla
we'll go there."

The great ball skimmed over the meadow, lifted above the walls of Nobla
and rose to the height of the tallest towers of the city. For a while it
hovered alongside a great stone gargoyle that peered down into the
street below. Bodies were strewn along the streets, Karn saw. They were
all male.

"The women escaped," he observed. He heard Andra suck in a sharp breath
and turned to her.

She was pointing to a nearby roof. From a doorway there a woman of her
kind had emerged and was running across the roof toward the parapet.
Behind her came three of the Green Ones.

Only shreds of the woman's clothes remained. Her face was clearly
visible to Karn. It was the face of a woman crazed by fear and shock.
She reached the parapet, paused, and saw that the Green Ones were almost
on her. Without hesitation she jumped. Karn watched her fall until she
hit the street.

"This would happen to you too?" he asked Andra.

"If the Green Ones caught me. And eventually they will."

       *       *       *       *       *

Rage welled up within Karn. The thought of Andra in the clutches of
these slimy things sent the blood roaring through him.

"They will not get you," he said.

"No? After Luma there won't be any place to retreat. The voyage that
Harus and Ven and I have just made was in search of another world where
we might be safe. But the others are as dangerous as Mahlo."

Karn reflected that a people who could not fight these Green Ones had
little hope of survival among the Turs and the beasts of his own world.
Compared to the great wolves and the saber-tooths the Green Ones were
nothing.

"We will kill the Green Ones," he decided aloud. "We will fight them and
destroy them."

"Don't make me laugh," Andra said. "You've seen our men when they were
in danger."

The ship had lifted and was leaving Nobla behind. Watching the horizon
ahead, Karn saw another city come into view within a short time. It
looked exactly like Nobla. They must be a great people who could build
cities like these, who could make ships that flew through the air.

But they could hardly be called men. What sort of man was it who did not
have even the instinct for self preservation? What sort was it who would
not defend his woman? Andra read Karn's thoughts.

"What kind of men?" she said. "I'll tell you. They never built the
cities of Mahlo. Those have stood for thousands of generations, erected
by some forgotten ancestors.

"The men of Mahlo have never had to fight. There was no danger here. So
they spent their time in idle chatter, in philosophy, in the invention
of luxuries. But they retained control of the government. When the Green
Ones came out of the forests of the south and began their conquering
march, our men decreed that we must retreat before them.

"When only Nobla and Luma remained to us, the men decreed that we must
retreat from Mahlo to a world without dangers. Unfortunately there is
no such place."

Karn thought for a moment. "What about the Green Ones?"

"They are more reptile than human, as you saw. But they do have a
rudimentary intelligence. Added to their instinct for aggression it is
sufficient to destroy us. Wait until you see our Council in session. You
won't wonder then."

       *       *       *       *       *

Luma had turned out en masse to welcome Andra and her two companions.
Karn had been the center of attraction and interest for a few minutes.
But it was the report of the three Mahloans which mattered most.

Andra gave it to them straight. There was no hope elsewhere. The Green
Ones were only minor terrors among the blood-lusting creatures the
Universe had spawned. Unless the men of Mahlo fought back they were
doomed.

Yet Karn saw no sign that a fight was even imaginable. Shoulders sagged,
heads dropped in resignation, but that was all. As he and his three
companions walked with the throng to the Council forum, Karn saw brows
knit in contemplation, none in anger.

There were as many women as men in the great hall of assembly. They cast
no votes, but they had plenty to say.

"We might consider retreating to the northern deserts," Ven said after
he had called the meeting to order.

The women shouted him down. What it was that the women wanted, Karn
could not guess. But the men quailed before them and became confused.
The most important assembly in Mahlo's history was going to break up
with nothing done.

"We can only wait, then," Ven said regretfully. A chorus of assent rose
like a dirge.

It was all Karn could take. For himself death was nothing. All his life
had been lived in its shadow. But that Andra should fall into the hands
of the Green Ones was another thing. And that these men should allow
their women to meet similar fates filled him with contempt.

"You can do something!" he shouted, coming to his feet. "You can fight!"

Beside him Andra pulled at his arm.

"But we don't know how. No Mahloan has ever lifted his hand in anger.
Don't you see?"

The rest of the women were shrilling the same sentiments, drowning out
the men. Listening to them, Karn began to understand a great deal. But
it was not time for that now.

"Be silent!" he roared. "I see only that you are all going to die. At
least die like men!"

The women's voices shrilled in his ears but he shouted them down. By
sheer lung power he silenced them, and the sight of his giant figure
awed them and kept them silent.

"I am going to pick one hundred of the men," Karn told them. "With
nothing but pointed sticks and clubs they are going to follow me. And
they are going to fight! Do you hear? They are going to fight!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Darkness held no terrors for Karn. His eyes were sharp, his hearing as
acute as a bird's, his sense of smell infallible. Beyond Nobla's wall he
caught the scent of the Green Ones, foul and slightly acrid.

He had to move fast. The men of Mahlo were not as well equipped as he.
They had to have light to find their way around. And in an hour the sun
would be up.

Karn moved away from the gates, edged along the high wall until he found
a rough section. His fingers sought crevices. Then, with the agility of
a monkey, he made his way upward. At the top of the wall he waited,
listening to the sounds of deep breathing on his right and below.

The Green Ones slept. Their guards were at the gate as a matter of
course. But they slept secure in the belief that there could be no
attack. Karn grinned into the darkness as he dropped.

Peering ahead, he saw vague figures and moved toward them on soundless
feet. Only three or four of them here. It would not take long. His hands
reached out and closed on a throat.

It was ridiculous that the Mahloans should be afraid of these creatures.
But they were afraid of their own women, so it might have been expected.
Yet they were more afraid of Karn than of either.

He had bunched his muscles and scowled at them. And they had quailed.
They were afraid to follow him. But they were more afraid not to follow.
Karn thought that when the sun rose he would find his men waiting
outside the gates of Nobla.

Four of the Green Ones lay dead at his feet as he sought for the bolts
that held the gate shut. Very slowly he drew those bolts. All it would
take to open the gates would be the slightest push.

But it was taking him longer than he had expected. Already the sky was
purpling. Running now, Karn sped down the broad avenue toward a tall,
gargoyle-topped building.

He found ledges, plenty of hand-holds, but it was a long climb. The
rising sun caught him still twenty feet from the roof. Below, the city
stirred and came awake.

Green Ones were in the street. Karn prayed that they would not look up.
His prayer proved futile. He moved faster as bird-like cries came up to
him. He had been discovered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Climbing desperately now, he got a hand over the parapet just as a green
snout poked its way over. Karn struck out and the snout vanished. Then
he was over.

More of the Green Ones came at him as he gained the roof. Snatching up a
fallen spear, Karn drove them back. By sheer ferocity of his attack he
forced them back through the doorway from which they had emerged. The
door slammed between them.

They thought he was going to follow. He could hear them chattering among
themselves on the other side of the door. They were trying to decide
what to do. Their discussion gave Karn exactly the time he needed.

His eyes roved the roof, trying to find something that would be heavy
enough to hold the door against those on the other side. He had to
protect his back. But the roof seemed blank.

But there was something Karn could use. The gargoyles. Great
architectural excrescenses, they had never served any purpose. They
could serve a purpose now.

Each was the size of a small boulder, weighing close to six hundred
pounds. Karn lifted one easily, carried it to the door, and set it down.
One more trip and he was safe.

From the edge of the roof he could see beyond the wall. His hundred were
there, puny indeed from this height. His yell brought them around.

They could see him, but they were still afraid. Indecision held them
motionless for an instant. Then they began to move. And they moved
forward.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Green Ones had not seen them yet. Their own eyes were turned up at
this shouting giant on the roof. Then the gates of the city swung open
and Karn's men were in the broad street.

Swarms of the Green Ones poured from the buildings. They paused to form
a line of attack, their spears poised in readiness. That was when Karn
went into action.

He ripped a gargoyle loose from the mortar that held it and dropped it
over the parapet. Before it landed he had started another on its way
down.

On the Green Ones they fell with devastating suddenness, each one
crushing dozens. Another of the great missiles fell, and another. A half
dozen of them there had been in all, and when the last one landed the
street was a shambles.

Karn's men fell on the disorganized remnants of the Green Ones. Hairless
the Mahloans were, and puny. But there was a trace of manhood still in
them. Spears darted and clubs flailed, and the Green Ones fell.

Karn had known that only the taste of blood was needed. And he had been
right. Now his men knew that they too could fight, and that the Green
Ones were not irresistible.

By the time Karn reached the ground again the Green Ones were in full
flight. As long as they had held the upper hand they had been brave
enough. In the face of resistance they were cowardly.

Like Tur, Kara thought. Or like any other bully.

Then he looked up. A shadow crossed his path and he saw the great ball
skim over the city. Tur was forgotten now. As he went toward the landing
field with his men, Karn knew that he would never return to Earth. As
long as Andra was on Mahlo he wanted to be there too.

"You beat them!" she cried as she came from the ship.

"Yes. And we will drive them from every city on Mahlo and back to the
forests from which they came."

"But that won't be necessary. There's no reason for you to risk your
life. That's the trouble with--"

"There is only one trouble," Karn interrupted. "The women of Mahlo have
turned their men into women too."

"You can't talk to me like that!" Andra flared.

Karn found his men watching him. He had led them to victory over the
Green Ones. But with women it was another story. Could he stand up to
Andra? They were watching Karn, ready to follow him again. But which way
would he go?

"Woman," Karn said, "hold your tongue!"

Her face reddened with anger, then turned white as Karn took a
threatening step forward. Her head dropped in submission.

It was victory, complete and final. Before Karn's eyes the men of Mahlo
seemed to grow inches taller. Their shoulders straightened. For the
first time they were out of bondage. They were men. And it was this man
from another world, Karn, who made them so.


THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE

This etext was produced from Amazing Stories October 1948. Extensive
research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this
publication was renewed.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Frightened Planet, by Sidney Austen

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FRIGHTENED PLANET ***

***** This file should be named 33513.txt or 33513.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/3/5/1/33513/

Produced by Greg Weeks, David J. Cole and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
