The Project Gutenberg EBook of Friend Island, by Francis Stevens

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Friend Island

Author: Francis Stevens

Release Date: February 26, 2011 [EBook #35401]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FRIEND ISLAND ***




Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net








                           All-Story Weekly

                          September 7, 1918

       *       *       *       *       *

                            FRIEND ISLAND

                          by Francis Stevens

       *       *       *       *       *




It was upon the waterfront that I first met her, in one of the shabby
little tea shops frequented by able sailoresses of the poorer type.
The uptown, glittering resorts of the Lady Aviators' Union were not
for such as she.

Stern of feature, bronzed by wind and sun, her age could only be
guessed, but I surmised at once that in her I beheld a survivor of the
age of turbines and oil engines--a true sea-woman of that elder time
when woman's superiority to man had not been so long recognized. When,
to emphasize their victory, women in all ranks were sterner than
today's need demands.

The spruce, smiling young maidens--engine-women and stokers of the
great aluminum rollers, but despite their profession, very neat in
gold-braided blue knickers and boleros--these looked askance at the
hard-faced relic of a harsher day, as they passed in and out of the
shop.

I, however, brazenly ignoring similar glances at myself, a mere male
intruding on the haunts of the world's ruling sex, drew a chair up
beside the veteran. I ordered a full pot of tea, two cups and a plate
of macaroons, and put on my most ingratiating air. Possibly my
unconcealed admiration and interest were wiles not exercised in vain.
Or the macaroons and tea, both excellent, may have loosened the old
sea-woman's tongue. At any rate, under cautious questioning, she had
soon launched upon a series of reminiscences well beyond my hopes for
color and variety.

"When I was a lass," quoth the sea-woman, after a time, "there was
none of this high-flying, gilt-edged, leather-stocking luxury about
the sea. We sailed by the power of our oil and gasoline. If they
failed on us, like as not 'twas the rubber ring and the rolling wave
for ours."

She referred to the archaic practice of placing a pneumatic affair
called a life-preserver beneath the arms, in case of that dreaded
disaster, now so unheard of, shipwreck.

"In them days there was still many a man bold enough to join our
crews. And I've knowed cases," she added condescendingly, "where just
by the muscle and brawn of such men some poor sailor lass has reached
shore alive that would have fed the sharks without 'em. Oh, I ain't so
down on men as you might think. It's the spoiling of them that I don't
hold with. There's too much preached nowadays that man is fit for
nothing but to fetch and carry and do nurse-work in big child-homes.
To my mind, a man who hasn't the nerve of a woman ain't fitted to
father children, let alone raise 'em. But that's not here nor there.
My time's past, and I know it, or I wouldn't be setting here gossipin'
to you, my lad, over an empty teapot."

I took the hint, and with our cups replenished, she bit thoughtfully
into her fourteenth macaroon and continued.

"There's one voyage I'm not likely to forget, though I live to be as
old as Cap'n Mary Barnacle, of the _Shouter_. 'Twas aboard the old
_Shouter_ that this here voyage occurred, and it was her last and
likewise Cap'n Mary's. Cap'n Mary, she was then that decrepit, it
seemed a mercy that she should go to her rest, and in good salt water
at that.

"I remember the voyage for Cap'n Mary's sake, but most I remember it
because 'twas then that I come the nighest in my life to committin'
matrimony. For a man, the man had nerve; he was nearer bein'
companionable than any other man I ever seed; and if it hadn't been
for just one little event that showed up the--the _mannishness_ of
him, in a way I couldn't abide, I reckon he'd be keepin' house for me
this minute."

       *       *       *       *       *

"We cleared from Frisco with a cargo of silkateen petticoats for
Brisbane. Cap'n Mary was always strong on petticoats. Leather breeches
or even half-skirts would ha' paid far better, they being more in
demand like, but Cap'n Mary was three-quarters owner, and says she,
land women should buy petticoats, and if they didn't it wouldn't be
the Lord's fault nor hers for not providing 'em.

"We cleared on a fine day, which is an all sign--or was, then when the
weather and the seas o' God still counted in the trafficking of the
humankind. Not two days out we met a whirling, mucking bouncer of a
gale that well nigh threw the old _Shouter_ a full point off her
course in the first wallop. She was a stout craft, though. None of
your featherweight, gas-lightened, paper-thin alloy shells, but
toughened aluminum from stern to stern. Her turbine drove her through
the combers at a forty-five knot clip, which named her a speedy craft
for a freighter in them days.

"But this night, as we tore along through the creaming green billows,
something unknown went 'way wrong down below.

"I was forward under the shelter of her long over-sloop, looking for a
hairpin I'd dropped somewheres about that afternoon. It was a gold
hairpin, and gold still being mighty scarce when I was a girl, a
course I valued it. But suddenly I felt the old _Shouter_ give a jump
under my feet like a plane struck by a shell in full flight. Then she
trembled all over for a full second, frightened like. Then, with the
crash of doomsday ringing in my ears, I felt myself sailing through
the air right into the teeth o' the shrieking gale, as near as I could
judge. Down I come in the hollow of a monstrous big wave, and as my
ears doused under I thought I heard a splash close by. Coming up, sure
enough, there close by me was floating a new, patent, hermetic,
thermo-ice-chest. Being as it was empty, and being as it was shut up
air-tight, that ice-chest made as sweet a life-preserver as a woman
could wish in such an hour. About ten foot by twelve, it floated high
in the raging sea. Out on its top I scrambled, and hanging on by a
handle I looked expectant for some of my poor fellow-women to come
floating by. Which they never did, for the good reason that the
_Shouter_ had blowed up and went below, petticoats, Cap'n Mary and
all."

"What caused the explosion?" I inquired.

"The Lord and Cap'n Mary Barnacle can explain," she answered piously.
"Besides the oil for her turbines, she carried a power of gasoline for
her alternative engines, and likely 'twas the cause of her ending so
sudden like. Anyways, all I ever seen of her again was the empty
ice-chest that Providence had well-nigh hove upon my head. On that I
sat and floated, and floated and sat some more, till by-and-by the
storm sort of blowed itself out, the sun come shining--this was next
morning--and I could dry my hair and look about me. I was a young
lass, then, and not bad to look upon. I didn't want to die, any more
than you that's sitting there this minute. So I up and prays for land.
Sure enough toward evening a speck heaves up low down on the horizon.
At first I took it for a gas liner, but later found it was just a
little island, all alone by itself in the great Pacific Ocean.

"Come, now, here's luck, thinks I, and with that I deserts the
ice-chest, which being empty, and me having no ice to put in it, not
likely to have in them latitudes, is of no further use to me. Striking
out I swum a mile or so and set foot on dry land for the first time in
nigh three days.

"Pretty land it were, too, though bare of human life as an iceberg in
the Arctic.

"I had landed on a shining white beach that run up to a grove of
lovely, waving palm trees. Above them I could see the slopes of a hill
so high and green it reminded me of my own old home, up near
Couquomgomoc Lake in Maine. The whole place just seemed to smile and
smile at me. The palms waved and bowed in the sweet breeze, like they
wanted to say, 'Just set right down and make yourself to home. We've
been waiting a long time for you to come.' I cried, I was that happy
to be made welcome. I was a young lass then, and sensitive-like to how
folks treated me. You're laughing now, but wait and see if or not
there was sense to the way I felt.

"So I up and dries my clothes and my long, soft hair again, which was
well worth drying, for I had far more of it than now. After that I
walked along a piece, until there was a sweet little path meandering
away into the wild woods.

"Here, thinks I, this looks like inhabitants. Be they civil or wild, I
wonder? But after traveling the path a piece, lo and behold it ended
sudden like in a wide circle of green grass, with a little spring of
clear water. And the first thing I noticed was a slab of white board
nailed to a palm tree close to the spring. Right off I took a long
drink, for you better believe I was thirsty, and then I went to look
at this board. It had evidently been tore off the side of a wooden
packing box, and the letters was roughly printed in lead pencil.

"'Heaven help whoever you be,' I read. 'This island ain't just right.
I'm going to swim for it. You better too. Good-by. Nelson Smith.'
That's what it said, but the spellin' was simply awful. It all looked
quite new and recent, as if Nelson Smith hadn't more than a few hours
before he wrote and nailed it there.

"Well, after reading that queer warning I begun to shake all over like
in a chill. Yes, I shook like I had the ague, though the hot tropic
sun was burning down right on me and that alarming board. What had
scared Nelson Smith so much that he had swum to get away? I looked all
around real cautious and careful, but not a single frightening thing
could I behold. And the palms and the green grass and the flowers
still smiled that peaceful and friendly like. 'Just make yourself to
home,' was wrote all over the place in plainer letters than those
sprawly lead pencil ones on the board.

"Pretty soon, what with the quiet and all, the chill left me. Then I
thought, 'Well, to be sure, this Smith person was just an ordinary
man, I reckon, and likely he got nervous of being so alone. Likely he
just fancied things which was really not. It's a pity he drowned
himself before I come, though likely I'd have found him poor company.
By his record I judge him a man of but common education.'

"So I decided to make the most of my welcome, and that I did for weeks
to come. Right near the spring was a cave, dry as a biscuit box, with
a nice floor of white sand. Nelson had lived there too, for there was
a litter of stuff--tin cans--empty--scraps of newspapers and the like.
I got to calling him Nelson in my mind, and then Nelly, and wondering
if he was dark or fair, and how he come to be cast away there all
alone, and what was the strange events that drove him to his end. I
cleaned out the cave, though. He had devoured all his tin-canned
provisions, however he come by them, but this I didn't mind. That
there island was a generous body. Green milk-coconuts, sweet berries,
turtle eggs and the like was my daily fare.

"For about three weeks the sun shone every day, the birds sang and the
monkeys chattered. We was all one big, happy family, and the more I
explored that island the better I liked the company I was keeping. The
land was about ten miles from beach to beach, and never a foot of it
that wasn't sweet and clean as a private park.

"From the top of the hill I could see the ocean, miles and miles of
blue water, with never a sign of a gas liner, or even a little
government running-boat. Them running-boats used to go most everywhere
to keep the seaways clean of derelicts and the like. But I knowed that
if this island was no more than a hundred miles off the regular
courses of navigation, it might be many a long day before I'd be
rescued. The top of the hill, as I found when first I climbed up
there, was a wore-out crater. So I knowed that the island was one of
them volcanic ones you run across so many of in the seas between
Capricorn and Cancer.

"Here and there on the slopes and down through the jungly tree-growth,
I would come on great lumps of rock, and these must have came up out
of that crater long ago. If there was lava it was so old it had been
covered up entire with green growing stuff. You couldn't have found it
without a spade, which I didn't have nor want."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, at first I was happy as the hours was long. I wandered and
clambered and waded and swum, and combed my long hair on the beach,
having fortunately not lost my side-combs nor the rest of my gold
hairpins. But by-and-by it begun to get just a bit lonesome. Funny
thing, that's a feeling that, once it starts, it gets worse and worser
so quick it's perfectly surprising. And right then was when the days
begun to get gloomy. We had a long, sickly hot spell, like I never
seen before on an ocean island. There was dull clouds across the sun
from morn to night. Even the little monkeys and parrakeets, that had
seemed so gay, moped and drowsed like they was sick. All one day I
cried, and let the rain soak me through and through--that was the
first rain we had--and I didn't get thorough dried even during the
night, though I slept in my cave. Next morning I got up mad as thunder
at myself and all the world.

"When I looked out the black clouds was billowing across the sky. I
could hear nothing but great breakers roaring in on the beaches, and
the wild wind raving through the lashing palms.

"As I stood there a nasty little wet monkey dropped from a branch
almost on my head. I grabbed a pebble and slung it at him real
vicious. 'Get away, you dirty little brute!' I shrieks, and with that
there come a awful blinding flare of light. There was a long,
crackling noise like a bunch of Chinese fireworks, and then a sound as
if a whole fleet of _Shouters_ had all went up together.

"When I come to, I found myself 'way in the back of my cave, trying to
dig further into the rock with my finger nails. Upon taking thought,
it come to me that what had occurred was just a lightning-clap, and
going to look, sure enough there lay a big palm tree right across the
glade. It was all busted and split open by the lightning, and the
little monkey was under it, for I could see his tail and his hind legs
sticking out.

"Now, when I set eyes on that poor, crushed little beast I'd been so
mean to, I was terrible ashamed. I sat down on the smashed tree and
considered and considered. How thankful I had ought to have been. Here
I had a lovely, plenteous island, with food and water to my taste,
when it might have been a barren, starvation rock that was my lot. And
so, thinking, a sort of gradual peaceful feeling stole over me. I got
cheerfuller and cheerfuller, till I could have sang and danced for
joy.

"Pretty soon I realized that the sun was shining bright for the first
time that week. The wind had stopped hollering, and the waves had died
to just a singing murmur on the beach. It seemed kind o' strange, this
sudden peace, like the cheer in my own heart after its rage and storm.
I rose up, feeling sort of queer, and went to look if the little
monkey had came alive again, though that was a fool thing, seeing he
was laying all crushed up and very dead. I buried him under a tree
root, and as I did it a conviction come to me.

"I didn't hardly question that conviction at all. Somehow, living
there alone so long, perhaps my natural womanly intuition was stronger
than ever before or since, and so I _knowed_. Then I went and pulled
poor Nelson Smith's board off from the tree and tossed it away for the
tide to carry off. That there board was an insult to my island!"

The sea-woman paused, and her eyes had a far-away look. It seemed as
if I and perhaps even the macaroons and tea were quite forgotten.

"Why did you think that?" I asked, to bring her back. "How could an
island be insulted?"

She started, passed her hand across her eyes, and hastily poured
another cup of tea.

"Because," she said at last, poising a macaroon in mid-air, "because
that island--that particular island that I had landed on--had a heart!

"When I was gay, it was bright and cheerful. It was glad when I come,
and it treated me right until I got that grouchy it had to mope from
sympathy. It loved me like a friend. When I flung a rock at that poor
little drenched monkey critter, it backed up my act with an anger like
the wrath o' God, and killed its own child to please me! But it got
right cheery the minute I seen the wrongness of my ways. Nelson Smith
had no business to say, 'This island ain't just right,' for it was a
righter place than ever I seen elsewhere. When I cast away that lying
board, all the birds begun to sing like mad. The green milk-coconuts
fell right and left. Only the monkeys seemed kind o' sad like still,
and no wonder. You see, their own mother, the island, had rounded on
one o' them for my sake!

"After that I was right careful and considerate. I named the island
Anita, not knowing her right name, or if she had any. Anita was a
pretty name, and it sounded kind of South Sea like. Anita and me got
along real well together from that day on. It was some strain to be
always gay and singing around like a dear duck of a canary bird, but I
done my best. Still, for all the love and gratitude I bore Anita, the
company of an island, however sympathetic, ain't quite enough for a
human being. I still got lonesome, and there was even days when I
couldn't keep the clouds clear out of the sky, though I will say we
had no more tornadoes.

"I think the island understood and tried to help me with all the
bounty and good cheer the poor thing possessed. None the less my heart
give a wonderful big leap when one day I seen a blot on the horizon.
It drawed nearer and nearer, until at last I could make out its
nature."

"A ship, of course," said I, "and were you rescued?"

"'Tweren't a ship, neither," denied the sea-woman somewhat
impatiently. "Can't you let me spin this yarn without no more remarks
and fool questions? This thing what was bearing down so fast with the
incoming tide was neither more nor less than another island!

"You may well look startled. I was startled myself. Much more so than
you, likely. I didn't know then what you, with your book-learning,
very likely know now--that islands sometimes float. Their underparts
being a tangled-up mess of roots and old vines that new stuff's growed
over, they sometimes break away from the mainland in a brisk gale and
go off for a voyage, calm as a old-fashioned, eight-funnel steamer.
This one was uncommon large, being as much as two miles, maybe, from
shore to shore. It had its palm trees and its live things, just like
my own Anita, and I've sometimes wondered if this drifting piece
hadn't really been a part of my island once--just its daughter like,
as you might say.

"Be that, however, as it might be, no sooner did the floating piece
get within hailing distance than I hears a human holler and there was
a man dancing up and down on the shore like he was plumb crazy. Next
minute he had plunged into the narrow strip of water between us and in
a few minutes had swum to where I stood.

"Yes, of course it was none other than Nelson Smith!

"I knowed that the minute I set eyes on him. He had the very look of
not having no better sense than the man what wrote that board and then
nearly committed suicide trying to get away from the best island in
all the oceans. Glad enough he was to get back, though, for the
coconuts was running very short on the floater what had rescued him,
and the turtle eggs wasn't worth mentioning. Being short of grub is
the surest way I know to cure a man's fear of the unknown."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, to make a long story short, Nelson Smith told me he was a
aeronauter. In them days to be an aeronauter was not the same as to be
an aviatress is now. There was dangers in the air, and dangers in the
sea, and he had met with both. His gas tank had leaked and he had
dropped into the water close by Anita. A case or two of provisions was
all he could save from the total wreck.

"Now, as you might guess, I was crazy enough to find out what had
scared this Nelson Smith into trying to swim the Pacific. He told me a
story that seemed to fit pretty well with mine, only when it come to
the scary part he shut up like a clam, that aggravating way some men
have. I give it up at last for just man-foolishness, and we begun to
scheme to get away.

"Anita moped some while we talked it over. I realized how she must be
feeling, so I explained to her that it was right needful for us to get
with our kind again. If we stayed with her we should probably quarrel
like cats, and maybe even kill each other out of pure human
cussedness. She cheered up considerable after that, and even, I
thought, got a little anxious to have us leave. At any rate, when we
begun to provision up the little floater, which we had anchored to
the big island by a cable of twisted bark, the green nuts fell all
over the ground, and Nelson found more turtle nests in a day than I
had in weeks.

"During them days I really got fond of Nelson Smith. He was a
companionable body, and brave, or he wouldn't have been a professional
aeronauter, a job that was rightly thought tough enough for a woman,
let alone a man. Though he was not so well educated as me, at least he
was quiet and modest about what he did know, not like some men,
boasting most where there is least to brag of.

"Indeed, I misdoubt if Nelson and me would not have quit the sea and
the air together and set up housekeeping in some quiet little town up
in New England, maybe, after we had got away, if it had not been for
what happened when we went. I never, let me say, was so deceived in
any man before nor since. The thing taught me a lesson and I never was
fooled again.

"We was all ready to go, and then one morning, like a parting gift
from Anita, come a soft and favoring wind. Nelson and I run down the
beach together, for we didn't want our floater to blow off and leave
us. As we was running, our arms full of coconuts, Nelson Smith,
stubbed his bare toe on a sharp rock, and down he went. I hadn't
noticed, and was going on.

"But sudden the ground begun to shake under my feet, and the air was
full of a queer, grinding, groaning sound, like the very earth was in
pain.

"I turned around sharp. There sat Nelson, holding his bleeding toe in
both fists and giving vent to such awful words as no decent sea-going
lady would ever speak nor hear to!

"'Stop it, stop it!' I shrieked at him, but 'twas too late.

"Island or no island, Anita was a lady, too! She had a gentle heart,
but she knowed how to behave when she was insulted.

"With one terrible, great roar a spout of smoke and flame belched up
out o' the heart of Anita's crater hill a full mile into the air!

"I guess Nelson stopped swearing. He couldn't have heard himself,
anyways. Anita was talking now with tongues of flame and such roars as
would have bespoke the raging protest of a continent.

"I grabbed that fool man by the hand and run him down to the water. We
had to swim good and hard to catch up with our only hope, the floater.
No bark rope could hold her against the stiff breeze that was now
blowing, and she had broke her cable. By the time we scrambled aboard
great rocks was falling right and left. We couldn't see each other for
a while for the clouds of fine gray ash.

"It seemed like Anita was that mad she was flinging stones after us,
and truly I believe that such was her intention. I didn't blame her,
neither!

"Lucky for us the wind was strong and we was soon out of range.

"'So!' says I to Nelson, after I'd got most of the ashes out of my
mouth, and shook my hair clear of cinders. 'So, that was the reason
you up and left sudden when you was there before! You aggravated that
island till the poor thing druv you out!'

"'Well,' says he, and not so meek as I'd have admired to see him, 'how
could I know the darn island was a lady?'

"'Actions speak louder than words,' says I. 'You should have knowed it
by her ladylike behavior!'

"'Is volcanoes and slingin' hot rocks ladylike?' he says. 'Is snakes
ladylike? T'other time I cut my thumb on a tin can, I cussed a little
bit. Say--just a li'l' bit! An' what comes at me out o' all the caves,
and out o' every crack in the rocks, and out o' the very spring o'
water where I'd been drinkin'? Why snakes! _Snakes_, if you please,
big, little, green, red and sky-blue-scarlet! What'd I do? Jumped in
the water, of course. Why wouldn't I? I'd ruther swim and drown than
be stung or swallowed to death. But how was I t' know the snakes come
outta the rocks because I cussed?'

"'You, couldn't,' I agrees, sarcastic. 'Some folks never knows a lady
till she up and whangs 'em over the head with a brick. A real, gentle,
kind-like warning, them snakes were, which you would not heed! Take
shame to yourself, Nelly,' says I, right stern, 'that a decent little
island like Anita can't associate with you peaceable, but you must
hurt her sacredest feelings with language no lady would stand by to
hear!'

"I never did see Anita again. She may have blew herself right out of
the ocean in her just wrath at the vulgar, disgustin' language of
Nelson Smith. I don't know. We was took off the floater at last, and I
lost track of Nelson just as quick as I could when we was landed at
Frisco.

"He had taught me a lesson. A man is just full of mannishness, and the
best of 'em ain't good enough for a lady to sacrifice her
sensibilities to put up with.

"Nelson Smith, he seemed to feel real bad when he learned I was not
for him, and then he apologized. But apologies weren't no use to me. I
could never abide him, after the way he went and talked right in the
presence of me and my poor, sweet lady friend, Anita!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Now I am well versed in the lore of the sea in all ages. Through mists
of time I have enviously eyed wild voyagings of sea rovers who roved
and spun their yarns before the stronger sex came into its own, and
ousted man from his heroic pedestal. I have followed--across the
printed page--the wanderings of Odysseus. Before Gulliver I have
burned the incense of tranced attention; and with reverent awe
considered the history of one Munchausen, a baron. But alas, these
were only men!

In what field is not woman our subtle superior?

Meekly I bowed my head, and when my eyes dared lift again, the ancient
mariness had departed, leaving me to sorrow for my surpassed and
outdone idols. Also with a bill for macaroons and tea of such
incredible proportions that in comparison therewith I found it easy to
believe her story!

       *       *       *       *       *






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Friend Island, by Francis Stevens

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FRIEND ISLAND ***

***** This file should be named 35401.txt or 35401.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/5/4/0/35401/

Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
