The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Beautiful People, by Charles Beaumont

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Beautiful People

Author: Charles Beaumont

Release Date: May 29, 2011 [EBook #36258]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Dianna Adair and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: The Procedure for Becoming Beautiful]

[Illustration: The Main Characters ]

_Mary was a misfit. She didn't want to be beautiful. And she wasted time
doing mad things--like eating and sleeping._




  THE BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE

  By Charles Beaumont


Mary sat quietly and watched the handsome man's legs blown off; watched
further as the great ship began to crumple and break into small pieces
in the middle of the blazing night. She fidgeted slightly as the men and
the parts of the men came floating dreamily through the wreckage out
into the awful silence. And when the meteorite shower came upon the men,
gouging holes through everything, tearing flesh and ripping bones, Mary
closed her eyes.

"Mother."

Mrs. Cuberle glanced up from her magazine.

"Hmm?"

"Do we have to wait much longer?"

"I don't think so. Why?"

Mary said nothing but looked at the moving wall.

"Oh, that." Mrs. Cuberle laughed and shook her head. "That tired old
thing. Read a magazine, Mary, like I'm doing. We've all seen _that_ a
million times."

"Does it have to be on, Mother?"

"Well, nobody seems to be watching. I don't think the doctor would mind
if I switched it off."

Mrs. Cuberle rose from the couch and walked to the wall. She depressed a
little button and the life went from the wall, flickering and glowing.

Mary opened her eyes.

"Honestly," Mrs. Cuberle said to a woman sitting beside her, "you'd
think they'd try to get something else. We might as well go to the
museum and watch the first landing on Mars. The Mayoraka
Disaster--really!"

The woman replied without distracting her eyes from the magazine page.
"It's the doctor's idea. Psychological."

Mrs. Cuberle opened her mouth and moved her head up and down knowingly.

"Ohhh. I should have known there was _some_ reason. Still, who watches
it?"

"The children do. Makes them think, makes them grateful or something."

"Ohhh."

"Psychological."

Mary picked up a magazine and leafed through the pages. All photographs,
of women and men. Women like Mother and like the others in the room;
slender, tanned, shapely, beautiful women; and men with large muscles
and shiny hair. Women and men, all looking alike, all perfect and
beautiful. She folded the magazine and wondered how to answer the
questions that would be asked.

"Mother--"

"Gracious, what is it now! Can't you sit still for a minute?"

"But we've been here three hours."

Mrs. Cuberle sniffed.

"Do--do I really have to?"

"Now don't be silly, Mary. After those terrible things you told me, of
_course_ you do."

An olive-skinned woman in a transparent white uniform came into the
reception room.

"Cuberle. Mrs. Zena Cuberle?"

"Yes."

"Doctor will see you now."

Mrs. Cuberle took Mary's hand and they walked behind the nurse down a
long corridor.

A man who seemed in his middle twenties looked up from a desk. He smiled
and gestured toward two adjoining chairs.

"Well--well."

"Doctor Hortel, I--"


The doctor snapped his fingers.

"Of course, I know. Your daughter. Ha ha, I certainly do know your
trouble. Get so many of them nowadays--takes up most of my time."

"You do?" asked Mrs. Cuberle. "Frankly, it had begun to upset me."

"Upset? Hmm. Not good. Not good at all. Ah, but then--if people did not
get upset, we psychiatrists would be out of a job, eh? Go the way of the
early M. D. But, I assure you, I need hear no more." He turned his
handsome face to Mary. "Little girl, how old are you?"

"Eighteen, sir."

"Oh, a real bit of impatience. It's just about time, of course. What
might your name be?"

"Mary."

"Charming! And so unusual. Well now, Mary, may I say that I understand
your problem--understand it thoroughly?"

Mrs. Cuberle smiled and smoothed the sequins on her blouse.

"Madam, you have no idea how many there are these days. Sometimes it
preys on their minds so that it affects them physically, even mentally.
Makes them act strange, say peculiar, unexpected things. One little girl
I recall was so distraught she did nothing but brood all day long. Can
you imagine!"

"That's what Mary does. When she finally told me, doctor, I thought she
had gone--_you_ know."

"That bad, eh? Afraid we'll have to start a re-education program, very
soon, or they'll all be like this. I believe I'll suggest it to the
senator day after tomorrow."

"I don't quite understand, doctor."

"Simply, Mrs. Cuberle, that the children have got to be thoroughly
instructed. Thoroughly. Too much is taken for granted and childish minds
somehow refuse to accept things without definite reason. Children have
become far too intellectual, which, as I trust I needn't remind you, is
a dangerous thing."

"Yes, but what has this to do with--"

"With Mary? Everything, of course. Mary, like half the sixteen,
seventeen and eighteen year olds today, has begun to feel acutely
self-conscious. She feels that her body has developed sufficiently for
the Transformation--which of course it has not, not quite yet--and she
cannot understand the complex reasons that compel her to wait until some
future date. Mary looks at you, at the women all about her, at the
pictures, and then she looks into a mirror. From pure perfection of
body, face, limbs, pigmentation, carriage, stance, from simon-pure
perfection, if I may be allowed the expression, she sees herself and is
horrified. Isn't that so, my dear child? Of course--of course. She asks
herself, why must I be hideous, unbalanced, oversize, undersize, full of
revolting skin eruptions, badly schemed organically? In short, Mary is
tired of being a monster and is overly anxious to achieve what almost
everyone else has already achieved."

"But--" said Mrs. Cuberle.

"This much you understand, doubtless. Now, Mary, what you object to is
that our society offers you, and the others like you, no convincing
logic on the side of waiting until age nineteen. It is all taken for
granted, and you want to know why! It is that simple. A non-technical
explanation will not suffice--mercy no! The modern child wants facts,
solid technical data, to satisfy her every question. And that, as you
can both see, will take a good deal of reorganizing."

"But--" said Mary.

"The child is upset, nervous, tense; she acts strange, peculiar, odd,
worries you and makes herself ill because it is beyond our meagre powers
to put it across. I tell you, what we need is a whole new basis for
learning. And, that will take doing. It will take _doing_, Mrs.
Cuberle. Now, don't you worry about Mary, and don't _you_ worry, child.
I'll prescribe some pills and--"

"No, no, doctor! You're all mixed up," cried Mrs. Cuberle.

"I beg your pardon, Madam?"

"What I mean is, you've got it wrong. Tell him, Mary, tell the doctor
what you told me."

Mary shifted uneasily in the chair.

"It's that--I don't want it."

The doctor's well-proportioned jaw dropped.

"Would you please repeat that?"

"I said, I don't want the Transformation."

"D--Don't want it?"

"You see? She told me. That's why I came to you."

The doctor looked at Mary suspiciously.

"But that's impossible! I have never heard of such a thing. Little girl,
you are playing a joke!"

Mary nodded negatively.

"See, doctor. What can it be?" Mrs. Cuberle rose and began to pace.


The doctor clucked his tongue and took from a small cupboard a black box
covered with buttons and dials and wire.

"Oh no, you don't think--I mean, could it?"

"We shall soon see." The doctor revolved a number of dials and studied
the single bulb in the center of the box. It did not flicker. He removed
handles from Mary's head.

"Dear me," the doctor said, "dear me. Your daughter is perfectly sane,
Mrs. Cuberle."

"Well, then what is it?"

"Perhaps she is lying. We haven't completely eliminated that factor as
yet; it slips into certain organisms."

More tests. More machines and more negative results.

Mary pushed her foot in a circle on the floor. When the doctor put his
hands to her shoulders, she looked up pleasantly.

"Little girl," said the handsome man, "do you actually mean to tell us
that you _prefer_ that body?"

"Yes sir."

"May I ask why."

"I like it. It's--hard to explain, but it's me and that's what I like.
Not the looks, maybe, but the _me_."

"You can look in the mirror and see yourself, then look at--well, at
your mother and be content?"

"Yes, sir." Mary thought of her reasons; fuzzy, vague, but very
definitely there. Maybe she had said the reason. No. Only a part of it.

"Mrs. Cuberle," the doctor said, "I suggest that your husband have a
long talk with Mary."

"My husband is dead. That affair near Ganymede, I believe. Something
like that."

"Oh, splendid. Rocket man, eh? Very interesting organisms. Something
always seems to happen to rocket men, in one way or another. But--I
suppose we should do something." The doctor scratched his jaw. "When did
she first start talking this way," he asked.

"Oh, for quite some time. I used to think it was because she was such a
baby. But lately, the time getting so close and all, I thought I'd
better see you."

"Of course, yes, very wise. Er--does she also do odd things?"

"Well, I found her on the second level one night. She was lying on the
floor and when I asked her what she was doing, she said she was trying
to sleep."

Mary flinched. She was sorry, in a way, that Mother had found that out.

"To--did you say 'sleep'?"

"That's right."

"Now where could she have picked that up?"

"No idea."

"Mary, don't you know that nobody sleeps anymore? That we have an
infinitely greater life-span than our poor ancestors now that the
wasteful state of unconsciousness has been conquered? Child, have you
actually _slept_? No one knows how anymore."

"No sir, but I almost did."

The doctor sighed. "But, it's unheard of! How could you begin to try to
do something people have forgotten entirely about?"

"The way it was described in the book, it sounded nice, that's all."
Mary was feeling very uncomfortable now. Home and no talking man in a
foolish white gown....

"Book, book? Are there _books_ at your Unit, Madam?"

"There could be--I haven't cleaned up in a while."

"That is certainly peculiar. I haven't seen a book for years. Not since
'17."

Mary began to fidget and stare nervously about.

"But with the tapes, why should you try and read books--where did you
get them?"

"Daddy did. He got them from his father and so did Grandpa. He said
they're better than the tapes and he was right."

Mrs. Cuberle flushed.

"My husband was a little strange, Doctor Hortel. He kept those things
despite everything I said.

"Dear me, I--excuse me."

The muscular, black-haired doctor walked to another cabinet and selected
from the shelf a bottle. From the bottle he took two large pills and
swallowed them.

"Sleep--books--doesn't want the Transformation--Mrs. Cuberle, my _dear_
good woman, this is grave. Doesn't want the Transformation. I would
appreciate it if you would change psychiatrists: I am very busy and, uh,
this is somewhat specialized. I suggest Centraldome. Many fine doctors
there. Goodbye."

The doctor turned and sat down in a large chair and folded his hands.
Mary watched him and wondered why the simple statements should have so
changed things. But the doctor did not move from the chair.

"Well!" said Mrs. Cuberle and walked quickly from the room.

The man's legs were being blown off again as they left the reception
room.


Mary considered the reflection in the mirrored wall. She sat on the
floor and looked at different angles of herself: profile, full-face,
full length, naked, clothed. Then she took up the magazine and studied
it. She sighed.

"Mirror, mirror on the wall--" The words came haltingly to her mind and
from her lips. She hadn't read them, she recalled. Daddy had said them,
quoted them as he put it. But they too were lines from a book--"who is
the fairest of--"

A picture of Mother sat upon the dresser and Mary considered this now.
Looked for a long time at the slender, feminine neck. The golden skin,
smooth and without blemish, without wrinkles and without age. The dark
brown eyes and the thin tapers of eyebrows, the long black lashes, set
evenly, so that each half of the face corresponded precisely. The
half-parted-mouth, a violet tint against the gold, the white, white
teeth, even, sparkling.

Mother. Beautiful, Transformed Mother. And back again to the mirror.

"--of them all...."

The image of a rather chubby girl, without lines of rhythm or grace,
without perfection. Splotchy skin full of little holes, puffs in the
cheeks, red eruptions on the forehead. Perspiration, shapeless hair
flowing onto shapeless shoulders down a shapeless body. Like all of
them, before the Transformation.

Did they _all_ look like this, before? Did Mother, even?

Mary thought hard, trying to remember exactly what Daddy and Grandpa had
said, why they said the Transformation was a bad thing, and why she
believed and agreed with them so strongly. It made little sense, but
they were right. They _were_ right! And one day, she would understand
completely.

Mrs. Cuberle slammed the door angrily and Mary jumped to her feet. She
hadn't forgotten about it. "The way you upset Dr. Hortel. He won't even
see me anymore, and these traumas are getting horrible. I'll have to get
that awful Dr. Wagoner."

"Sorry--"

Mrs. Cuberle sat on the couch and crossed her legs carefully.

"What in the world were you doing on the floor?"

"Trying to sleep."

"Now, I won't hear of it! You've got to stop it! You _know_ you're not
insane. Why should you want to do such a silly thing?"

"The books. And Daddy told me about it."

"And you mustn't read those terrible things."

"Why--is there a law against them?"

"Well, no, but people tired of books when the tapes came in. You know
that. The house is full of tapes; anything you want."

Mary stuck out her lower lip.

"They're no fun. All about the Wars and the colonizations."

"And I suppose books are fun?"

"Yes. They are."

"And that's where you got this idiotic notion that you don't want the
Transformation, isn't it? Of course it is. Well, we'll see to that!"


Mrs. Cuberle rose quickly and took the books from the corner and from
the closet and filled her arms with them. She looked everywhere in the
room and gathered the old rotten volumes.

These she carried from the room and threw into the elevator. A button
guided the doors shut.

"I thought you'd do that," Mary said. "That's why I hid most of the good
ones. Where you'll never find them."

Mrs. Cuberle put a satin handkerchief to her eyes and began to weep.

"Just look at you. Look. I don't know what I ever did to deserve this!"

"Deserve what, Mother? What am I doing that's so wrong?" Mary's mind
rippled in a confused stream.

"What!" Mrs. Cuberle screamed, _"What!_ Do you think I want people to
point to you and say I'm the mother of an idiot? That's what they'll
say, you'll see. Or," she looked up hopefully, "have you changed your
mind?"

"No." The vague reasons, longing to be put into words.

"It doesn't hurt. They just take off a little skin and put some on and
give you pills and electronic treatments and things like that. It
doesn't take more than a week."

"No." The reason.

"Don't you want to be beautiful, like other people--like me? Look at
your friend Shala, she's getting her Transformation next month. And
_she's_ almost pretty now."

"Mother, I don't care--"

"If it's the bones you're worried about, well, that doesn't hurt. They
give you a shot and when you wake up, everything's moulded right.
Everything, to suit the personality."

"I don't care, I don't care."

"But _why_?"

"I like me the way I am." Almost--almost exactly. But not quite. Part of
it, however. Part of what Daddy and Grandpa meant.

"But you're so ugly, dear! Like Dr. Hortel said. And Mr. Willmes, at the
factory. He told some people he thought you were the ugliest girl he'd
ever seen. Says he'll be thankful when you have your Transformation. And
what if he hears of all this, what'll happen then?"

"Daddy said I was beautiful."

"Well really, dear. You _do_ have eyes."

"Daddy said that real beauty is only skin deep. He said a lot of things
like that and when I read the books I felt the same way. I guess I don't
want to look like everybody else, that's all." No, that's not it. Not at
all it.

"That man had too much to do with you. You'll notice that he had _his_
Transformation, though!"

"But he was sorry. He told me that if he had it to do over again, he'd
never do it. He said for me to be stronger than he was."

"Well, I won't have it. You're not going to get away with this, young
lady. After all, I _am_ your mother."

A bulb flickered in the bathroom and Mrs. Cuberle walked uncertainly to
the cabinet. She took out a little cardboard box.

"Time for lunch."

Mary nodded. That was another thing the books talked about, which the
tapes did not. Lunch seemed to be something special long ago, or at
least different. The books talked of strange ways of putting a load of
things into the mouth and chewing these things. Enjoying them. Strange
and somehow wonderful.

"And you'd better get ready for work."

"Yes, Mother."


The office was quiet and without shadows. The walls gave off a steady
luminescence, distributed the light evenly upon all the desks and
tables. And it was neither hot nor cold.

Mary held the ruler firmly and allowed the pen to travel down the metal
edge effortlessly. The new black lines were small and accurate. She
tipped her head, compared the notes beside her to the plan she was
working on. She noticed the beautiful people looking at her more
furtively than before, and she wondered about this as she made her
lines.

A tall man rose from his desk in the rear of the office and walked down
the aisle to Mary's table. He surveyed her work, allowing his eyes to
travel cautiously from her face to the draft.

Mary looked around.

"Nice job," said the man.

"Thank you, Mr. Willmes."

"Dralich shouldn't have anything to complain about. That crane should
hold the whole damn city."

"It's very good alloy, sir."

"Yeah. Say, kid, you got a minute?"

"Yes sir."

"Let's go into Mullinson's office."

The big handsome man led the way into a small cubby-hole of a room. He
motioned to a chair and sat on the edge of one desk.

"Kid, I never was one to beat around the bush. Somebody called in little
while ago, gave me some crazy story about you not wanting the
Transformation."

Mary said "Oh." Daddy had said it would have to happen, some day. This
must be what he meant.

"I would've told them they were way off the beam, but I wanted to talk
to you first, get it straight."

"Well, sir, it's true. I don't. I want to stay this way."

The man looked at Mary and then coughed, embarrassedly.

"What the hell--excuse me, kid, but--I don't exactly get it. You, uh,
you saw the psychiatrist?"

"Yes sir. I'm not insane. Dr. Hortel can tell you."

"I didn't mean anything like that. Well--" the man laughed nervously. "I
don't know what to say. You're still a cub, but you do swell work. Lot
of good results, lots of comments from the stations. But, Mr. Poole
won't like it."

"I know. I know what you mean, Mr. Willmes. But nothing can change my
mind. I want to stay this way and that's all there is to it."

"But--you'll get old before you're half through life."

Yes, she would. Old, like the Elders, wrinkled and brittle, unable to
move right. Old. "It's hard to make you understand. But I don't see why
it should make any difference."

"Don't go getting me wrong, now. It's not me, but, you know, I don't own
Interplan. I just work here. Mr. Poole likes things running smooth and
it's my job to carry it out. And soon as everybody finds out, things
wouldn't run smooth. There'll be a big stink. The dames will start
asking questions and talk."

"Will you accept my resignation, then, Mr. Willmes?"

"Sure you won't change your mind?"

"No sir. I decided that a long time ago. And I'm sorry now that I told
Mother or anyone else. No sir, I won't change my mind."

"Well, I'm sorry, Mary. You been doing awful swell work. Couple of
years you could be centralled on one of the asteroids, the way you been
working. But if you should change your mind, there'll always be a job
for you here."

"Thank you, sir."

"No hard feelings?"

"No hard feelings."

"Okay then. You've got till March. And between you and me, I hope by
then you've decided the other way."

Mary walked back down the aisle, past the rows of desks. Past the men
and women. The handsome, model men and the beautiful, perfect women,
perfect, all perfect, all looking alike. Looking exactly alike.

She sat down again and took up her ruler and pen.


Mary stepped into the elevator and descended several hundred feet. At
the Second Level she pressed a button and the elevator stopped. The
doors opened with another button and the doors to her Unit with still
another.

Mrs. Cuberle sat on the floor by the T-V, disconsolate and red-eyed. Her
blond hair had come slightly askew and a few strands hung over her
forehead. "You don't need to tell me. No one will hire you."

Mary sat beside her mother. "If you only hadn't told Mr. Willmes in the
first place--"

"Well, I thought _he_ could beat a little sense into you."

The sounds from the T-V grew louder. Mrs. Cuberle changed channels and
finally turned it off.

"What did you do today, Mother?" Mary smiled.

"Do? What can I do, now? Nobody will even come over! I told you what
would happen."

"Mother!"

"They say you should be in the Circuses."

Mary went into another room. Mrs. Cuberle followed. "How are we going to
live? Where does the money come from now? Just because you're stubborn
on this crazy idea. Crazy crazy crazy! Can I support both of us? They'll
be firing _me_, next!"

"Why is this happening?"

"Because of you, that's why. Nobody else on this planet has ever refused
the Transformation. But you turn it down. You _want_ to be ugly!"

Mary put her arms about her mother's shoulders. "I wish I could explain,
I've tried so hard to. It isn't that I want to bother anyone, or that
Daddy wanted me to. I just don't want the Transformation."

Mrs. Cuberle reached into the pockets of her blouse and got a purple
pill. She swallowed the pill. When the letter dropped from the chute,
Mrs. Cuberle ran to snatch it up. She read it once, silently, then
smiled.

"Oh, I was afraid they wouldn't answer. But we'll see about this _now_!"

She gave the letter to Mary.


  _Mrs. Zena Cuberle
  Unit 451 D
  Levels II & III
  City
  Dear Madam:_

     _In re your letter of Dec 3 36. We have carefully examined your
     complaint and consider that it requires stringent measures. Quite
     frankly, the possibility of such a complaint has never occurred to
     this Dept. and we therefore cannot make positive directives at the
     moment._

     _However, due to the unusual qualities of the matter, we have
     arranged an audience at Centraldome, Eighth Level, Sixteenth Unit,
     Jan 3 37, 23 sharp. Dr. Elph Hortel has been instructed to attend.
     You will bring the subject in question._

  _Yrs,
  DEPT F_


Mary let the paper flutter to the floor. She walked quietly to the
elevator and set it for Level III. When the elevator stopped, she ran
from it, crying, into her room.

She thought and remembered and tried to sort out and put together. Daddy
had said it, Grandpa had, the books did. Yes, the books did.

She read until her eyes burned and her eyes burned until she could read
no more. Then Mary went to sleep, softly and without realizing it, for
the first time.

But the sleep was not peaceful.


"Ladies and gentlemen," said the young-looking, well groomed man, "this
problem does not resolve easily. Dr. Hortel here, testifies that Mary
Cuberle is definitely not insane. Drs. Monagh, Prinn and Fedders all
verify this judgment. Dr. Prinn asserts that the human organism is no
longer so constructed as to create and sustain such an attitude through
deliberate falsehood. Further, there is positively nothing in the
structure of Mary Cuberle which might suggest difficulties in
Transformation. There is evidence for all these statements. And yet we
are faced with this refusal. What, may I ask, is to be done?"

Mary looked at a metal table.

"We have been in session far too long, holding up far too many other
pressing contingencies. The trouble on Mercury, for example. We'll
_have_ to straighten that out, somehow."

Throughout the rows of beautiful people, the mumbling increased. Mrs.
Cuberle sat nervously, tapping her shoe and running a comb through her
hair.

"Mary Cuberle, you have been given innumerable chances to reconsider,
you know."

Mary said, "I know. But I don't want to."

The beautiful people looked at Mary and laughed. Some shook their heads.

The man threw up his hands. "Little girl, can you realize what an issue
you have caused? The unrest, the wasted time? Do you fully understand
what you have done? Intergalactic questions hang fire while you sit
there saying the same thing over and over. Doesn't the happiness of your
Mother mean anything to you?"

A slender, supple woman in a back row cried, "We want action. _Do_
something!"

The man in the high stool raised his hand. "None of that, now. We must
conform, even though the question is out of the ordinary." He leafed
through a number of papers on his desk, leaned down and whispered into
the ear of a strong blond man. Then he turned to Mary again. "Child,
for the last time. Do you reconsider? Will you accept the
Transformation?"

"No."

The man shrugged his shoulders. "Very well, then. I have here a
petition, signed by two thousand individuals and representing all the
Stations of Earth. They have been made aware of all the facts and have
submitted the petition voluntarily. It's all so unusual and I'd hoped we
wouldn't have to--but the petition urges drastic measures."

The mumbling rose.

"The petition urges that you shall, upon final refusal, be forced by law
to accept the Transformation. And that an act of legislature shall make
this universal and binding in the future."

Mary's eyes were open, wide. She stood and paused before speaking.

"Why?" she asked, loudly.

The man passed a hand through his hair.

Another voice from the crowd, "Seems to be a lot of questions unanswered
here."

And another, "Sign the petition, Senator!"

All the voices, "Sign it, sign it!"

"But why?" Mary began to cry. The voices stilled for a moment.

"Because--Because--"

"If you'd only tell me that. Tell me!"

"Why, it simply isn't being done, that's all. The greatest gift of all,
and what if others should get the same idea? What would happen to us
then, little girl? We'd be right back to the ugly, thin, fat,
unhealthy-looking race we were ages ago! There can't be any exceptions."

"Maybe they didn't consider themselves so ugly."

The mumbling began anew.

"That isn't the point," cried the man. "You _must_ conform!"

And the voices cried "Yes" loudly until the man took up a pen and signed
the papers on his desk.

Cheers, applause, shouts.

Mrs. Cuberle patted Mary on the top of her head.

"There, now!" she said, happily, "Everything will be all right now.
You'll see, Mary."


The Transformation Parlor Covered the entire Level, sprawling with its
departments. It was always filled and there was nothing to sign and no
money to pay and people were always waiting in line.

But today the people stood aside. And there were still more, looking in
through doors, TV cameras placed throughout the tape machines in every
corner. It was filled, but not bustling as usual.

Mary walked past the people, Mother and the men in back of her,
following. She looked at the people. The people were beautiful, perfect,
without a single flaw.

All the beautiful people. All the ugly people, staring out from bodies
that were not theirs. Walking on legs that had been made for them,
laughing with manufactured voices, gesturing with shaped and fashioned
arms.

Mary walked slowly, despite the prodding. In her eyes, in _her_ eyes,
was a mounting confusion; a wide, wide wonderment.

The reason was becoming less vague; the fuzzed edges were falling away
now. Through all the horrible months and all the horrible moments, the
edges fell away. Now it was almost clear.

She looked down at her own body, then at the walls which reflected it.
Flesh of her flesh, bone of her bone, all hers, made by no one, built by
herself or someone she did not know. Uneven kneecaps, making two
grinning cherubs when they bent, and the old familiar rubbing together
of fat inner thighs. Fat, unshapely, unsystematic Mary. But _Mary_.

Of course. Of course! This _was_ what Daddy meant, what Grandpa and the
books meant. What _they_ would know if they would read the books or hear
the words, the good, reasonable words, the words that signified more,
much more, than any of this.

The understanding heaped up with each step.

"Where _are_ these people?" Mary asked half to herself. "What has
happened to _them_ and don't they miss _themselves_, these manufactured
things?"

She stopped, suddenly.

"Yes! That _is_ the reason. They have all forgotten themselves!"

A curvacious woman stepped forward and took Mary's hand. The woman's
skin was tinted dark. Chipped and sculptured bone into slender rhythmic
lines, electrically created carriage, stance, made, turned out.

"All right, young lady. We will begin."

They guided Mary to a large, curved leather seat.

From the top of a long silver pole a machine lowered itself. Tiny bulbs
glowed to life and cells began to click. The people stared. Slowly a
picture formed upon the screen in the machine. Bulbs directed at Mary,
then redirected into the machine. Wheels turning, buttons ticking.

The picture was completed.

"Would you like to see it?"

Mary closed her eyes, tight.

"It's really very nice." The woman turned to the crowd. "Oh yes, there's
a great deal to be salvaged; you'd be surprised. A great deal. We'll
keep the nose and I don't believe the elbows will have to be altered at
all."

Mrs. Cuberle looked at Mary and smiled. "Now, it isn't so bad as you
thought, is it?" she said.

The beautiful people looked. Cameras turned, tapes wound.

"You'll have to excuse us now. Only the machines allowed."

_Only the machines._

The people filed out.

Mary saw the rooms in the mirror. Saw things in the rooms, the faces and
bodies that had been left; the woman and the machines and the old young
men standing about, adjusting, readying.

Then she looked at the picture in the screen.

And screamed.

A woman of medium height stared back at her. A woman with a curved body
and thin legs; silver hair, pompadoured, cut short; full sensuous lips,
small breasts, flat stomach, unblemished skin.

A strange, strange woman no one had ever seen before.

The nurse began to take Mary's clothes off.

"Geoff," the woman said, "come look at this, will you. Not one so bad
in years. Amazing that we can keep anything at all."

The handsome man put his hands in his pockets.

"Pretty bad, all right."

"Be still, child, stop making those noises. You know perfectly well
nothing is going to hurt."

"But--what will you do with me?"

"That was all explained to you."

"No, no, with _me_, _me_!"

"Oh, you mean the castoffs. The usual. I don't know exactly. Somebody
takes care of it."

"I want me!" Mary cried. "Not that!" She pointed at the screen.


Her chair was wheeled into a semi-dark room. She was naked now, and the
men lifted her to a table. The surface was like glass, black, filmed. A
big machine hung above.

Straps. Clamps pulling, stretching limbs apart. The screen with the
picture brought in. The men and the woman, more women now. Dr. Hortel in
a corner, sitting with his legs crossed, shaking his head.

Mary began to cry above the hum of the mechanical things.

"Shhh. My gracious, such a racket! Just think about your job waiting for
you, and all the friends you'll have and how nice everything will be. No
more trouble now."

The big machine hurtling downward.

"Where will I find _me_?" Mary screamed, "when it's all over?"

A long needle slid into rough flesh and the beautiful people gathered
around the table.

They turned on the big machine.

THE END


       *       *       *       *       *


Transcriber's Notes:

This etext was produced from If Worlds of Science Fiction September
1952. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication was renewed.

    Page 11: quote mark removed:
    original text:  Dr. Hortel said. "And Mr. Willmes,
    corrected test: Dr. Hortel said. And Mr. Willmes,





End of Project Gutenberg's The Beautiful People, by Charles Beaumont

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE ***

***** This file should be named 36258.txt or 36258.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/6/2/5/36258/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Dianna Adair and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
