The Project Gutenberg EBook of The God-Plllnk, by Jerome Bixby

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: The God-Plllnk

Author: Jerome Bixby

Illustrator: Bruno

Release Date: September 12, 2016 [EBook #53034]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GOD-PLLLNK ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            THE GOD-PLLLNK

                            BY JEROME BIXBY

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                   Worlds of Tomorrow December 1963
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




           Astronauts and cosmonauts! When you finally reach
           Mars, please be very careful what you look like!


In the shadows of a crater-wall on Phobos, moon of Mars, Grg and Yrl
waited to greet the God.

If the God continued its present rate of approach, it would land within
moments.

Grg and Yrl had journeyed all night, with their eyes on that distant
glinting speck in the sky. Over cold-crusted sand dunes and jagged
crater walls they had flowed, crept, bounded, oozed, toward the spot
where the God must land if its course held true.

Grg was a Fsgh, which is the equivalent of High Priest, Yrl was a
Ffssgghh, or Much Higher Priest. The best wishes of their people had
gone with them on their tremendous mission.

Now, at the place, they trembled in every tentacle as they peered
upward. The rust-red orb of Mars rode the black horizon.

Mars was, as Grg and Yrl had learned from their Elders and now taught
their Youngers, the stern Seeing-All Eye of It Who Was the Universe.

From that great Eye, a day ago, had sprung a shining Messenger, an
Emissary, a God that must be coming on a purposeful visit.

It had been detected at the half-way point of its trip. But there
could be no doubt regarding its origin, its nature, its destination--

For, in the matter of form, the God was a close replica of Grg and
Yrl--of all the creatures of their race! It was octopidal, with sinewy
double tentacles, and a thinking trunk, and a reproduction pouch!

The only significant difference was that the God gleamed mysteriously,
as if its angular, hard-line representation of normal form were cast in
shining stone. As it flew it reflected starlight--and the red glow of
the Universal Eye behind it--from its sleek surfaces.

Grg and Yrl blinked their own dull-surfaced, astronomically
far-sighted, rust-red eyes at each other in supreme excitement and
anticipation.

What would the God tell them? What would it reveal? Would it divulge
the Cosmic Secret? Would it tell them the place and destiny of their
lowly race? Had it come to punish them for not being good enough, for
over-reproducing, for worshipping improperly?

From a selfish standpoint, it might even tell them how to get rid of
the _plllnk_--a subject of constant prayer.

How smoothly it flew! While Grg and Yrl and their people could bound
about with a great agility in Phobos' light gravity, they could not
_fly_.

"How wonderful it would be to fly," said Yrl.

"Perhaps," said Grg, "we have been found ready to be taught!"

Then Grg twitched as a _plllnk_ bit him, just under the front left
double-tentacle. He combed the light fur there, found the _plllnk_,
and shredded it, casting the pieces round-about so that no two of them
might combine to form another _plllnk_.

How wonderful it would be also if the God could tell them how to get
rid of the itching, crawling, parasitic _plllnk_, whose bite, in
sufficient numbers, was often fatal!...

The God began to land.

It shot red flame downward from its mouth, on the underside of its
gleaming body. Red flickers and sharp-edged black shadows danced about
the two who waited below. They shrank back, fearful that the display
might be a disapproving communication--yet they held their ground,
knowing they had lived good lives and deserved no condemnation on any
score they could imagine.

The God lowered, on its belching tongue of flame--the flame that seemed
a tiny part, a sliver, of the Universal Eye that Watched.

Strange marks were on the side of the God's body. They were: 1st MARS
EXPEDITION--U. S. SPACE FORCE--PLANET-TO-SATELLITE CREWBOAT NO. 2.

       *       *       *       *       *

The last few moments of the God's descent were quite rapid.
Simultaneously, the darting red flames seemed to lessen in intensity
and length. Then, at the second of impact, they brightened again to
previous power--but too late. The impact was hard.

Grg and Yrl gasped as one of the God's double-tentacles buckled,
crumpled, with a glinting of shiny-hard material. The flames stopped.

The God, unable to remain erect with its injury, slowly toppled. Its
body thudded silently, stirring pumice dust. It was motionless.

Grg and Yrl stared at each other.

Was the God fatally injured? Dying? Dead? (For a broken tentacle meant
that fluids would seep out, and soon the dry-death would occur.)

The God stirred.

It braced two sets of tentacles against the ground, as if trying
to push itself erect. The effort was not successful. Again it
was motionless. The two double-tentacles remained outstretched,
however--and they pointed at the shadows where Grg and Yrl waited and
watched.

Grg and Yrl sighed in relief.

The God had assumed conversation-position.

It must have healed its broken tentacle--truly a God! Soon it would be
as good as new; for otherwise, agony would forbid conversation.

It was ready to address them. Now.

This was the greatest moment of Grg's and Yrl's lives.

They waited for the God to speak.

It was silent.

A long time passed. The God remained motionless, though in
conversation-position, and silent. A _very_ long time passed.

Then a tiny hole appeared in the God's side. It grew
larger--larger--and then it stopped growing larger.

Something appeared at the hole. It paused, then dropped to the surface
of Phobos, where it began to crawl about.

It bore considerable resemblance to a _plllnk_, except for its
shiny-wrinkled grey skin (_plllnks_ were purple.) And this thing was
huge--_Huge_. It was one-fifth the size of the God's body.

Caught by horror, and fearing the worst, Grg and Yrl waited for the God
to speak.

(_Damn_, John Cotter was thinking. _That was a neat bit of sloppiness,
that landing.... Carruthers will chew me out and in again!_ Pause:
_Holy cats, I hope the radio isn't busted, or I'll have a helluva wait
before they follow up and find me!..._)

       *       *       *       *       *

The God was dead.

Killed by the giant _plllnk_--a scourge from which, evidently, even
the Gods were not spared. The huge _plllnk_, even now creeping
around--wrinkle-skinned and detestable, its coloration the same as the
God's; the most loathsome sight imaginable ... a god-_plllnk_!

Grg and Yrl moved into view, from the shadows of the crater wall.
Their thinking trunks tingled with misery, sorrow, bitter anger and
disappointment.

The _plllnk_ stopped, having sensed them. Then it darted for the hole
it had eaten in the God.

Yrl moved to intercept it. The _plllnk_ changed course and headed
swiftly up a sand dune. With a great bound, impelled by outrage, Yrl
was upon it.

While Grg touched tentacles with the dead God, in reverent mourning,
in terrible sorrow, in loss, in supplication, Yrl shredded the
god-_plllnk_.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two days later, a second God was detected. It silently circled Phobos
from the Universal Eye.

It did not land. It silently circled Phobos, and then returned to the
Eye.

Within the day, it was back, in the company of eleven other Gods. They
landed. Joyfully, mortals went forth to meet them.

It was quite a battle while it lasted.

Joy quickly ended, as the Gods died one by one, each of them showing
the holes eaten in their sides by the insatiable _plllnks_.

Likewise, eventually, died all the _plllnks_, which presumably had
killed the Gods. They fought with strange white flares and crackling
blue flashes, which only tickled the hides of the faithful. Then they
were shredded.

Religious beliefs on Phobos underwent certain basic changes. Such as:
the Gods, or at least their Messengers, were known not to be immortal.

Nor were the special variety of _plllnk_ which afflicted them....

On Earth, twenty years afterward, word is anxiously awaited of the 4th
Mars Expedition.

END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The God-Plllnk, by Jerome Bixby

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GOD-PLLLNK ***

***** This file should be named 53034.txt or 53034.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/3/0/3/53034/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
