The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Creature Inside, by Jack Sharkey

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: The Creature Inside

Author: Jack Sharkey

Illustrator: Bruno
             Wallace Wood

Release Date: September 19, 2016 [EBook #53089]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CREATURE INSIDE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          The Creature Inside

                            BY JACK SHARKEY

                          ILLUSTRATED BY WOOD

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                   Worlds of Tomorrow December 1963
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                The room was small, but it held a whole
              universe--and Norcriss had no place in it!


I

"How much did they tell you about the fix we're in?" said Dr. Alan
Burgess to his visitor.

Lieutenant Jerry Norcriss shook his head. "They said you'd fill me in.
They said it was urgent."

Burgess paused, lighted a cigarette, then belatedly offered one to
Jerry, who declined. "Well," he said, interspersing his words with
short nervous puffs of smoke, "about a year ago, I stumbled on a
way to reverse the process of an electro-encephalograph, to play
pre-recorded thoughts and experiences to a man's mind. You zoologists,
with your Contact process for penetrating newly discovered fauna's
minds, will be familiar with the process. Luckily for us."

Jerry eyed him. "Go on."

"My development involves an infinitely selective feedback. We give the
subject a saturating dose of inflowing concepts. His mind is free
to choose among them and to link them. Take 'bigness, affluence and
danger' for an instance. The subject puts them together and fleshes
them out. He could experience a large, expensive fission bomb falling
onto him, or he could be sacrificed to an immense golden idol, or--Or
anything that his inner mind chose."

"I begin to understand," said Jerry. "The overlay influences all
the senses. The subject thinks he's _really_ undergoing whatever he
conjures up--and you use it for therapy, letting him work off his
aggressions and frustrations in what seems to him an actual universe."

"Correct, except for the tense," said Alan Burgess. "I _was_ doing
that until Monday of this week." He leaned forward across the desk.
"We screen the subjects carefully, because certain psychoses could be
disastrous to the subject in my device. Paranoia, for instance. The
man would be amid unutterable horrors, with danger on every side; he'd
emerge a gibbering idiot, if he didn't die of heart failure first."

"Emerge?" asked Jerry, frowning. "I'd assumed you used a helmet, such
as we do in Contact...."

Burgess sighed. "Unfortunately, I am paying the penalty of lone-wolf
experimentation. I wish I'd had the sense to route the input to the
brain through a helmet, but I didn't. Instead I installed the person in
an observation room. The influencing factor was nutrition. Intravenous
feedings wouldn't have served the purpose of the observer; sometimes
the subject's choice of foodstuffs is significant. He had to be let
move about, his mind in a make-believe world, but his body actually
moving about a room we could see into. So--I had an atomic duplicator
installed. The hospital got one last year for making radium, turning
cancerous growths into normal flesh, regrowing bone and the like.

"Should the subject then grow hungry, the duplicator would be triggered
by his conviction of eating. In his mind, he might be--hanging from
a branch by his tail, for instance. The duplicator's production of
bananas, coconuts or whatever would give us a further clue to his state
of mind. You see?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"So far, sound enough, Dr. Burgess," said Jerry. "So what went wrong? I
assume something did, or I wouldn't be here."

"We made a terrible error. We tried observing a man named Anthony
Mawson in our gadget. I'd diagnosed his case as simple inferiority
complex. My fault. Wrong diagnosis. Mawson has megalomania, a gorgeous
case of it ... of course, he's not the first such case to fool
psychiatrists. You see, his outward shyness, soft-spoken voice and
general gawkishness is due to feeling superior to others, not the
reverse. He feels smarter, stronger, braver, etcetera, than everybody
else in creation--but he also feels that nobody knows it but himself.
Hence his indrawing, his brooding, taciturn gentility."

Jerry Norcriss prodded. "What happened with Mawson when you put him in
your machine?"

"I don't know," said Burgess. "No one's been able to see into the
machine since he entered it on Monday."

"He couldn't have escaped?"

"No! I wish he had. Anthony Mawson is still in that room, in his own
private universe, and we can't get him out of it. We've tried cutting
the power to the machine; the opacity inside the room remains. We sent
two men in after him. They never came out."

"How could he possibly?" asked Jerry.

Burgess shook his head. "We can only guess. Our theory is that he's
used the duplicator to make the entire room self-sustaining. Normally
we could wait till he runs out of material to feed the duplicator,
but--we can't wait on the lives of those two men. Nor can we chance his
expanding his universe."

Norcriss frowned. "Expanding it?"

Burgess nodded. "By, perhaps, feeding the duplicator with the room
itself. With a pickaxe, he can start hewing down the very walls, or
even have the duplicator build a robot that will take care of its
need for material to build with. Against this development, we have
surrounded the room completely with a force-shield, limiting his
outward progress to two feet of concrete in any direction. But the room
is approximately thirty feet square, and twenty feet high. With all
that mass he could exist in there for years."

"And my job is to get him out," said Jerry.

"Yes. The government feels that a Contact specialist's the only
kind of man to send into this madman's world. You men are used to
extra-somatic experiences--and you have learned to live with danger
without losing your heads."

"Well," said Jerry, getting up, "I guess that sums up the situation
sufficiently."

Burgess nodded, sadly. "Any further briefing is useless. Impossible,
really. I've told you the situation, and you can certainly imagine the
danger. But as for the solution, well.... You'll just have to feel your
way, and do whatever you think best."

Jerry paused beside Burgess at the door to the hall. "One thing,
though, Doctor; when _I_ get into the influence of the machine, what
kind of universe will I be in? Mine or Mawson's?"

"I can only theorize on that," said Burgess. "My guess would be that
you'll find both in there, one vying for supremacy over the other. This
fight won't be man to man. It will be universe against universe."


II

There had been no sensation at all as Jerry stepped through the flat
sheet of grayness in the doorway; no more physical awareness than
a blind man might feel when passing through the beam of a powerful
light. Perhaps there was a slight sensation of the mere presence of the
energies that kept the opacity in existence--but that sensation, Jerry
knew, was psychological, not actual.

"Although," he realized, as his world became an infinity of opalescent
gray, "in this place, a psychological awareness will be no different
from a genuine physical sensation. Better be careful what I think about
in this psychokinetic fog...."

The thought was barely formulated when the grayness changed. It became
moist against his flesh, and started swirling in tendrils about him.
"Damn it, be _careful_!" he belatedly cautioned his mind. "Now the
stuff _is_ fog!" Ahead of him in the swirling mist a brighter-than-gray
glow led his footsteps forward.

He found himself standing beneath an overhanging marquee. Its black
undersurface was runneled with condensed moisture amid the garish naked
bulbs that haloed the wet cement sidewalk.

A red-coated doorman, resplendent behind rows of bright brassy buttons,
gave him a smile as he pulled open the door that led to the club. Jerry
nodded and went inside.

Thick crimson carpet cushioned his footfalls as he moved cautiously
through an empty lobby, then down a white marble staircase toward the
ballroom. Dimly, he was aware that the band at the far end of the
mammoth room was playing music. What song he didn't know until a chance
chording reminded him of a popular song of the day ... at which point
that suddenly was the tune. The tables ringing the dance floor were
covered with bright linen and shining silver. The tables were empty
of patrons, however, until Jerry casually thought, "I should think
business would be better--"

Suddenly a horde of laughing couples appeared in the chairs, with
hurrying waiters bringing champagne, trays and menus to their guests.

The men wore tuxedos; the women were in evening dress. He looked
suddenly at himself, and saw that his uniform was now the official
dress uniform of the Space Corps. Before he could conquer it, his mind
voiced a quick wish that he shouldn't be dining alone; and then a girl
was rising from her place at a table beside the dance floor, hurrying
to greet him, hands outstretched.

Her fingers were small and strong and warm. She smiled up at him.
"Jerry, darling."

       *       *       *       *       *

Despite her being only arm's length from him, he could not see her
well at all. His impression was merely one of youth, loveliness and
girl-ness. But then, as he tried to ascertain precisely what she looked
like, hidden corners of his mind began to supply each detail an instant
before his conscious quest for it and Jerry, in a few moments, was
suddenly staggered with delighted shock.

Very few men are privileged to find a girl who lives up to all their
dreams of perfection in a woman.

Hair as soft as cobweb, as fluffy as dancing clouds, as golden as
flowing honey, cascaded down about a slender alabaster throat, and died
in golden ripples on smooth white shoulders. Eyes the rich brown of
raw chocolate gazed serenely at him from under red-gold brows and jet
lashes, their patrician serenity permeated with a touch of twinkling
impishness. Her lips were soft and not unlike berry-stained velvet,
sweet and warm and tempting; her mouth generous and tilted at the
corners into a smile of greeting--obviously the result of her subduing
a frank laugh of joy at seeing him. Geometrically perfect teeth flashed
white as porcelain between her lips. Her gown was a shimmering midnight
blue, highlighted with random sprinkles of brightly coruscating gems.

Even as his lips parted to ask her name, Jerry knew it and spoke it
softly. "Carol."

"Listen," she said softly, tilting her head toward where the band had
begun a new song. Swift, urgent and rapturous, it floated through the
room, surrounded the two of them, took possession of them. Then Carol
was in his arms, and Jerry was dancing out onto the floor with her. The
other couples were a blur of forgotten figures that swayed.

Jerry knew the melody. It was their song, their own private love
song, the one that had been playing on the night when they both knew,
suddenly, that there could be no one else for either of them but the
other....

As they returned to their table, Jerry realized that Carol was now
garbed in a white peasant blouse and bright flowered flaring skirt, and
that her hair was drawn back at the temples to expose her ears, now
adorned with golden hoops. The table was in a lattice-backed booth,
covered with a red-and-white checkered cloth. The inner surface of the
table held salt, pepper, grated cheese and breadsticks, matching cruets
of pale olive oil and dark vinegar. The band was now a five-man gypsy
ensemble.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Remember the first time we came here, Jerry?" asked Carol, her eyes at
once upon his face and distant, dreamy....

As she smiled, Jerry noticed with dull horror that one of her eyes was
perceptibly lower than the other.

The teeth she flashed his way were mottled with brown stains. She took
hold of his fingers with her own.

"Carol!" he said shakily, staring at the knuckly, red-raw hands that
clutched at his. "What's happening?"

"Happening?" she said, her voice a raucous croak of amusement.
"_Nothing's_ happening! In fact, you're probably one of the dullest
guys I ever got stuck with." She tossed her head petulantly. Coarse,
straw-colored hair flipped away from her thick neck. Her breath was
sour with wine and miasmic with garlic.

"Carol!" he cried.

"Don't whine!" she snapped, viciously. "I hate a guy who whines!" With
that, she shoved out of the booth, and waddled toward the rear of the
coffeehouse, one hand scratching at a bulge of flesh that overhung
the too-tight girdle. Her black leotards were twisted and dull as she
passed the flashing rainbow lights of the brassy jukebox.

Jerry shoved away from the table, overturning his coffee in its cracked
china cup, and he wove his way through the reek and smoke toward the
door through which she'd vanished.

When he got there, the door was a peeling poster on a bare brick wall,
advertising some long-forgotten show. His fingers scrabbled on rough
mortar for a moment. Then he turned and paced back to his cot, where he
flopped on his back in the long shadows of the bars.

"Norcriss!" said the guard, coming into the cell. "This is it!" The
brass uniform buttons flashed brightly.

Strong hands were lifting him from the cot, dragging him down a long
corridor toward a steel door. As they got there, the door opened wide,
and Jerry saw the gaping maw of hungry steel gears, while behind him a
man's voice droned prayers.

Then, before the guard could shove Jerry forward into that waiting
mechanical mouth, Jerry noticed the odd shimmer of grayness that lay
between himself and the waiting teeth, and he remembered that he was in
a world of illusion.

At precisely that moment he knew beyond a doubt that those waiting
jaws were illusion in form only. An atomic duplicator does not have to
chew its intake. It merely dissolves the atomic bonds with the rays
that flash between its power plates on either side of the disruption
platform. The waiting mouth and teeth were mere symbols in Jerry's mind
of what was about to occur.

They were unreal--but they could be fatal.

       *       *       *       *       *

He shut his eyes, shoved backward with his feet, and thought of Carol
as he'd first glimpsed her.

When he opened his eyes once more, she was standing before him in her
ballroom gown again, and the band was just beginning to play their
song once more.

"Jerry," she said, taking his arm. "Dance with me."

"No. We're in danger here. Come on, I'll get your coat. We've got to go
away quickly."

A spark of alarm showed briefly in her eyes. Then she nodded wordlessly
and hurried up the marble staircase with him to the lobby. Jerry got
her coat from the check-room--a marvelous silvery fur that covered
her from neck to waist--and then they were heading out into the fog
together.

"Good evening to you, sir," said the doorman, eyes and buttons bright.

Jerry grunted and led Carol off down the street into the fog.

"Where are we going?" she asked, breathlessly trying to keep pace.

"Away, I hope," he said. Even their movement from the ballroom could
be sheer illusion. Jerry tried moving from the club entrance in the
exact reverse of the motion in which he'd first approached it, trying
to achieve the real doorway that led from the experimental room into
the antiseptic hospital corridor where Burgess waited. But the fog
continued to be fog. It would not take on the form of that intangible
gray shimmering that guarded the entrance to Anthony Mawson's
megalomaniac universe.

"If I could only see where--" he began.

Then every tendril of fog was gone.

Before him lay the cold blackness of outer space, pinpointed with
hard, unwinking stars. Jerry recoiled from the viewplate, shaken, and
turned around to see Carol. Her eyes were wide and startled as she
glanced about at the metal confines of the control cabin. Jerry had
just time enough to think how incongruous she looked in her fur jacket
and long blueblack gown ... and then she was clothed in the neat gray
uniform of the WASP, trim short-sleeved shirt and sharply creased
shorts.

"Jerry," said Carol. She slipped her arm through his, staring at the
infinite stars in the viewplate. "What are we running from?"

He tried to think, but could not remember. "There's--some danger behind
us. We have to get away from it, Carol. It means complete destruction
if we're caught."

Carol stared helplessly at the stars in the viewplate. "But where are
we running to?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Jerry shook his head. "Impossible to tell. Not without the help of a
good astrogator. Out in space, stars shift and magnitudes change. I'm
not even qualified to guess--"

"Sire," said the astrogator, handing a clipboard to Jerry, "we can
reach any of these seven stars in a few hours. Just tell me where you'd
prefer to go."

Jerry turned to the man, resplendent in his neat Space Corps uniform,
jacket bright with brass buttons. When he tried to focus upon the man's
features he could detect nothing.

"We'd better choose the quickest trip," Jerry said, after a moment's
indecision. "No telling how much fuel we have left."

The astrogator nodded. "I'm afraid that's out of my department, all
right, sir. But if _you'd_ care to check the tanks?" Without waiting
for a reply, the man turned and began to pick his way carefully toward
the rear of the spaceship, stepping from girder to girder. The floor,
Jerry noticed idly as he followed, was exposed to open space between
the curving ribs of steel that formed the framework of the ship.

"Careful, now," he said, helping Carol along from one to the other.
"That's vacuum out there. We don't want to fall through."

Ahead of Jerry, the implacable man with the brass buttons was nearly to
the steel door masking the blast chamber where the components of fuel
were mingled and ignited. Jerry, giddly aware of every hazardous step
over the squares of star-speckled blackness, kept one hand on Carol's
arm, the other on her chessboard.

"Don't spill any of the men!" she cautioned, as the diminutive plastic
figures danced and rattled on the board. "I don't intend to search the
whole cosmos for a pawn."

"Here you go, sir," said the politely insistent astrogator, opening the
steel door. Before Jerry yawned an oval of intense white flame, the
radiating heat crisping against his skin and hair.

"The fission rate," Jerry mumbled, consulting his wristwatch. "I've got
to time it, or I won't be able to calculate the amount of fuel still in
the bulkheads."

"Count it by steps, sir," suggested the astrogator.

"One," said Jerry, stepping out toward that blinding coruscation of
heat. "Two," he said, feeling carefully for the next girder.

Then the toe of his boot slipped from the metal, and he realized,
with a horrible lancing of adrenalin through his abdomen, that he was
falling out the opening between the girders. The only salvation would
be a shove with his still-braced rear foot, but that would carry him
directly into the inferno of burning fuel. An eternity of falling
through icy vacuum against an instant of intolerable searing pain....

"The fire--" gasped Jerry, toppling in inexorable slow motion toward
starry darkness, a cloud of twirling chess pieces orbiting about his
head. "I've got to make it into the fire...."

He tensed the muscles of the laggard leg for the spring that would
carry him to destruction, and then he saw that the chess pieces were
shimmering gray, and the oval frame of the doorway to the flaming fuel
was shimmering gray, and even what had seemed hot white burning was
cold gray waiting mist, and with a yell of remembrance, Jerry clamped
shut his eyes and let himself plunge downward into nothingness....


III

"Are you all right, Norcriss?" Jerry blinked slowly, then focused on
the face of Dr. Alan Burgess. He found himself lying on a narrow,
white-sheeted cart, in the corridor outside the room where all the
trouble had begun. "Mawson," he said groggily. "Is he--?"

Burgess nodded wearily. "Still in there, in full control of his one-man
universe. What happened, Norcriss? You came tumbling out that door like
a wild man, clawing the air and yelling. Then you went into shock.
You've been unconscious for two hours."

"I--I thought I was falling," Jerry admitted. "The last thing I
remember is stepping through the open space between a spaceship's
supporting girders."

"What open space?" said Burgess, frowning curiously.

Jerry shook his head. "There isn't any such thing. But something
happens to logic in that room. It's like having a dream, Doctor. Things
that would startle you in everyday life seem correct. Even familiar.
But there's a kind of pattern to events. At first, I'm in my universe,
and mostly in control. Then little fragments of my pseudo-reality start
slipping, changing into other things. The changes seem perfectly normal
to me. Then, all at once, the guy with the brass buttons turns up--and
I've managed in the nick of time, twice, to realize that I was about to
be sent or led between the disrupting plates of your atomic duplicator."

"The man with the brass buttons," Burgess said slowly. "Do you think
it's Mawson?"

"Either him or a robot he's made to keep his machine fed." When Burgess
scowled, Jerry shrugged and appended, "It is his machine, for all
practical purposes. He's the boss of that hungry electronic monster,
Doctor, however the hospital feels about it."

"This Carol. Is she a real woman, or a figment of your imagination,
wishful thinking?"

"She's real enough," Jerry sighed. "She's the personal secretary of the
entire Space zoology program. I take her out sometimes. There's nothing
special between us."

"But you wish there were," said Burgess.

Jerry stared at him. "What makes you think that?"

Burgess tilted his head toward the room where Mawson still maintained
control. "Your visions in there. You must think a lot of her. You can
kid yourself consciously; but nearly all you underwent in there came
straight from your subconscious. And a subconscious just doesn't know
how to lie."

Jerry changed the subject, "What's our next move? How soon can I go
back after Mawson?"

"You can't. Mawson's knowledge of this Carol can easily be turned to
your disadvantage. He can use her to lead you to dissolution in there.
No, it's much too risky. You're lucky you got out when you did."

"But what about Mawson, then?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Burgess tried to look confident. He failed. "We can ring up your
headquarters and ask for another man. Or, if worse comes to worse, we
can partition off this part of the hospital, and just sit it out until
Mawson runs out of atomic building blocks."

"Which may take years," Jerry reminded him.

Burgess turned his palms upward. "What else can we do?"

"Send me again," said Jerry. "I know the score pretty well, now. I know
what to watch out for. I'm sure that with one more try I can get Mawson
out of there."

"Sorry," Burgess said, shaking his head. "As a medical man, I cannot
permit it. You've had a bad shock. We'll try someone else, if your
outfit will send someone, and see what happens. If he fails, or if they
won't supply us with any more men, then--well, you can try again in a
few weeks, if you're still game. But not now."

"Doctor, in a few weeks, Mawson will be so well in control of that
universe that he may find a way to block the entrance. Have you thought
of that?"

"His universe is not a real one--" Burgess began.

"But that duplicator is real enough. It can make anything he decides he
needs. And at any time he may get the bright idea of simply mounting
his machine right at the entrance, so anyone stepping into that gray
field will be powdered into atoms, instantly."

"That's true enough," admitted Burgess. "But my diagnosis still
stands. For now, you are off this assignment. When I feel you're
ready--assuming nothing else has succeeded meantime--I'll contact you
at the base."

"How do you know I won't be off on some other planet by then?" asked
Jerry bitterly.

"I don't," said Burgess. "I hope you are not, but there isn't anything
further I can do about it. I'm sorry."

"And what do I do in the meantime?"

Burgess grinned. "Call up this Carol and go out on the town."

Jerry shook his head at the last part. "No thanks. I prefer Carol to
know nothing about it."

Burgess shrugged and gave it up. "All right, Norcriss. Rest here till
you feel stronger, then you're free to go." Then he was striding off
down the corridor.

After a bit, Jerry sat up cautiously, let the slight giddiness subside,
then swung his legs off the side of the cart and got down.

Behind him, the door to Mawson's universe stood open on its wall of
grayness. Jerry stared thoughtfully at it, then saw that the two
internes who were guarding the opposite ends of this section of the
hospital corridor were hesitantly half-starting toward him. Jerry knew
he could be through that doorway and into the grayness before they got
within ten feet of him....


IV

Then his shoulders slumped, and he turned and walked toward the
elevators. Burgess was right. He felt worn out, and uninclined to make
grandstand plays. Besides, he thought, thumbing the elevator button,
it would be nice to see the _real_ Carol again, after her nebulous
pseudo-self. He wanted very much to put his arms around a girl who
wouldn't suddenly turn into something horrible in his embrace.

The steel doors slid open before him, and the elevator boy leaned out
to check the corridor for other passengers. "Down," he said. Jerry
nodded and started into the elevator.

Then he hesitated, and looked back toward the room where Mawson reigned
supreme, then back at the elevator boy. "Say," he said, uncertainly,
"that's a strange outfit for an elevator attendant in a hospital. I'd
have expected an orderly in an all-white getup."

The boy glanced down at his uniform, the bright blue pants, shined
black shoes, and scarlet jacket bright with twin rows of brass buttons.
"I suppose it is," he said. "But I don't usually run this elevator. I'm
from the hotel next door. I'm just doing this while the regular guy
takes his coffee break."

Jerry hesitated, then stepped toward the waiting elevator with its
pale gray walls. And stopped again. His hand went to his forehead,
bewilderedly. "There's something--" he said.

Then Carol was beside him, slipping her arm through his. "Come on,
Jerry," she said urgently. "We'll be late for our date."

Jerry looked at her, then at the hotel corridor behind her, then again
at the waiting elevator.

"I have the oddest feeling something's wrong," he said. "I--I don't
remember coming over here for you."

"You didn't," she said promptly. "I came for you, Jerry. This is your
hotel, remember? Doctor Burgess said you'd had a bad shock, but I
didn't know how bad till now."

"Shock?" said Jerry. "What shock? What was bothering me?"

Carol smiled tightly. "Nothing. Nothing at all. Come on, Jerry,
darling." Again she drew him toward the elevator.

"If I could only remember," he said, uneasily, on the brink of that
open cube of bright grayness. Then his eyes focused upon the brass
buttons fronting the boy's jacket, and at his own shadow as it passed
across those glowing hemispheres. As the shadow crossed a button, the
color would die, and the button would be dull crystal, and then glow
bright and brassy again when the shadow had passed.

"Photoelectric cells!" said Jerry. "Light-sensitive cells. Those aren't
buttons, they're eyes! Multiple robot eyes!" He staggered away from the
boy. Carol stopped him.

The elevator boy, suddenly half again Jerry's height, was towering
over him, long steel arms extending like hooked telescopes toward him.
"Get in, Jerry, get _in_!" cried Carol, struggling to push him forward
toward those invincible metal clamps.

In a fury of fear, Jerry fought her, grappled with her, twisted to
avoid those extending robot hands that would drag him to destruction.
And suddenly Carol was screaming his name, and her eyes were pools
of terror and betrayal, and the leaping metal fingers had buried
themselves in the soft flesh of her shoulders and dragged her back into
grayness.

Incredible energies came alive about her, and then there was only a
shimmer of dusty crystalline winds, and she was gone.

Jerry found himself standing before the still-warm plates of the atomic
duplicator, in the room where Mawson had had his short-lived universe.
Beside the machine, a squat cubic box dangled limp steel arms, its rows
of photo-electric cells losing their golden glow.

And then, as Burgess came hurrying in through the door, he toppled over
in a dead faint.

       *       *       *       *       *

"So there is no such person as Carol?" said Burgess, standing at
the foot of the hospital bed. "She was only the figment of your
imagination?"

"Yes," said Jerry dully. "And all along, it was Mawson I was really
with. He was clever, all right. She was certainly the last occupant of
that crazy place I was likely to attack. If he had not tried attacking
me himself--I might be atom dust by now. A little longer, and she--he,
I mean--might have _talked_ me into that elevator."

"Well," said Burgess, "I'm sorry this thing ended with Mawson's
dissolution, but that can't be helped. You did your job well,
Lieutenant."

"Thanks," said Jerry, expressionlessly.

"To come so near death so many times--" Burgess shuddered. "You have
a remarkable constitution, not to have cracked under such a strain.
Lieutenant, you're a lucky man."

And Jerry, his mind still filled with a vision of golden hair, soft
brown eyes and warm, eager lips, could only echo wearily, "Very lucky."


END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Creature Inside, by Jack Sharkey

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CREATURE INSIDE ***

***** This file should be named 53089.txt or 53089.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/3/0/8/53089/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
