The Project Gutenberg EBook of Dreamer's World, by Bryce Walton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Dreamer's World

Author: Bryce Walton

Release Date: January 11, 2019 [EBook #58670]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DREAMER'S WORLD ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            Dreamer's World

                            By Bryce Walton

_They wanted a world without war. The answer was simple: Stay in bed._

[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Worlds of If Science
Fiction, May 1952. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


A warning hum started somewhere down in the audoviso.

Greg stared. Perspiration crawled down his face. This was it. This was
the end of the nightmare. This had to be Pat Nichols.

After seventy-two hours in which Greg had had to do without anesthesia!
Seventy-two hours of reality! Seventy-two hours of _consciousness_!
Consciousness. Reality.

Greg didn't know how he'd managed to remain sane.

It seemed incredible that a man who had advanced to Stage Five in
the Dream Continuity Scale, and who had been in anesthesia most of
the time, could suffer seventy-two hours of boring, drab, dreary and
revolting reality. And still be sane.

Pat Nichols was the answer. Her body faded into slim and luscious focus
on the three-dim screen. Her brooding eyes and wide mouth that curled
so reprovingly.

[Illustration: _In his mind was the certainty: This is no dream._]

She had gone psycho. Had fled from the Cowl into the dreadful Outside,
seventy-two hours ago. Gone to join that fanatical group of Venusian
Colonists, those outlaw schizoids who planned to start over on Venus.

"Pat!" Greg's hand reached as though she weren't just a three-dim
image. "Listen, Pat! Thank the Codes, you haven't blasted yet. I've
been crazy, waiting for this call. Pat, I can't even go into integrated
anesthesia without you around. My dreams don't seem to focus right."

"That's too bad, Greg," she said.

He moistened his lips slowly. He slid his hand toward the warning
button beneath the table. Her eyes didn't notice, never left his face.
Accusative, sad eyes.

He felt sick. He pushed the button. Now! Now Drakeson up on the
apartment roof would trace the point of her call. He'd chart her
location with the rhodium tracker beams. Then the two of them would
go and pick Pat up and prevent that insane, suicidal, one-way trip to
Venus.

She might consider it a very unfair thing, but then she was psycho.
She'd be glad of it, after she was brought back, brain-probed, and
re-conditioned. The thought made Greg even more ill. Brain-probing and
re-conditioning involved months of a kind of mental agony that no one
could adequately describe. The words were enough to give anesthetic
nightmares to any Citizen. But, it was for the good of the Cowls, and
of the psychos.

Her voice was sad too, like her eyes. "I was hoping you would join me,
Greg. Anyway, I called to tell you that in about five hours, we're
blasting. This is goodby."

He said something. Anything. Keep her talking, listening. Give Drakeson
a chance to employ the rhodium tracker, and spot her location.

A kind of panic got loose in Greg's brain. "Pat, don't you have any
insight at all? Can't you see that this is advanced psychosis, that--"

She interrupted. "I've tried to explain to you before, Greg. But you've
always preferred anesthesia. You loathe reality. But I'm part of
reality."

Yes. He had dreams. The anesthetic cubicles, Stage Five where a man was
master of thalamic introjection, dream imagery. A stage where any part
of reality was supposed to have faded into utter inconsequence. But Pat
Nichols had always been a part of his conditioned personality pattern.
By taking her out of it, fate had struck him with an unbalance in
psyche that disturbed the sole objective of life--to dream.

"But that's a suicide trip, Pat, and you'll never have a chance to be
cured of your schizophrenia, even if you do get to Venus--"

Her interruption had weariness in it.

"Goodby, Greg. I'm sorry for you. That silly status quo, and futile
dreaming. It will never let you realize what a fine man you are. You'll
decay and die in some futile image. So goodby, Greg. And good dreaming."

She was gone from the screen. Maybe from earth, unless he got out there
and stopped her before that suicide ship rocketed out from its hidden
subterranean blast tube.

       *       *       *       *       *

Greg Hurried. He didn't realize he could function so rapidly in the
world of physical reality. In seconds he had zipped thin resilient
aerosilk about his body, and was running across the wide plastic mesh
roof toward the heliocruiser in which Drakeson was waiting.

Greg felt the physical power flow as he ran. It sickened him. The
conditioners kept the body in good shape, but only to allow the
cortical-thalamic imagery faculties to function better. Actual physical
business like this was revolting to any Cowl citizen. Any sort of
physical and materialistic activity, divorced from anesthesia, might be
a sign of encroaching psychosis.

That was the fear. That fear of psychosis that might lead to violence.
To change. The Cowls over the Cities protected them from any physical
interference with an absolutely stabile, unchanging and static culture.
But the Cowls hadn't been able to protect the Citizenry from insanity.
During the past year, psychosis had been striking increasingly, without
warning, indiscriminately.

Greg dropped down beside the thin ascetic figure at the controls. He
grabbed Drakeson's arm.

"Did you pick it up, Drake?"

"Uh-huh," Drakeson drawled. His mouth was cynical, his gray eyes
somber. "Traced it down to a ten meter radius, but it's underground.
About five miles out of Old Washington, just inside the big
radioactivated forest east of the Ruins. About half an hour's flight as
the crow might fly. If there was a crow left."

"Then let's go. Lift this gadget out of here!"

A spot of nausea bounced into Greg's stomach at Drakeson's reference
to what the big Chain blow-up had done to almost all high cellular
life forms, including crows. Only insects and a few shielded humans
had withstood the radiation. Most higher complex cellular organisms
had paid for their complexity. But thanks to the establishment of the
Cowled Cities and the Codes of non-change, non-violence, they wouldn't
have to pay again. No chance for social change now that might lead to
another such disaster.

If they could only trace the cause for this psychosis epidemic--

Greg hadn't thought about it at all until Pat had started talking
peculiarly, then when she had broken up completely and left the Cowl,
then it had hit home, hard.

The heliocruiser lifted slowly under Drakeson's awkward guidance. Only
the Controllers, the Control Council Guards, could work the gadgetry
of the City with practiced ease. Everybody else, naturally, was
conditioned to various anesthesia states, and had no reason to deal
with materialistic things.

The cruiser lifted until it was flying directly beneath the opaque
stuff of the Cowl, lost in the dazzling rainbows of sunlight shattering
through.

Drakeson said. "We'll keep up here. Maybe the Controllers won't see us."

"What?" A peculiar coolness slid along Greg's spine.

"Maybe they won't see us," repeated Drakeson, and then he smiled wryly.
"Listen, Greg. You're way ahead of me in the Dream Continuity. You're a
lot further away from reality than I am. More impractical. So listen to
a word or two before we try to break through the Cowl.

"We've never been Outside, don't forget that. It's dangerous. You
haven't considered any of the angles. For example, I picked up a couple
of shielding suits which you hadn't thought of. And two small wrist
Geigers. If I hadn't thought of them, then we'd probably have been
contaminated with hard radiation out there, and would have been thrown
into the septic pools for about six months."

Greg shivered. That would have been very bad.

"It's deadly out there; poisonous, Greg. Only the insane have wanted
to go Outside for the last few years, and only the Controllers have
been out, and then only to try to track down the hiding places of the
Colonists. You hadn't considered that, but I did. So I had to steal a
couple of heat-blasters, from the Museum...."

"You what?" Greg stared at the two deadly coiled weapons Drakeson
dragged from beneath the seat. "Do the Controllers know?"

"They've probably found out by now, or will very soon," Drakeson looked
grim. "They'll be after us with sky-cars and para-guns. And they're
sure to slap a psycho label on us. They would anyway, probably, for
just going Outside. But having destructive forbidden weapons on us,
they're sure to, and we couldn't go Outside without weapons, Greg."

That was right, Greg knew. Paralysis guns wouldn't have been enough out
there. Drakeson said softly:

"Is she worth it, Greg? We may have to be brain-probed. Is she worth
that kind of pain?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Greg's stomach seemed to tie up in knots. Brain-probing, psychometry.
Greg whispered hoarsely. "She's worth it, Drake. And besides, it's
ridiculous to think that we'll be suspected. I'm only interested in
preventing Pat from making that suicide trip. The Controllers have the
same interest."

"But that's their job. You and I aren't supposed to be concerned with
reality. They've gotten very sensitive this last year. They can't
take any chances. At the least sign of disintegration, they have to
apprehend and send you to psychometry."

Greg said. "You trying to get out of your bargain, Drake? If you don't
want that carton of Stage Five dream capsules, then--"

"Oh no, I'll take a chance to get that carton. I never thought I'd get
a chance to experience such premature dreams. It's worth the gamble, we
might get away without being probed."

Greg's head ached. Reality always gave him a headache. He wasn't used
to it. A man who had reached Stage Five had been an anesthesiac too
long to find reality comfortable.

"I know the Codes," Greg whispered. "Legally, there's no reason to
be apprehended just for leaving the Cowl. And as for the blasters,
well--we can drop them off, hide them, if the Controllers get after us."

The cruiser moved down the sloping arc of the Cowl toward the dark
patch that Greg recognized as a merging chamber. The plastic spires
of the City reached up around them as though reaching for the sun.
Only a few human figures could be seen far below, on roofs, and in the
streets. A few low stage humans not in anesthesia.

Greg crawled into the shielding suit. He took over the unfamiliar
controls while Drakeson got his own shielding suit on. They weren't
heavy, but were sluggish material that could throw off ordinary
radiation.

Behind him Greg heard Drakeson's harsh yell. "Sky-cars! Ten of them!
Shooting up out of the Control Tower and coming right toward us! Merge,
and merge fast, Greg, if you still want to go Outside."

Inside the thick sheeting of the suit, Greg's skin was soaked with
perspiration. His face was strained as he moved the cruiser into
the first lock chamber. The cruiser had to move through a series of
locks to the Outside. A precaution to keep bacteria, radiation, other
inimical elements from coming in while an exit from the Cowl was being
made.

One by one the locks opened and closed as grav-hooks pulled the cruiser
through. It was a precariously balanced culture, this one inside the
Cowls, Greg thought. Like living inside a gigantic sealed test-tube.
Any slightly alien elements introduced into that test-tube could make
it a place of sealed death in a short time. A rigidly controlled,
non-changing environment. That was fine, except that some humans within
it had a habit of changing, and for the worse. Retrogression, psychosis.

Psychometry was trying frantically to find the cause. It seemed obvious
that the Venusian Colonists might be causing psychotics to appear in
order to swell their ranks of volunteers to go to Venus to start a "new
dynamic, progressive order." Madness. Suicide.

Progressive evolutionary philosophies meant change, and change might
lead anywhere. But eventually it could only lead to another horrible
_Chain_. One Chain had been enough.

The earth had been thoroughly wrecked. The few survivors had set
up the anti-reality standards, the Cowls and the Codes--and the
Controllers. They established the Dream Continuity that led to the
various anesthetic stages.

But people went insane. They disagreed. They fled the Cowls. Venusian
Colonial Enterprises resulted. It was organized insanity. A neatly
planned psychosis, with grandiose delusions of justification. They
would save humanity! Madness. Schizophrenia.

Venusian Colonization had been organized three years before. At least
four known spaceships had been constructed, stocked, and blasted. They
changed their subterranean hideouts after each blast. It had just never
occurred to Greg that Pat could go psycho and join them.

It was even more ridiculous for the Controllers to suspect _him_ of
being psycho.

He felt a little better as the cruiser broke out beyond the Cowl and
into the blazing natural sun of noon. It blinded Greg. Frightened him a
little.

He'd never seen the sun before, except dimmed by the Cowl.

He sent the cruiser climbing rapidly above the weird grotesque terrain.
Drakeson jumped into the seat beside him. His face was white.

"Open the converter feed valves wide, Greg! Clear open! The Control
cars aren't stopping at the merger. They're coming on through. They're
right behind us."

Greg looked back. Ten sky-cars, and within neuro-gun range. He jerked
the converter wide open. Acceleration slammed him back hard. He knew
now what fear was. In dreams you never suffered it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The audio in the control panel cracked out.

"Dalson! Drakeson! Turn around! Re-enter the Cowl. Return immediately.
This is a Control Council order. Do so or we fire with full charge
neuro-blasts."

Paralysis guns. And full blast. Greg swallowed. They meant business.
And without even a formal enquiry!

Drakeson said in a whisper. "What are we going to do?"

Greg didn't know. How could they think he was psycho?

Drakeson licked his lips. "I don't want to go under the brain-probers,
Greg. Nobody does. I don't want to be re-conditioned. I want to stay
like I am. I'm not psycho. And they'll brain-probe us sure if we don't
turn around and go back. And even if we do--"

The audio's cold impersonal voice said:

"This is the last order. The neuro-guns are ready to fire."

Greg's mind ran in mad circles. He tried to think. He felt Drakeson
move, and then he saw Drakeson's hand with that infernal injection
solution jiggling around in a big hypodermic syringe.

"I've just given myself another shot, Greg. You'd better have another
right now. If we land down there we'll need all the adrenolex we can
get."

Greg hardly felt the injection as he tried to think, clarify his
situation. I'm not psycho, he thought desperately. I'm doing something
a little bit different, but it isn't psychosis.

But good integrated citizens would not fight against the orders from
Control. All right. He would submit to brain-probing. But he'd get
Pat out of that trap she was in first. He might be able to talk her
out of it if he could get to her personally, be with her a while. The
Controllers certainly couldn't. They'd drive her away into space as
soon as she saw them.

The solution. A legality. He knew the Codes didn't he?

He yelled back at the pursuing sky-cars via the audio:

"Don't fire those neuro-guns. This is Greg Dalson speaking. There's
a law against any aggressive destructive action on the part of any
Citizen."

The audio replied. "The neuro-guns aren't destructive. Temporary
paralysis."

Greg said. "This cruiser is at a high altitude and traveling fast. If
you paralyze us now, the cruiser will crash. By using the neuro-guns on
us, you will be destructive, homicidal."

A dead silence greeted this statement. Greg went on. "I'm a Stage Five
citizen. Legally, there's no restriction against going outside the
Cowl. I'll report your action and attitudes to the Council if you fire
those neuro-guns."

Drakeson choked something unintelligible. His face was deathly pale.
"Clever," he whispered. "But that clinches it. When we do go back, it's
psychometry for us, Greg."

Finally the audio answered. The voice was not so cold. It had a tinge
of emotionalism. It said. "A technicality, but it does prevent us from
firing the neuro-guns. However, we feel it our duty to remain with you
until you do return to the Cowl. Because of the recent epidemic of
psychosis, we find this authorized by the Control Council...."

Greg savagely flipped off the audio. Drakeson said. "If they stay on
our trail, we'll lead them right to Pat. They'll scare her away before
you get a chance to talk with her, and try to prevent her from going on
the ship."

"I know," Greg said. "I know. We've got to figure something--"

He looked down at the fantastic semi-organic flora below. "How far to
go yet, Drake?"

"About three minutes."

"All right. We'll set the cruiser down here, and walk to where Pat is."

Drakeson choked. "That's suicide," he said. "We won't have a chance."

       *       *       *       *       *

Greg didn't have time to be surprised at his own actions. He pulled
Drakeson's hands away from the controls. Drakeson was trying to stop
him from bringing the cruiser down.

Drakeson gasped. "Even with the heat-blasters, we'll never get a
hundred meters away from where we land. I figured on landing directly
over the place--"

"So will the Controllers," Greg said. He hurled Drakeson back, heard
him sprawl on the mesh flooring where he lay, half sobbing.

Greg angled the ship down abruptly. "As soon as we land, I'm running
for it," he called back. "The Controllers will be down there swarming
all over us, and I don't want to lead them to where Pat is."

Drakeson crawled over to the bunk and sat on it. "All right," he said.
"I'm with you. It's too late to get out of it now. For a carton of
premature dreams, I've gotten myself stuck with a psycho tag. I'm
stuck with it anyway, now. Might as well go on, and stay out of the
brain-probers as long as possible."

Greg felt a tingling crawl up his wrists as they dropped down above
the gigantic, semi-organic forest. Mutated cells in the process of
change had played havoc with the pre-Chain life forms. According to
what little he had gotten from info-tapes, there was no longer any
distinction or at least very little, between organic and inorganic
life, outside the Cowls.

Psycho. He'd still argue with Drakeson about that, but he didn't have
time. He wasn't psycho. As soon as he persuaded Pat to abandon the
flight, they'd give themselves up, return to the Cowl, and things would
return to normal, to anesthesia, Stage Five, then Six, then Seven, on
to the final eternal dream.

That's the way it was going to be.

And if they had to suffer the hells of brain-probing and the awful
ego-loss of re-conditioning, then they would do that too. It was
for the good of the Cowls, the preservation of the Codes. A noble
sacrifice. Must be no change. No menace to stability. Any suggestion of
change made one suspect.

Greg's eyes misted as he brought the cruiser to a half-crash landing.
Even as he tried to bring his blurred vision into focus, he was running
to the exit. He had the sliding panel open. He was up to his knees in
writhing tendrils. He was running through a crimson twilight.

Behind him, he heard Drakeson tearing through the tendrils, and
clutching vines. Overhead he could hear the drone of the sky-car's
atomurbinic motors. Whether they would land and continue the search on
foot through the deadly forest, Greg couldn't know.

He didn't know anything about the Controllers' methods. "How far,
Drake," he yelled through the inter-person audio. Drakeson came running
up beside Greg. Severed strings of torn, still living life-stuff
writhed from his shoulders and legs.

"I'd say about half a mile straight ahead. That's a long way through
this nightmare."

Greg screamed. A broad mushroom-like growth had opened a mouth. A
gigantic, sickeningly gray mouth full of deadly, flesh-eating acid.

A flower-bright vine with great tensile strength raked Drakeson in
toward that gaping maw.

Drakeson's arms were held tight against his sides. He was
straining--helpless. Through the glassine mask of his helmet, Greg saw
Drakeson's face turning red with constriction.

His voice came to Greg in a burst of fear. "The gun, Greg! The
heat-blaster--quick--"

Greg leaned forward, staring in rigid fascination. Fleshy stocks swayed
toward him. Other mouths opened, petal mouths. Gigantic floral traps,
and cannibal blooms.

"Greg! Greg!" Drakeson was framed now by that great cannibal maw.

Greg had the heat-blaster up. He had it leveled. But he couldn't
depress the firing stud.

"Drake! I can't! I can't!"

How could any integrated man be deliberately destructive? How could any
sane person--kill?

"I can't--Drake--" The awful conflict seemed to rip through his
body. He felt the sweat, hot and profuse, rolling down his face. He
concentrated on that gun, on his finger, on the firing stud.

The cannibal blossom was closing. Sticky juices dripped over Drakeson.
He was screaming. Greg's finger lifted. He could not fire.

The Codes said no destruction. No killing. The Codes had been
established after the great Chain disaster. Violence begets violence,
the Codes said. And once begun, it was accumulative, like the snowball
rolling down hill.

Greg sagged. His knees buckled. He sprawled out in the slippery muck.
Tendrils swished softly and hungrily around him. He heard a shout. He
tried to twist his head. Figures blurred before his eyes, and he heard
the deadly _chehowwwwww_ of a terrific blast.

The last thing he remembered before the dark wrapped him up softly and
warmly, was the cannibal plant exploding in a million fragments of
stringy tissue, and Drakeson falling free.

_I didn't fire_, he was thinking. _Someone else saved Drakeson. But I
think I might have done it. My finger--it was moving--bending--or was
it? No. I couldn't have been destructive. Couldn't have killed._

       *       *       *       *       *

Consciousness came back to Greg. Painfully. It came back slowly and it
took a long time. He lifted his eyelids. He raised himself to a sitting
position. He stared down a gloomy, phosphorescent corridor. It was
obviously subterranean. It was damp, chill. Cold luciferin light glowed
from lichen on walls and low ragged ceiling.

It was long and it finally curved, he decided. But he could look back
into a long slow curve of corridor and ahead into the same. Here and
there, the mouths of branch corridors came in.

He looked at his hand. It still clutched the butt of the heat-blaster.

He felt strange. The surroundings were very real, yet they seemed
somehow not real. The shock of trying to fire that blaster when the
sanity in him shrieked "No!" had been too much for him. The shock had
blanked him out.

He breathed a deep sigh of temporary relief and triumph. He hadn't
killed. He thought of Drakeson. Somebody had saved him. Someone had
killed. Not the Controllers. They could employ only the neuro-guns to
paralyze. So he decided that Colonists had probably saved Drakeson.

Terror gripped Greg then. He remembered Drakeson yelling at him, the
distended eyes, the straining face. And how he himself had almost given
in, had almost killed.

_Had almost gone psycho._

But he hadn't. That was the important thing. He was still a sane,
integrated part of the Cowls and the Codes. And after a test like
that, he figured that nothing could break him. Let them send him to
psychometry. Let them clamp on the brain-probers and leave them on for
months. They'd not find any psycho tendencies in Greg Dalson.

Greg tried to reason. But he had no place, no foundation, for a
beginning. He didn't know where he was, or why he had been left here.
He knew that someone, the Colonists probably, had saved Drakeson from
that plant thing. Some mental pressure had blacked him out, he thought,
and then what? He didn't know.

Which way? It didn't seem to matter. He started walking.

He was bone-weary. His head throbbed. His eyes burned. And he was
afraid. He had gotten himself into a completely un-Codified situation.
He was lost, helpless, outside the protection of the Cowls, the Codes,
and anesthesia.

He was surrounded by reality. Reality in all its essential horror.
Conflict. Physical danger. Uncertainties. Materialistic barriers. All
the old shibboleths that the Cowls and the Codes and the anesthetic
dreams had protected him from.

And all because of Pat Nichols.

But he'd stood a big test. And he'd won. He hadn't killed. He wasn't
destructive. He--

The cry touched his ears and died. It was too violent and filled with
pain and terror to make any definite impression the first time. He
crouched. His eyes distended. The scream came again, and this time it
chopped through him. His nerves seemed to shrivel and curl beneath the
repeated onslaughts of the screams.

Then he was running. He didn't know why, except that he had to run. He
ran with fearful, gasping desperation. But he didn't know why.

       *       *       *       *       *

He ran past the mouth opening into the main corridor. Then came back
and ran into the darker, strangely-lighted artery. He ran harder. And
yet he wasn't running. Not all of him. As he ran, he was conscious of
some undefinable, but terrific conflict.

Beneath the suit, his skin burned with sweat. He felt the rigid pattern
of tensed neck and jaw muscles.

_I don't feel at all familiar. Something's very wrong. Everything's
wrong. I'm displaced, like something that has slipped into an alien
dimension._

He stopped, quickly. His heart seemed to swell, burst with terror.
Terror and something else. The something else came, and with it came
horror of itself. The emotion, and then horror of the emotion. He stood
shivering, his teeth clacking like an ancient abacus.

"Pat!" He screamed her name. The cry pounded back into his ears inside
the helmet.

This wasn't Drakeson. This was Pat. Pat was going to die now. Not
Drakeson.

The walls were--_alive_. They were not like the walls of the corridors.
This was a circular chamber, and the walls were sagging and undulating
like part of a giant's flesh. He heard heavy sluggish sounds.

Masses of the gray viscous stuff sagged, changed form, remolded itself
into monstrous shapes.

Pat! Only her face and part of her upper body were visible now. The
shielding of her suit had been cracked wide open by pressure as the
semi-organic thing, whatever it was, had closed around her.

The walls rushed in as Greg stumbled drunkenly. The ceiling sagged
lower. Long knobs fell, like globules of paste, then lengthened into
shapeless tendrils that snapped out at Greg.

He fell back.

Pat's scream penetrated again. No beauty remained in her face now. Her
eyes were sick. Her lips were loose and trembling.

"Greg--help me--help me--see what it does--the others--"

He saw the others then. Maybe he hadn't noticed before, because his
mind didn't want him to see.

Husks. Pallid wrinkled husks, sucked dry and shriveled. Several figures
not recognizable anymore, hardly recognizable as human. Just vaguely
human, broken, sucked dry.

His mind seemed covered by a grotesque shadow. His flesh crawled and
his throat turned dry, and perspiration made a stream down his throat.
He felt his eyes looking down at his right hand.

It held the heat-blaster. The skin felt tight as though it would split
as he gripped the heavy butt of the coiled weapon.

He concentrated on the finger that was frozen on the firing stud. If he
could destroy, then he was insane. His experience with Drakeson, that
had been no test at all compared with this. This was Pat. Pat, and she
was dying--dying unspeakably.

This was the great test of his sanity. He concentrated on the finger.
He must keep it frozen. He must back out of here. Get away, get back to
the Cowl, back to anesthesia and sleep.

The finger raised slowly from the stud. His feet lifted as his body
moved fitfully back, back, back--

"Greg--help me, Greg--"

Her eyes stopped him. They tumbled into terrible clarity. She whispered
starkly.

"Greg--help me--kill it, Greg. For me--Kill it."

He felt his lips part in a great and terrible cry of torture. His
shoulders began to twitch slightly. His arms and fingers took up the
jerky rhythm. Horror and a violent crimson flood of unfamiliar emotions
mushroomed like a volcano of madness. Something began crumbling away.

He lurched forward. He felt the heat-blaster heaving, throwing out its
deadly load. The gun had weight and power in his hand as he crouched
lower and moved in.

The power load swathed in long slicing arcs. Steam and sickening stench
fell around him. He moved in. He stumbled forward kicking out to right
and left at the quivering slices of stuff that were falling around him.

Destruction. Kill. Death. This was all three, and in a giant, almost
inconceivable quantity.

Her face through the steaming cloud. Her throat moving as she
swallowed. Brightness, the brightness of disbelief and impossibility
coming into her eyes.

He kept moving in until the monstrous mutated gray thing was thoroughly
dead. Until every separate tendril and patch was blasted to smoke. Then
he lifted her broken body in his arms.

Tears fell on the opaqueness of his helmet. "I'm sorry, Pat," he
choked. "I'm sorry it didn't happen sooner. I'm sorry I waited too
long--but it isn't easy--to let yourself go insane."

Something was wrong. Pat! Pat! She seemed to be fading away from
him, drifting away, melting into tattered veils of cloud. Her face
became only two bright glad eyes, then they also melted together into
a radiant pool. He toppled into the pool. He sank down, a wonderful
lifelessness spreading through him.

He closed his eyes. Something was beginning to be very funny. In the
thickening dark, he laughed a little. And in that laugh was a crazy,
climbing note of--triumph.

       *       *       *       *       *

He opened his eyes. He was laughing, in a kind of soft hysteria. He was
on a couch. Not a dream couch, but just a plain hard bed. He sat up
stiffly. Pain tingled down his legs. He saw Pat Nichols. And another. A
man. He remembered him vaguely, one of the first who had escaped from
the Cowl. His name--yes--he remembered now. Merrol.

Pat Nichols, alive, and smiling. Very beautiful too in a brief aerosilk
bra and shorts and sandals. Her hair was a dark lovely cloud flowing
down over bare shoulders.

"Hello, Greg," she said softly. "Welcome to--the Colonists."

"What?" He swung his legs around. "I don't understand. Not entirely."

Merrol, a gaunt elderly man, nodded from behind a desk. Merrol's hair
was gray and sparse. Strange, seeing a man who showed age. Within the
Cowls, one never grew physically old.

Pat said, "This is Ralph Merrol, Personnel Director of Venusian
Colonization Enterprises."

Greg's numbness was filtering away beneath Pat's warm glad eyes. He
raised his hand. The heat-blaster was still gripped in his fingers. It
evidently hadn't been fired.

"It was all illusion," he said. "The scene in the cavern. It never
happened?"

Merrol's care-lined face nodded. "It happened, but in your mind, Greg.
We rescued you and Drakeson from the cannibal plant. We brought you
here. You had lost consciousness. We put you under the hypnosene rays,
and put you through an experience that was quite real to you. We proved
something to ourselves, and to you. Greg--you're sane now."

Greg tried to understand. The thing didn't make sense yet, but the
glimmerings of the truth were beginning to solidify in his aching brain.

"Sane? But I killed. I wanted to kill. I wanted to destroy, and I did.
That's hardly the actions of a--sane man."

Merrol smiled thinly. "From our point of view it is, Greg. We consider
ourselves sane. We consider the Cowled Cities, and the Codes insane.
It's relative I supposed, but I think we can convince you, if we
haven't already."

Greg looked at Pat. She smiled. He smiled back. "Justified or not,"
he whispered. "I'm here. Sane or insane, I'm one of the Colonists
now I guess. Unless I want to return to the Cowls, be probed and
re-conditioned."

Pat whispered. "Do you, Greg?"

He shook his head. "Not now. I'm tired. I don't want to now. Maybe I
never will. All I want now, is rest."

Merrol leaned across the desk. "Before you rest, you'd better get a
few things straight, Greg. We want you to be convinced that you're
doing the right thing. We feel that the big Chain blow-up shocked
the whole human race into a mass psychosis, comparable to individual
cases of hysteria, schizophrenia, escape from reality. That's why
the non-change, non-aggressiveness Codes were established. Also, the
anesthesia, the Dream Continuity Scale--nothing but hysteria on a mass
and planned basis."

Merrol got up. He walked around and sat down beside Greg.

"Carried out to its inevitable end, this could only lead to mass
racial suicide. That's obvious. It was a static dead end. A few people
recovered from the psychosis. They escaped, and formed the Colonists.
But their own welfare wasn't the most important thing.

"They concerned themselves then with the freeing of the Citizens of
the Cowls from their psychosis. The world is untenable on a large
scale now, due to radioactive poisoning. It will remain untenable for
some time. Meanwhile we decided to Colonize Venus. We've established
Colonies there. Thriving communities, but the important thing is this,
Greg--it's given new impetus and enthusiasm to those who become sane
and escape the Cowls. It presents a big challenge and solidifies the
cure.

"It's bigger than Control has any idea that it is. It will take a long
time yet, but we'll win. You have noticed the increase in so-called
insanity in the Cowls. It really means just the opposite. Our numbers
are increasing by leaps and bounds."

Greg said, "The Controllers think you're using some psychological or
physical pressure to create these--cures."

Merrol smiled. "We've got a recruiting system. Drakeson, for example,
is a spy. We have spies all over the Cowls."

Greg stared. "Drakeson?"

A door opened. The lean cynical man entered, nodded, and stood beside
Pat. His eyes shone more brightly as he looked at Greg.

"That's right," Drakeson said. "Remember the two injections. I said
they were adrenolex. They weren't. Our spies inside the Cowls are
equipped with a supply of a certain aggression factor. It used to be
called Kappa, or K, for killer. This factor is handed down through
the generations in the general cell protoplasm. It forces aggressive
tendencies. It makes a man capable of physical aggressive action, and
able to kill, if he has to. High motivation is required though, in most
cases. With you, my probable death wasn't enough. It took the vision of
Pat here in the clutches of a monster to make the Kappa factor work on
you, Greg."

Greg rubbed his eyes. Pat came over and he took her hand, held it
tightly. A warmth came out of her and into him, into his mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Drakeson went on. "We isolated the Kappa factor, made it into solution.
We all have it, even the anesthetic citizens of the Cowls, but the mass
shock psychosis won't let it work. However, a strong overload of Kappa
injection will sometimes break the psychosis, force the person back
into an aggressive personality, capable of destruction. Each individual
carries an armament of between 200 and 800 particles of the Kappa
factor after we give an injection. It took 1600 particles to break your
suicidal hysteria."

Pat squeezed his hand. Greg looked up. He grinned with a kind of glad
embarrassment.

"I don't know yet whether to thank you or not. Frankly though, I do
feel better."

He thought of the Cowls. Test-tubes, glass cages, and dreams that led
finally to the final anesthesia, death. He shuddered, and tried to push
the memory out of his mind. It seemed unhealthy now. Unclean and--yes,
it did seem insane.

He raised his eyes to the ceiling. He saw the self-inverting three
dimensional mechanism that had given him that starkly real adventure
in which he had been able to kill, for Pat. A dream sequence, partly
hypnotic, partly created by cathode image activating the multi-phase
AC. A high harmonic of multi-phase AC field hanging over him, and a
focusing radiator. Dream. Nightmare.

He looked at Pat. "I think I'll take reality now," he said softly. He
felt the pull on his arm, and he got up. She led him through a door and
into a soft twilight. He held her tightly against him.

She whispered. "The ship's waiting for us, Greg. The next ship. You're
already on the passenger list. You see, I knew you'd come with us. I
was hoping so desperately, I couldn't think any differently."

He kissed her. He held her more tightly as though--as though--

He felt her warm muscles tense against him. Her eyes widened.

"Greg! What is it?"

He shook his head. "I--I got to wondering if this too, might not be
just a dream. I've been in anesthesia too long maybe. How can I know
what's real and what isn't real?"

He felt her warm moist fingers on the back of his neck. He felt her
lift on her toes, pull his face down. She kissed him. Her voice was
husky, and her breath was warm on his lips.

"Do you know now, Greg? Is this a dream?"

He shook his head. His voice was hoarse.

"No--no--this isn't a dream."

She laughed softly. They moved away, down the corridor toward the ship.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Dreamer's World, by Bryce Walton

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DREAMER'S WORLD ***

***** This file should be named 58670.txt or 58670.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/8/6/7/58670/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
