The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Elroom, by Jerry Sohl

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Elroom

Author: Jerry Sohl

Release Date: March 29, 2019 [EBook #59149]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ELROOM ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                              The Elroom

                             BY JERRY SOHL

                _Timmy was getting too much 3-dimension
                television, and he was mistaking it for
              Mother Nature. So his parents took him out
                 to see the natural wonders, which he
               unhappily mistook for 3-D television...._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Worlds of If Science Fiction, March 1955.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


She had never seen violinists work so hard. They were running their
bows back and forth so fast their hands were blurred. The musicians'
faces were studies in concentration and the concertmaster--he wasn't
two feet from her--had worked himself into such a frenzy veins were
standing out on his red face.

Mrs. Briggs almost laughed, the way the conductor was sweeping his
baton to within inches of her head. Several times she had an impulse to
reach up and catch it.

So this was Virilio! Disjointed, cacophonic, sometimes sweet but more
often deafening. She had never caught him before. But it was just
as advertised, all right. Exciting. And moving. She didn't know if
there was supposed to be a love theme in Virilio's new _Plenitude on a
Thursday Afternoon_, but it definitely stirred her.

Just then the door opened and Timmy came walking through the musicians,
eating an apple. Once he stopped to stare at the tympani and a second
fiddler's bow kept running through his head. It was rather ghostly,
Mrs. Briggs thought.

"Timmy!" she yelled above the music. "I didn't see you go. Where have
you been?" As if she didn't know.

"Had to get a glass of water. The music made me thirsty," he said
loudly, taking his seat beside her. "This is a lousy program, Mom.
What's next?"

"_Drama in History_," she said absently, her eyes on a flutist's
mustache, wondering how he managed to play.

Timmy chomped on his apple, but in the face of his gustatory enjoyment
she couldn't find the heart to tell him to be quiet.

At intermission, she left the Elroom to let Timmy take in the
commercial and returned in time for the beginning of _Drama in History_.

There was a salt spray in the air and a cool wind whipped around them
as the lights went out completely. The roar of waves grew loud and the
deck creaked beneath their feet.

The ship moved through the dim light. Sailors stood like statues about
the deck.

"We're even with the inshore ships, sir!" a voice called hoarsely.

"We've got the French between us, then." Though he was a small man,
there was a ring of authority in the voice of the man on the bridge.

"There's the _Orient_, sir!"

"One of ours has gone aground!"

"She'll mark the shoal for the rest of the fleet," the little man
replied calmly. "Ready, Mr. Creston!"

"What's he think he's doing?" the captain's boy whispered.

"Quiet, lad," a peg-legged sailor said softly. "Admiral Nelson will see
us through. You'll have your share of action afore mornin', mate!"

The darkness was split by faraway flashes of light. Instantly, there
was returning cannon fire that caused the ship to shudder and groan.
The Battle of Aboukir Bay had begun....

The red flashers above the door winked their message.

"Damn!" Mrs. Briggs said, switching off.

"Ma!"

"There's someone at the door, Timmy. If it's a salesman--!"

Mrs. Briggs checked the dials on the electrocooker as she went to the
door. A small but efficient-looking woman in the standard white and
blue of school uniforms had alighted from her g-car and stood at the
door.

The woman said she was Bernice Pomeroy from the office of the director
of Timmy's public school and Mrs. Briggs, scarcely glancing at her
offered identification card, pushed for mezzanine. The woman said
nothing; she merely waited until the floor came down hydraulically to
mez level. Then Mrs. Briggs ran the magnetic curtains around, and when
they were private she saw that the woman was sitting on one of the soft
lounge cushions, straight-backed, adjusting her glasses on the small
bridge of her nose. She drew a sheaf of papers from her portfolio.

"Mrs. Briggs," Miss Pomeroy said, looking up with officious grey eyes.
Then she saw Timmy. "Timmy, I suppose."

"Yes." Mrs. Briggs wished she'd get on with it. It was hard enough
leaving Admiral Nelson at the mouth of the Nile, without having her
settling down as if for all day.

"Maybe it would be best," Miss Pomeroy coughed a little, "if Timmy--"

"If Timmy what?"

"It's about him, you see."

"I'll send him to the Elroom."

"No," Miss Pomeroy said at once. Then she added: "Perhaps it would be
best if he stayed after all." She riffled her papers. "Timmy's latest
Auden-Gronet test shows his personality has dropped at least five
points from positive during the first half of the school year."

Mrs. Briggs looked at her nine-year-old son. He was down to the core of
his apple now, a nice looking boy, she thought, with bright blue eyes,
hair that insisted on drooping too far down on his forehead--she'd have
to start training it in earnest soon--and a fair supply of freckles. He
carried himself well. Had a pleasant speaking voice, she thought, and a
good vocabulary. She had noticed no--slipping?

"Timmy's not too far behind factually, Mrs. Briggs," Miss Pomeroy said,
referring to her records. "In fact, we'll admit he's ahead in stability
and adjustment. But he's getting more negative in aggressiveness and
personality development. He just doesn't seem to _care_. That factor
may account for his stability--he doesn't have any reason to be
unstable, you see? And he adjusts easily because he doesn't care enough
not to. There _is_ a reason, of course."

Mrs. Briggs was annoyed. The schools had gone too far. "And what, may I
ask, _is_ the reason?"

"Too much time in the Elroom, Mrs. Briggs."

Mrs. Briggs managed a good-natured laugh. "Miss Pomeroy, you have Timmy
all wrong. He doesn't spend any more time in the Elroom than other
children do."

"Children are all different," Miss Pomeroy countered.

"But not Timmy."

"Parents are often poor judges of their own children, Mrs. Briggs."

"Are you trying to tell me I don't know my own child?"

"Mrs. Briggs, I am not _trying_ to tell you anything," Miss Pomeroy's
cheeks were red. "I am telling you your child is spending too much
time watching these programs. Sublimating so much, in fact, that he's
beginning to find it difficult telling the difference between life
itself and the Elroom."

"Sublimating?"

"Escape. You didn't know? Yes." The teacher smiled tolerantly. "First
sublimation room for elevating one's self--sublime the verb. Then SubL
for short. Then just L and L-room to Elroom. You didn't know?"

"That, my dear," Mrs. Briggs said heatedly, "is just so much hogwash."

"Tell me, Mrs. Briggs, just what does your husband think of the Elroom?"

"He doesn't have much time to spend in it."

"You mean he'd rather do something else?"

"He's interested in typically man things--cars, mostly." Because
Timmy had gone over to the curtains and was starting to walk through,
and because she wanted to show Miss Pomeroy she was capable of some
discipline, she said, "And where are _you_ going, young man?"

"Probably back to the Elroom," Miss Pomeroy put in. Mrs. Briggs gave
her an acid look.

Timmy swallowed the last bite of apple. "To get a drink. I'm thirsty."

When he had gone, Miss Pomeroy leaned forward. "You must keep him out
of the Elroom, Mrs. Briggs. We'll send you a list of programs. He can
have sublimation only one hour a day."

"Ridiculous!" Mrs. Briggs snapped.

Miss Pomeroy adjusted her glasses and looked at her severely. "Are you
saying you will not comply?"

"I said it's ridiculous, didn't you hear? Why, you won't find a better
child than Timmy--"

"Obviously your only child."

"And what has that to do with it?"

"It is not my job to explain," Miss Pomeroy said icily. "Only to
inform. I'm afraid I'll have to report that you will not heed the
directive."

"The Elroom is instructive. Why, we were learning something about
history just now. We were watching Nelson sink the French fleet when
you came."

"It's not the program. It's the identification with it. Let's say Timmy
has too much imagination--but then I have already told you what I came
to tell. I'll be going now, Mrs. Briggs."

       *       *       *       *       *

From the way George sent the gyrocar into a long swoop that ended
inside the garage, Laura Briggs knew her husband was angry and she
braced herself for battle. But she wasn't quite prepared for such an
immediate outburst, the moment he got in the door.

"Stoops!" he cried, robbed of slamming the door because of the
automatic permaglass cushion. Timmy scurried away, frightened at this
aspect of his father. "The psychocenter we've got to go to yet!"

The electrocooker had dinged a minute ago, and Mrs. Briggs was ready to
take everything out and put it on the table, but she could only look at
him in amazement. "You're not making sense!"

"Ha!" George's heavy eyebrows hovered high in his forehead, then
plunged down over his eyes. His big face was crimson, his blue eyes
steely. "Neither are they, and they called just before I left the
office. Wouldn't tell me why. Have you done anything?"

"Well--" Mrs. Briggs started tentatively and he gave her a sharp look.
"It's about the Elroom."

"The Elroom!"

She told him about the visit of Miss Pomeroy. "She must have reported
it."

"Then we'll get rid of the damned thing!" His eyes brightened. "I told
you we should have gotten a new car instead."

"But we've got a car, George."

"Not a good one." He leaned against the cooker, his face blissful.
"Imagine us--_us_--driving a new _Caddie_ gyro--room for eight, you
know--supersonic drive--sleek, too--we could get a red one--you'd like
red, wouldn't you?--a thousand horsepower with twin turbos for level
flight--and those off-center firing tubes with folding back overhead
vertical flight pins--Gad!"

"Our present car--"

"Junk!"

"But it runs, and we don't need a car like that for just in-town
driving."

"But what about our vacation? Think of it, Laura: We could make it to
Alaska, Tibet, Africa--we could go around the world in our three weeks."

"We could do the same with the Elroom, George. And there are a lot more
things besides travel." Mrs. Briggs's lower lip was trembling. "You're
siding with those nasty school people. You think they're right about
Timmy."

"Where is he?"

Timmy stuck his head up from behind the lounge. His big eyes were wide.

"Look at him, George. Ever seen a more normal boy? How could they think
a boy like that could get so involved in a program he'd think he was
living it."

"Yeah, but if those school people--"

Her eye caught the clock and she drew in her breath quickly. "Say!
We've got to hurry if we're going to see _Cameron Capers_."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Vincent Potter was a large man with a shining expanse of flesh
between two islands of black, bristling hair above heavy brows that
met over his nose and almost concealed the bright, intelligent eyes
that glittered beneath them.

"So. You cannot understand. Yes." He nodded his head, made a tent with
his hands, and rocked. "But this is what we are for. To understand. For
you." He smiled. "If understanding easily came, then we would be not
needed. No? You see?" He laughed a little, jerked upright. The movement
nearly made the three of them jump.

"Doctor," George said. "There are millions of kids in Elrooms all over
the country."

"You tell me something new?" The doctor frowned. "Millions of people
there are. So? Must they be alike every one? They are not. Yes?" The
doctor leaned toward Timmy who was playing with a desk calendar. "Who
is your mother?" Timmy pointed to Mrs. Briggs. "Your father?" Timmy
pointed to George. "See? He knows."

"Of course," Mrs. Briggs said.

"Exactly," the doctor agreed. Then he was upright, waving his
forefinger before them, looking from beneath dark brows. "For how long,
Mrs. Briggs? For how long, I am asking? And now, I am telling how long.
Who knows? Who can tell how many times you will let him see these
things?"

"What day is today?" Timmy asked.

"He is asking what day it is," the doctor laughed.

"Well, why don't you answer him?" Mrs. Briggs suggested.

"The twelfth of June," the doctor said. "And why does Timmy ask such a
question?"

"You forgot to tear off yesterday." And Timmy tore the little sheet
off, proceeded to make a dart of it.

"Well, what you've been meaning to say," George said, "is that we're
going to have to cut down on Timmy's Elroom time."

"Aw, Dad!" Timmy protested.

"No. Cut it down we will not do." The doctor shook his head gravely.
"We will cut it out altogether."

"Cut it out?" George said hopefully. He leaned forward with interest.
"Maybe we should get rid of our outfit?"

"Mr. Briggs. You do not know, perhaps, sublimation can be dangerous.
Confusing reality, stimulating unreality, stunting thinking, bringing
on neuroses. Tolerance. He needs tolerance. Timmy cannot develop
tolerance with too much of a dose, as he has had. Do you see now? The
AG test--ah!--it is good. It shows us he is leaving reality. We can't
let him psychotic become."

"But he doesn't believe the programs!" Mrs. Briggs exclaimed.

"Not yet, Mrs. Briggs! Not yet. If he sublimes enough he will soon,
though. No?"

"I can't stand the thought of locking Timmy out of it," Mrs. Briggs
said sadly.

"I'm in favor of getting rid of it," George muttered. "There are other
things--cars--"

Dr. Potter took an official form from a drawer. "A change of
environment you need. Timmy needs. You leave tomorrow on a month's
vacation."

"But my vacation doesn't come up for six months," George said. "Or
doesn't that matter?" he added hopefully.

"You will leave tomorrow, as said. No? Your office will I inform of the
necessary departure. Sector administration will be knowing." He wrote
on a sheet of paper. "The colorful spots. That you will see. Timmy
will see things as they really are. Itineraries will send the route by
facsimile. Good. Not?"

"Why, I think it's wonderful!" George said.

"Timmy must see the sunrise. The sea, he must swim in. Things, he must
do. Remember. Yes?"

"Yes," George said. "No?" He turned to his wife. "There's an agency
where we can rent a car--and they have new _Caddies_--"

       *       *       *       *       *

The tapering white obelisk thrust upward from the earth like a giant
needle. The Briggses entered the base of it, went up the elevator, and
caught glimpses of stairway landings as the cage rose slowly. When they
stepped out on the platform near the top, they walked to the pair of
port openings on one side and looked out.

In the time it had taken them to get to the top of Washington Monument,
a light fog, borne on the slight evening breeze, had enveloped the tall
shaft at its midsection; they could see nothing of the ground below.
They were isolated from Earth, connected to it only by the elevator
well.

"Isn't this eerie?" Mrs. Briggs asked Timmy.

He looked around casually and yawned. "On an Elroom program," he said,
"you would be able to see all the way down. I don't think this is so
hot." He yawned again. "I'm thirsty."

"We'll be going down in a minute, Timmy."

"I've got the route figured better than Itineraries for the next stop,"
George said. "If we could leave in twenty minutes--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Aragonite crystals on the cavern's ceiling twinkled brightly in
reflection of glowing electric lights. The fragile beauty of the
boxwork formation took Mrs. Briggs's breath away.

"It's just like lace," she whispered to George, pointing to the frosty
tracery glistening in the honeycombed walls.

"Tom Bingham discovered this cave," the guide intoned before the
tourists seated in the giant chamber, his voice echoing from the walls.
"He heard a whistling sound and found it came from a small opening.
That's why they call this Wind Cave. The wind goes in and out."

"Why does it do that?" someone asked.

"Difference in atmospheric pressure," the guide said. "Another
interesting thing about this cave: It's always forty-seven degrees.
Doesn't make any difference whether it's summer or winter. Always the
same in here."

"I don't hear any wind," Timmy said to his mother and father. "Why
isn't the wind whistling?"

"When the barometer falls, the wind blows out," his father explained.
"When the barometer rises, the wind blows in."

"Why isn't the wind whistling now?" Timmy insisted.

"The barometer must be standing still, son."

"This isn't any good. On an Elroom program the wind would be whistling."

"Hush," Mrs. Briggs said.

"I'm thirsty," Timmy said.

"We'll be leaving in a few minutes."

"You'll get plenty of wind when I rev up the _Caddie_ on our next hop,"
George said.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Think of that," George said. "It's a whole mile down to the river."

Timmy leaned forward to take a deep look over the precipice at Yaki
point.

"Boy!" he said. "This is pretty good. Almost makes me dizzy."

Below, the Colorado River was bright quicksilver, threading its way
circuitously through the canyon. The striated walls rose majestically
from the floor to towering temples.

The boy turned from the rock to look at the tufts of clouds floating by
in the deep blue sky.

"I'm thirsty," he said.

Mrs. Briggs, still fascinated by the view, said, "Well, go get a drink,
then."

Timmy walked over the edge, screamed as he fell.

Mrs. Briggs could only stare, stunned.

George uttered a cry and ran to the cliffs rim.

Tourists nearby ran up, looked down with George.

A hundred feet below on the slope at a point where it dropped off to
nothing, a horrified Timmy was crouched clutching a small tree.

"Hold on!" George called encouragingly.

A few minutes later someone had found a long rope in a gyrocar trunk
and roped it about George's middle. They let him over the edge gently,
dropped him down the slope slowly.

"Hang on, Timmy!" George yelled, running a tongue over dry lips and
momentarily closing his eyes to the dizzying depths. "Don't let the
little rocks coming down worry you."

A while later, a dust-streaked Timmy was back on the ledge in his
mother's arms, sobbing.

George, his shirt wet with sweat, and struggling out of the rope,
panted: "Whatever came over you, Timmy?"

"It was so real I thought it was the Elroom. I was just going out to
the kitchen to get a drink of water."

"And I--I told him to go," Mrs. Briggs said, horrified. "It was that
real to me, too."

       *       *       *       *       *

                               FOR SALE

      ELROOM, complete. Like new. Reasonable. Or will trade for
      new Cadillac 8-passenger, twin-turbo gyro, red preferred.
      George Briggs, 7228 Rose Terrace. Phone CARberry 7-9087.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Elroom, by Jerry Sohl

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ELROOM ***

***** This file should be named 59149.txt or 59149.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/9/1/4/59149/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
