The Project Gutenberg EBook of Ecology on Rollins Island, by Varley Lang

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Ecology on Rollins Island

Author: Varley Lang

Release Date: April 25, 2019 [EBook #59363]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ECOLOGY ON ROLLINS ISLAND ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                       ECOLOGY ON ROLLINS ISLAND

                            BY VARLEY LANG

               _Man's every resource was being stripped
             to feed the millions on Earth ... but George
                was a throwback, and a poacher, and his
                 punishment had to fit the crime...._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Worlds of If Science Fiction, August 1955.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


There's a library in a small town near Charles Neck on Murdock Sound.
It's so run down and useless that a lot of old books still hang around
on the shelves, the big kind with stiff backs and all kinds of fancy
little stars or small, curly designs to show the end of one section
and the beginning of another. Very quaint. After the WFI took over the
Sound in our remote area, I didn't have much to do in the day time,
so I used to walk down the road to town and get a handful of these
stiff backs once in a while. From reading them I got the notion I'm
a one man resistance movement, which is pitiful and foolish, and, I
gather, always has been a seedy, run-down sort of thing, a backward
state of mind and feelings. That's me, alright: backward. I tried to
be forward, but it made me hard to live with; and since I live mostly
with myself, I had to quit. Still, I knew I couldn't get away with
backwardness, and that sooner or later the WFI would slap me down,
squash this bussing insect, and get on with its work again as usual.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sure enough, one bleak November morning, when I was half through a
couple of eggs and a cup of coffee, I heard the throb of a motor. I
walked down to the end of my wharf and looked skyward. I was pretty
sure they wouldn't come by land, because most of the secondary roads
were in bad shape; and they wouldn't travel by water, because that took
too much gas and time. In fact, the WFI never wasted anything. They
couldn't afford to. Everything went for food, its growth, collection,
and processing. The big freighters, some of them, had atomic piles,
but that power was impossibly clumsy and expensive for smaller boats.
So they came by air in the usual inspection helicopter. The pilot
dropped her in the cove right alongside the wharf and made fast. Three
men stepped onto the planks. They had the wheat sheaf insignia of the
WFI on their overcoat arms and caps, and they looked cold and bored.
A small sea sucked at the pilings and the helicopter rose and fell,
grating against the wharf. I looked at the pilot and said, "Better put
your chafing gear out if you intend staying a while." We all watched
while the pilot put a few kapoks at the tight spots. Then he looked at
a notebook and said, "You George Arthur Henry?"

I said, "Call me George."

This inspector was the usual type: tired from long hours, bored from
doing nothing on a weary round of food inspections. He hunched his
shoulders against the wind.

I said, "It's warmer inside."

They followed me into the kitchen of the house. All three of them
started to sit down, then stopped, and walked over to the table in
perfect step. They looked at the cold remains of my breakfast eggs. The
WFI inspector shoved his hat up and said, "Eggs." The others nodded,
wordless with wonder. Then the inspector said, "Chickens?"

"Where," I said, "do you think I got the eggs?"

The little man alongside the inspector came to life. In three dextrous
movements he had glasses on, a notebook in his hand, and stylus poised.
"What do you feed them?" he inquired eagerly.

"Seeds," I said, "insects, chopped up garter snakes, mussels, ground up
oyster shells. You boys have all the grain."

There was an excited light in the little man's eyes. He hurried out to
a broken down shed to examine the chickens.

That left two of them. The inspector continued to gaze at the remains
on the plate in a dreamy way. The other man straightened his big
shoulders, looked at me, and said, jerking his thumb toward the shed,
"Mr. Carter's an ecologist. He just came along for the trip. He's on
his way to the Government Experimental Farm over at Murdock. I'm a
government sociologist. I was sent here to have a talk with you. My
name is Ranson."

"Sure. Sit down. I guess I'm licked, but there's no use making a rumpus
about it."

I turned to the inspector whose eyes were still caught in the egg
plate. I said, "Ever taste them?"

"Once," he said, in a far away voice. I went to the cupboard and came
back with a paper bag full of eggs and put it in his hands. He held
them as if someone had just given him the wheat sheaf badge of merit.

"I won't be needing these after our little talk, I expect. Take them
home to the kiddies."

He smiled, looked at the sociologists, who grinned back and nodded. The
inspector walked very carefully out of the back door and down to the
wharf to stow his eggs in the helicopter.

Ranson shifted in his chair. He said, "That was very nice of you, Mr.
Henry."

"George," I said.

"Against the law, of course." There was a smile around his eyes. "Are
you against the law, George?"

"Yes. No use bluffing. You know the story. All the waters and
everything in them are WFI. All the land and everything on it. I don't
like packaged food. I like real food. I don't like my oysters, crabs,
clams, fish minced up and blended with chick weed, cereals, yeast,
algae, plankton, and flavored to taste a little like steak. And plenty
of others feel the same. I have a market."

"An illegal market."

"Yes," I said. "By God, if you had told my father, before I was born,
that the oysters he tonged could not be eaten as oysters, he'd have
laughed in your face. And if you had told him he wouldn't even be
allowed to tong them, he'd have cussed you good and proper!"

"People have to be fed. The only way we can do it is to combine the
total food resources of the world, process and package them, and do it
as efficiently as possible. That means absolute control of _all_ food
sources and their harvesting. You could work for WFI, George. It would
be important work."

"I know. It's so important nothing else gets done. Have you seen the
roads around here? Half the bridges are down across Charles Neck and
Walter Hook. You can't get gas. You can't get telephones, and if you
happen to have one, it doesn't work half the time. And the busses don't
run any more. And--"

Ranson held up his hand. "It's an emergency, George. You have to
realize that. It's been building up for a long time, long before your
father worked the oyster beds in Murdock Sound."

"There's another thing," I said. "Before you fellows closed the Sound,
I was independent. I had my own boat and I made my own way. Now you
put your WFI scoops in the Sound and the whole job is done in a month
or two. And who are the watermen? A couple of clerks to every scoop
who turn a valve every once in a while and draw their packaged food,
clothing, and entertainment once a week. Do you call that a job? Why,
those food clerks couldn't even lift a pair of thirty foot rakes, let
alone tong with them."

"We get more oysters, George, and in less time, and we do it
scientifically."

Ranson tapped his notebook with the stylus and he looked out of the
kitchen window. He was giving me time to cool off. He'd been kind and
patient when he didn't have to be either. With his job he had no time
to sit and reason with a one man resistance movement. He had no time
for anything but food, and organizing society to keep it grubbing
incessantly for food, and, at the same time, to keep society as orderly
and contented as possible. I was not orderly and I was not contented.
But I was just one man, not society. I cooled off.

I said, "Look, Ranson. It's like this. I know you're right. I've had a
look around, and I've thought about it some. The figures are with you:
too many men and not enough food. Only thing is, even from your point
of view, I'm not fit for WFI. I have to be on my own. There ought to be
somewhere, someplace for a man, instead of a food clerk--" I trailed
off unhappily.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'm afraid you have no alternative, George. You are a criminal in the
eyes of the WFI. Either you will work for WFI or you will be punished."
He paused.

"I won't work for them."

Carter, the ecologist, burst in at the door, slammed his gloves down
in the middle of the kitchen table. "Ranson, you never saw anything
like it. Fifty in the flock, two roosters, all in fine shape. Lice of
course, some bone malformation in the legs. But healthy."

He began to ask me dozens of questions, but Ranson interrupted.

"I need your help, Carter, and time's wasting. Among other
depredations, George Henry, here, has been robbing government oyster
beds, trapping government crabs, netting government fish, presumably
at night. I needn't add that he has a ready and lucrative market. In
effect, he refuses to cease his depredations, he refuses to join the
WFI, and he is generally uncooperative."

Carter said, "uncooperative," in an absent way. He dragged his mind
away from a flock of fifty fowl living in a most unusual ecology,
narrowed his eyes, and asked a shrewd question.

"How did he get there?"

"What?"

"To the beds."

Ranson said, "Where did you get the gas, George?"

"I didn't. Took the engine out, put in a well and center-board, shipped
a mast, and rigged her for sail. She's tucked away up in Marshwater
Creek."

They were astounded. Nobody had sailed pleasure craft for a generation:
no leisure and no money for such a waste of time; and sail craft were
too inefficient for food collecting.

"My God, George," Ranson said, "you're a living anachronism!"

Carter nodded. He adjusted his glasses, looked at me, and said quietly,
"He is also an able man."

"His abilities will be largely wasted in a Penal Food Processing
Plant," Ranson said grimly.

"Oh, I agree, I agree." Carter nodded his head emphatically. "The wrong
environment entirely. No scope. No initiative." He gave me a glance of
understanding that warmed me right through and also had the unfortunate
effect of taking some of the starch out of me. I had been prepared for
hostility and indifference. I stood up and walked to the sink for a
glass of water I didn't want.

"Now," Carter said, talking to Ranson, "you take the way he walks.
Notice how he swings his arms, with his hands a little forward, as if
ready to grip, and the tilt of his head, alert, watchful. You don't see
that often. Different attitude, different environment."

Ranson sighed. "Get down to business."

"Yes. There's always this terrible lack of manpower, machine power,
everything, all swallowed up in food. And besides, the men can't stand
those bird stations. Too lonely. Can't meet an emergency. Four of them
died on Rollins Island three winters ago when the power plant failed.
Just sat there and froze. Terrible thing. Had to install emergency
two-way radios; need the equipment elsewhere."

"They died of loneliness, if you ask me," Ranson said.

Carter nodded. "And no gas available for boat inspection. Helicopter
too wasteful for a single station. Put George out there with one or two
others. Could you sail out? Seaworthy? Big enough?"

I said yes.

"Good. Food processing all done by machines. Just feed birds in. Take
up to half the colony of young birds when bred, half the old ones when
coming to nest. Regular inspection of tern colonies by sail, your boat.
Helicopter lands June twenty, small freighter in July to load processed
birds in Rollins Harbor. Just the thing."

He took off his glasses to show that the problem had been solved.

"Look," Ranson said. "I don't have anything against George personally.
I want him to be useful and contented. If he can't be contented,
then at least I want him to be useful, instead of wasteful. Robbing
government food resources is a grave offense, but even that doesn't
justify putting him down in the middle of a pile of excrement where no
ordinary man can breathe for more than a few minutes without stifling."

"Healthy," Carter said. "Healthy. It does stink. That's one reason we
have such trouble keeping the stations manned."

"Boys," I said. "What is this pile of dung I'm supposed to sit on? And
what birds? And why?"

Carter explained. In the desperate search for food, the sea birds were
now being subjected to an annual harvest. From various nesting places
along all the ocean coasts in the world, birds were harvested, to
say nothing of their eggs, in large numbers. It was simply a matter
of catching and killing the birds, gathering their eggs, and feeding
the processing hoppers with same. These foods were later shipped to
Food Processing Plants to be added to other harvests and packaged for
consumption. In some cases, more specialized processing was necessary,
as with the fulmars on Rollins Island. The fulmars were much prized
because their alimentary system contained an especially stinking oil
rich in fat and vitamin A. In their case, no eggs were collected,
since they bred only once in a season, and the birds were separately
processed to retrieve the oil.

Literally millions of sea birds and their eggs were cropped yearly
from nesting sites on the east coast of North America alone. It was a
regular and assured source of food on an enormous scale the world over.
The thousands of tons of excrement were also gathered every five years
to be used in food processing and in agriculture. It was the policy of
the WFI to waste nothing and to use everything.

The cropping of the young birds took place in the spring and early
summer, depending on the species. The adult birds were trapped by
various devices when they returned to their nests. Over-cropping was
carefully avoided to insure a steady annual production.

"If it's the island or a Penal Food Plant, I'll take the island. I'm a
waterman, not a bird collector. At least I'll get a chance to use the
boat once in a while."

Both the WFI men looked relieved. Then Ranson put a question.

"Do you know of anyone else around here who might be fitted for such
work? I'm not asking you to inform. I know there's been a good deal of
discontent in this Sound region, which is one reason why I'm here. The
island may be a solution for other misfits as well."

I thought it over. "The Jackson boys aren't very happy. They were the
best men with drift nets this Sound has ever seen. Now they sit on
stools all day long and watch a row of bottles pass in front of lights.
Once in a while they lift a bottle out of the line and put it aside.
They get very drunk every night on some stuff they make out of berries
and dandelions from the marsh."

Ranson sighed. Carter again passed a warming look of complete
understanding, and nodded encouragement.

"Then there's Pete Younger. He was a trapper before WFI closed the
muskrat areas. He turns a valve several hundred times a day in the
Small Fish Processor. He oils his traps and talks to himself. He may be
too far gone. I think he is."

"Anyone else?"

"Others. But the WFI has a bight on them for good, I guess. They were
men, once."

"Are the Jackson men married?"

I smiled. "No. We're dying out."

Carter chuckled.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a twenty-five mile sail to Rollins Island. The Jackson boys and
I loaded the boat with clothing mostly. Food was stored on the island.
I took along four pairs of oyster rakes, I didn't have the heart to
leave them behind. And Bill and Joy took a huge ball of linen twine,
ropes, corks, rings, all the makings for a drift net.

Unexpectedly, Carter showed up at the last minute by helicopter to see
us off. He jumped up on the wharf smiling.

"About those chickens," he said, "they're condemned stock of course.
Better take them along. And keep an eye on them. Want to know how they
make out in a new environment."

Then he took me aside and handed me a small book.

"Lot of information in this. Written by a small animal ecologist. Read
it. Read it carefully. Think about it. Read it again, and think some
more. Got that?"

I said, "Sure. I'll read it." I had the notion he was trying to get
something over without actually coming out with it flat, so I listened
carefully.

He paused for a while, wiping his glasses and pursing his lips.

"That island's not right for fulmars and gannets. Wrong environment.
Never have multiplied as they should. Whole thing should be
concentrated north. Plenty of cliff sites north. None here. Won't do.
Terns, yes. Fulmars and gannets, no. Trouble is, WFI is tenacious.
Stupidly so. It works, they say. I tell them it works badly. It's going
to take a lot to move them: total failure of a colony or two.

"You're intelligent, George. Put two and two together. Wish you luck."

He shook my hand quickly and jumped into the helicopter. Bill and Joy
had to call me twice before I could come out of a trance of bewildered
speculation. In a daze I helped the boys load our last piece of
equipment: a huge barrel of salt they had pilfered from the local Food
Plant.

       *       *       *       *       *

The island is big, about five by fifteen miles, and it must have been
a fine piece of land. It still was, even though mucked everywhere with
white-to-greenish bird dung. There were steep hills on the mainland
side, marshes to seaward, and in the middle natural meadowland broken
by woods containing pine, and some beech and maple. We moored in a
small but fairly deep harbor at a wharf for loading foods. Our barracks
stood just off the wharf. In addition to all the necessities, there was
a two-way radio, marked "Use in emergency only", and a handbook with
information on approximate numbers of birds to be taken, locations
of nesting sites, and so on. Equipment, including snares and nets,
was stored in an equipment room. And there was a storeroom containing
packaged foods, no freezing or cooling necessary for preservation.

Behind the barracks stood a warehouse for storing processed birds, and
a shop with the processors themselves. Everything looked orderly and
efficient. A small plant supplied us with light and heat and power for
the machines.

We arrived in November. By December, the first sea birds began to
return to their nesting sites, a few at a time. Soon we were so busy
snagging them as they came to land that we had little time for anything
but work and sleep. Even so, Bill took the time to salt several dozens
of gannets and fulmars for future eating, and he was looking forward to
the eggs.

Spring and early summer soon rolled around, and we were collecting
young birds, the nestlings. So it went.

I can't say any of us liked the work. For one thing we all sickened
of the endless slaughter. For another, the stench and dirt were
overwhelming. The island should have been a fine place for living.
There were sheltered spots for houses, a small harbor, woodlots,
meadows for cattle and pigs, some bottom land for food crops, the sea
for fish--a fine location; but it was ruined by birds. It was a slimy,
stinking hell.

The birds flew everywhere in huge flocks, especially in the morning
when the gannets and fulmars came back from fishing at sea. Excrement
fell from the sky like a stinking sleet. We couldn't get away from the
smell or the smell away from us. It was in our clothing, hair, under
our fingernails. No watermen ever washed so often or so thoroughly as
we did, but the stink remained. We lost weight and appetite steadily,
for the packaged food tasted of excrement soon after it was opened, or
seemed to, which is just as bad.

However, by the end of June most of the birds had left, and we had our
helicopter inspection. The same man who was fascinated by the cold
remains of a couple of eggs in my kitchen was on this route, and we
cooked three or four of our chickens. His enormous appetite sharpened
ours, and we had a feast. He was almost tearfully grateful. By July,
the freighter had put in, loaded, and left. For the first time in many
months, we were unoccupied.

Bill and Joy immediately set about knitting a large drift net. They
were happily excited at the prospect of gilling large numbers of
government fish. As for me, I sat down to read a book on small animal
ecology.

I read that book through three times. I kept at it night and day, and
it was the hardest work I've ever done, because I wasn't reading just
to pass the time. There was a message in that book, I was sure of it, a
message from Carter, a man I liked and trusted.

By the time I began to get a glimmering of an idea as to what Carter's
message was, the boys had their net knitted and hung. I went back to
the book to find out what to do about this idea, and the boys sailed
out to drift the net. I waited for them in a sweat of impatience. They
came back at dawn the next day with a boat load of food fish. I met
them at the wharf.

"Bill," I said, "what are you going to do with that load of fish?"

Bill looked at the fish. He said with slow and tremendous satisfaction,
"I aim to eat them fish, George Henry."

"Bill," I said, "not even you can eat all those fish. I've got a
scheme. Save back some of the fish, sure. Let Joy smoke a few even. But
take the rest into Murdock tonight and sell them to Hornsby. He used to
buy my oysters. He'll buy your fish."

"What for?" Bill asked.

"Get some bootleg gin," I said.

"That makes sense. What else?"

"Rats," I said. "I want rats. Buy some traps or get Pete Younger to
make some. Not muskrats. Barn rats. As many as you can catch."

"Fish," Bill said. "Fish for rats. Boy, the birds has got you."

He gave in after a while, more to keep me good natured than for any
other reason, that and the gin. He came back with two dozen live,
healthy specimens, and watched with an open mouth as I let them loose.

       *       *       *       *       *

The months passed, and I was worried. To drive the problem from my
head, I took the boat out and surveyed the shallow waters off the
island. I found something. I found a bed of oysters in broken rock,
a bed not marked on WFI charts, because you could see it hadn't been
worked for a long time. Later, I located clam beds on the marshy side
of the island. The damn place was a paradise, or might be, once those
birds were cut down, but I couldn't eliminate them by sheer slaughter
because of the WFI.

There didn't seem to be many rats around. December came and all the
filthy, stinking work with it, and still no rats. Once in a while, eggs
would be missing from occupied nests, and that was all. Gulls could
have gotten those. We toiled through stinking February, foul March,
odiferous April, and evil-smelling May. Still no rats.

I sent Bill back to the mainland for more; and by September, rats were
everywhere. Bill looked at me from his bunk one night and said, "I hope
you're satisfied."

I was more than that. I was terrified. They absolutely swarmed. It
was impossible to walk from the barracks to the boat at mid-day
without having to kick rats off the path. They consumed most of the
non-metallic gear in the boat, including the sail. So far, they hadn't
gnawed a way into our barracks store room, or we'd have literally
starved to death.

"Boys," I said, "just sit tight. Wait till December. These rats are the
best friends you ever had. They're going to make this island livable.
No more stink and stench."

"What," said Bill, "are you going to do with the rats when the birds
are gone?"

Joy merely moaned.

"We'll kill them."

"If they don't get us first," Bill said.

It was an awesome and bloody slaughter. The fulmars and gannets, most
of the gulls, some of the terns, were either wiped out or harried
off the island in a single season. And the island became a heaving,
moving, revolting mass of rats, and nothing but rats. They attacked us
on sight, from sheer hunger. Not a blade of grass grew anywhere on the
island, and rats are not grass eaters as an ordinary thing. There was
one hopeful sign. They were beginning to eat each other.

Day after day we were caged in our barracks. The constant squealing and
scratching under the barracks was bad enough. What made us desperate
was the fact that they had gnawed a way into the store room and most of
the packaged food was gone. We still had some smoked fish hung on the
rafters, and a few salted fulmars in the barrel, but that was all. It
was then that we remembered the two-way radio, marked "Use in emergency
only". Bill said, after weighing all the evidence coolly and carefully,
that this here, in his opinion, was an emergency.

I got WFI mainland and finally persuaded them to put me in touch
with Carter, Bird Stations Ecologist. I told him we were having a
little trouble with the genus Rattus, and would he, for God's sake,
do something about it, quick. I can still near him laughing. It was a
while before he could speak at all.

"Keep them at bay, general. I'll be over early tomorrow morning."

I don't believe any men have ever been so happy to see Carter as we
were.

"They'll balance," he said. "Starvation will do its work. I've brought
along a couple of pairs of barn owls. They'll help a lot. I see you
read that ecology book. Good job. Station virtually wiped out. I'm
sending supplies over in a week's time. Anybody wants to know, you're
supposed to be helping extend and restore the tern and gull colonies.
Wouldn't be a bad idea to try a few other animal experiments. Milder,
though. Smaller scale. Send canvas for a sail too."

He was gone before we could answer. The small freighter put in July
fifteenth. She had no cargo of processed birds to take back, of course.
The captain detailed a few men to unload our supplies, and we helped
them eagerly. There were six calves and heifers, two cows and a bull,
five pigs, one boar and two sows, several dozen hens and a rooster.
Best of all, there was a big case containing seeds: corn, barley, oats,
seed potatoes, melons, beets, kale, dozens of others. A plow and two
draught horses, mare and stallion. Several pounds of rat poison. A hand
forge and several tons of coke. Iron. A hundred pounds of linen twine
for nets, as well as ropes of all sizes. Canvas. Tools of all kinds. A
big medical kit.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a year's time, we had prospered. No richer land, due to the bird
droppings, was ever farmed. And the sandier areas could be depended
upon for melons and other crops demanding a lighter, drier, and not
so rich soil. Not only that, but we were five, now, instead of three.
The Jackson boys had lured a couple of husky girls to the island in the
boat. The boys claimed the women fell in love with them. I think they
fell in love with the island.

This fast work on the part of the Jacksons seemed a little rash to me.
I was still not at all sure we'd be allowed to remain and enjoy the
work we had done. Several times, I was tempted to use the radio again,
but decided to wait. I'm glad now I did.

       *       *       *       *       *

In August, a little more than a year after his last visit, Carter set
his helicopter down at the wharf again.

After lunch in the barracks of baked fish, fresh milk, potatoes, salad,
and melons, he pushed back his chair and said, "I suppose you've been
wondering."

"We'd like to know," I said.

He nodded. "The mainland's going to pieces. So is the whole world. It
isn't just food. We can still produce that. Remember what you said
about the bad roads, bad telephones? You put your finger on it. So
much manpower, machinery, energy, material is used up in getting food
and processing it and distributing it, there isn't enough for other
things. A tenth of the world's population and a quarter of its total
power resources go into processing plankton alone. We are literally
eating ourselves to death. Utilities and services are breaking down
rapidly. No new dwellings of any kind have been built for ten years
or more. Oil is short, cement, iron, steel, coal, plastics, wiring,
radios, telephones, everything is in short supply and getting shorter.
Transport is staggering to a halt."

He paused, took off his glasses, and twirled them by one side piece.

"Many of us saw it coming. A few decided to do something. We thought
there should be undisturbed nuclei, a few able people with ample food
supplies. You are one such center. There are others at various bird
stations along the coast. You'll be joined shortly by a few more
people, young men and women, among them a trained nurse, a doctor, a
skilled carpenter, so on."

Bill cleared his throat.

"What you said, I guess it was all around me, only I never seen it, not
to put together. Just one thing. The manager at the Food Plant, he used
to stop and kid me about all the fish I'd stole from the government in
my time. He was abraggin' about how WFI had newer and better ways of
gettin' things done, always newer and better every year. How come they
couldn't keep caught up?"

"Bill, those new techniques that manager talked about were old stuff a
hundred, two hundred years ago. The applications are new, some of them,
but the basic ideas are old.

"The World Food Institute drew off all the scientific, inventive brains
of the world, and put them to chasing food. No time for basic research,
basic development; just time for tinkering and retinkering old ideas.
Been no new basic idea for a couple of centuries. Too much need for
immediate, practical results. The well is dry, and it won't be filled
again with a reservoir of new, big ideas, not in our time. Been living
off the past; and the present has caught up with us."

       *       *       *       *       *

Before Carter left the island to visit the other stations, I had a
chance to have a talk with him.

"Was that sociologist, Ranson, in on this?"

"No. We had to be careful. Still have to be. Just a few of us. That's
why the loss of the bird colonies here had to seem natural, or at least
a natural accident. And I had to keep clear of it. You can see that."

"Carter, what happens on the mainland when things break up?"

"Won't be pretty. Bad. Very bad."

"For example?"

"You read the ecology book. What happens when a species multiplies
beyond its ability to feed itself?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A dozen new Rollins Islanders showed up a few at a time in Carter's
helicopter. We've been working and waiting a long time now, waiting for
Carter to come back. For over a year now, our boat has made no crossing
to the mainland. Last night, over twenty-five miles of sea in clear
weather, we saw the sky lit by a great fire.

I haven't forgotten those rats. I dream about them, tearing one another
with bloody fangs.





End of Project Gutenberg's Ecology on Rollins Island, by Varley Lang

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ECOLOGY ON ROLLINS ISLAND ***

***** This file should be named 59363-8.txt or 59363-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/9/3/6/59363/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
