The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Birds and the Bees, by David E. Fisher

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Birds and the Bees

Author: David E. Fisher

Release Date: September 12, 2019 [EBook #60283]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIRDS AND THE BEES ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        The Birds and the Bees

                           BY DAVE E. FISHER

                  _Which goes to prove that, in some
                   instances, being heroic is easy!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Worlds of If Science Fiction, August 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I was wandering among the tall grass of the slopes, listening to the
soft whistling of the wind; allowing the grass to caress my toga and
thighs. It was a day soft and clear; a day accepted by the young,
cherished by we old. Across the gently undulating hills stood the
magnificent Melopolis, encradling the Oracle of Delni. I do not, of
course, believe in the gods per se; still there is a grandeur in the
very stones that transcends their human sculptors, and it is no wonder
to me that many cling tenaciously, and ignorantly, to the old religion.
Cling to the gods of old, who drew man upward from wherever he began.
In whose names Man killed and plundered, while struggling up. In whose
names Man finally left this earth, to seek his cousins among the stars.

But of course there were no cousins. There was nothing. And Man
returned, and settled down to live. Saddened, but resigned and content
to live in peace with his knowledge and his power. Gone now are all the
ancient evils, wars, emergencies.

"Sias! Sias--" And they were upon me.

That is, Xeon was upon me. But I knew that where Xeon is, Melia must
soon appear. And indeed it was but a moment before Melia slipped
through the high grass to stand at his side. Their youthful voices were
babbling in excitement.

Melia was a She, with the swelling breasts that were, so tradition
states, quite prevalent among members of the race long ago, and are
seldom seen today. Indeed, Melia was on this account made the butt of
many jokes and, I fear, would have had a lonely life of it had it not
been for the friendship of Xeon.

"Sias," they were saying, "the Maternite's gone."

I stared in amazement.

"Gone? It cannot be gone. It has always been--"

"Oh my gods!" Xeon shouted. "I tell you it's gone! Will you--"

Melia interrupted him quietly. "Xeon, will you lose all respect for
the Elder?" Then turned to me, and said calmly, "The watcher at the
Maternite Machine, it appears, has been drunk. The heat rose above the
warning, continued to rise, and then--poof. Everything has evaporated
in Maternite. All the Prelife is gone."

"All of it?" I asked.

"There is nothing left," Melia insisted. "Can more be made? And if not,
what will happen with no more children?"

"That is for the priests to say, not I," I replied. In moments of
emergency, it is wise to speak with caution. That is, I suppose so. I
have never before been in a real emergency.

       *       *       *       *       *

A man my age does not hurry in the heat of the midday sun--maddugs
nenglishmin go out in the midday sun, as the ancients say, although I
often wonder why--but Xeon and Melia ran all the way down to the city.
They are of an age to enter manhood, and have all the energy such young
men do.

As we entered the city, we were surrounded by confusion and
consternation. And can the simple people be blamed? They were aware
that they stood in the midst of an unprecedented happening; indeed, an
emergency. For a machine had failed!

Not in the memory of the eldest among us has a machine failed. They
were created so long ago, indeed, that the ignorant believe them
to have been constructed by the gods themselves. And never, so far
as I know, has one failed. Small wonder that the watcher had been
negligent. Indeed, the watcher is more a tradition than a necessity.
Besides, had he been sober, he would not have known what to do. For who
knows the mysterious workings of the machines?

       *       *       *       *       *

I hastened to the City Hall and found the Conclave assembled, waiting
for me to bring them to order. Xeon and Melia stopped as I mounted the
steps, but I smiled and motioned them in. They accompanied me past
the marble pillars into the cool recesses of the Hall, then seated
themselves on the floor as I took my place by the great table.

Well, you know how these things are. At such a time, many men feel
impelled to make speeches, and one must not be disrespectful. Prayers
and supplications were offered to the gods, priests were sent to
sacrifice, and finally, as the light of the sun was falling between the
pillars, the High Priest of the Maternite Machine was heard.

He rambled through the customary opening remarks and then, continually
smoothing his white beard--of which he is excessively proud--approached
the crux of the matter and the Conclave finally heard the facts it had
assembled to hear. By this time, unfortunately, many of the Conclave
had departed for home and supper. Yet perhaps it is for the best, for
those left were the most earnest and intelligent.

"I would not bore you," he said, "with details of which only the gods
are sure. Know, then, that once granted a few cells of Prelife, it is
an easy matter for the Maternite Machine to add more and more; thus
assuring us, as has always been, a continuous source of Prelife to be
born by the Generating Machine as children. The machines bear the exact
number of children each year to balance the number of us whom the gods
claim. Such it has always been from time immemorial."

A murmur of assent and approval of these virtuous words whispered
around the Hall.

"But now," he continued, however, with less assurance and indeed with
even a stutter here and there, "an unprecedented situation has arisen.
Indeed, I might call it an emergency. For the M-Maternite Machine has
actually failed."

Cries of "Treason" sprang up, and I fear it might have gone hard for
the priest had I not been able to insure order.

"That is not the worst," he cried, as if in defiance. "All the Prelife
has been dried up. It will not function. There is no more. And there
will be no more children!"

At this I feared the Conclave was about to riot. It is at such times
that I most revere the wisdom of the ancients, who decreed seventy
years the minimum age for a member of the Conclave. They shouted and
began to beat their fists, but for how long can a man of seventy years
roar like a youngster? They quieted, breathing heavily, and I asked,

"Is there no way, then, to produce more Prelife in order that the
machines may produce more children for us?

"As I have said," he replied, "give the machines but a bit of Prelife
and they will produce more. But take away that least bit, and they are
helpless."

Such heresy could have brought a sad end to the priest had not the
Conclave been so exhausted by the events of the day. We leaned back to
think.

Rocsates leaned forward and asked, "Must there not--must there not have
been a beginning to Prelife? For the Machine, it seems, cannot make it;
and yet it came from somewhere."

"Riddles are not called for," I answered severely.

"Are not riddles often the beginning of knowledge?" he asked, in that
irritating dumber-than-thou attitude of his. "Must there not, long ago,
have been a source of Prelife: a source now forgotten? And may it not
even now--should we discover it--be available to us? I am reminded of
the story of the animals of old--"

"I fear your mind is wandering, Rocsates," I was forced to interrupt.
"I know well the legend of the animals, but what does it have to
do--" The heads of the Conclave were turning to me, quizzically. I
hastened to explain the legend of the animals. "It is said that many
thousands of years ago, time without reckoning, there existed on the
earth creatures who were alive like us, and yet not like us. It is said
they had four legs or more, and no arms, were covered with hair, and
although not mute, they could not speak."

Rocsates' voice made itself heard. "It is true. Such creatures did
indeed exist. It is recorded most scientifically in the films."

"If it be so," I said, quieting the hub-bub that followed, "and I would
not doubt your word, Rocsates, for all know you are the wisest of
men--if it were so, then, what of it?"

"May it not be," Rocsates put in, "that these animals had no machines
to reproduce their kind? For surely the gods would not grant machines
to such creatures. And indeed, if they had Maternite Machines, why then
we would yet have these animals among us."

"And how, then, did these animals reproduce?" I asked.

"How, indeed? And is there not a legend--admitted only a legend--that
says there was a time before the machines, and before the Maternite
Machine, and that at such a time both the animals and Men reproduced
from within their own bodies?"

At this two members of the Conclave fell immediately into a faint, and
I would gladly have joined them. I hoped that the youngsters, Xeon
and Melia, had not heard, but as I turned they were listening most
attentively to Rocsates, who, amid cries of "Heresy" and "Treason",
went on:

"I should like to ask the Conclave for permission to search the ancient
records, in the hope of finding some such knowledge that would prove or
disprove my words."

"You wish to search the films--" I began.

"Not the films, Sias, but the books."

Gods, this Rocsates! The books, as well he knows, are so ancient,
and so delicate, that they are kept in an air-tight tomb; lest,
being handled, they be destroyed and all knowledge within them lost.
Therefore, they have not been read in the known history of our race.
And Rocsates has been anxious for an excuse--

"Sias," he went on, "if there exists such knowledge as I seek, is it
not indeed lost to the memory of Man? And if so, are not the books the
only place where it may be found?"

Rocsates, it is suspected, will never ask a question unless he knows
the answer beforehand. And so I acquiesced, and agreed, and granted
permission. And with much misgiving and foreboding of evil, the
Conclave adjourned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Several weeks elapsed before Rocsates requested that the Conclave meet.
I called the meeting at dawn and so it was yet early in the afternoon
when formalities were concluded and Rocsates granted leave to speak.

"Some of those among you are She's," he began. "And you know you are
different from the rest of us. To the advantage, your skin is fairer
and your features more often handsomer than ours. To the disadvantage,
your excretory system is not so mechanically dextrous as ours. And, you
may say, why should this not be so? There is, indeed, no reason why we
should all be identical. Perforce you have the advantage, perforce we
do. Yet there is one other distinction.

"Some among you She's have the swelling of the breasts. And does there
exist no reason for this? Was there not, perhaps in ancient times, a
cause for this? Do you not wonder, She's, whence you come and for what
reason?"

"Rocsates," I interrupted. "All this is fascinating, of course. But if
you could be quick--"

"Of course," he replied. "In the course of my reading I have read
many books, and while they are all vague on the subject, this I have
discovered:

"That there was indeed a time before the machines, in fact the books
were created in that time, for not one of them mentions the machines.
Then reproduction was carried on by individuals, without help of the
then nonexistent machines. The She's are not wanderers from another
land, but they have lived with us for all time; they are not another
race, but we are all types of one race. And the fact of reproduction is
somehow intimately related to the physical distinctions of the She's!"

These last sentences were shouted to be heard above the roar of the
crowd. Yet when Rocsates stopped, so also did the noise, so shocked and
amazed at his words were they. And I confess, myself also.

"In fact," Rocsates added, sitting down, "this process of reproduction
seems to have been so simple that there was once a problem of
over-population."

Order was lost among the Conclave as each man turned to speak to his
neighbor, and for some time I could not restore order. I realized that
something had to be done to save Rocsates before the outrage of the
assembled overwhelmed him.

"It seems," I shouted, "that there is a flaw in your logic." For if
such there was, I was hopeful of dismissing the entire affair with
no harm done. "For if people reproduced too often, why then this
reproduction must have been a pleasant thing to do; otherwise they
would not have done so to excess. And if it was a pleasant thing to do,
where is the necessity for the machines, and why were they created?"

Rocsates seemed perplexed by this problem, whereupon Xeon, who together
with Melia were at the Conclave without permission, shouted, "Perhaps
the process of reproduction was of _such_ a pleasure that the Conclave
ruled it to be a sin? And therefore the machines were necessary!"

At this impudence the Conclave dissolved in an uproar, and I was beyond
power to restrain them from placing Xeon under arrest. Privately,
however, I had to admit that his supposition was a possibility, and
thus I authorized Rocsates to continue his search.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now indeed I was sorely worried concerning Xeon, for he must languish
in the dungeon until the Conclave is satisfied to release him, and this
they cannot do until they meet again.

I needed a sufficient excuse to call a meeting of the Conclave,
whereupon I might argue for the lad. When I heard that Rocsates again
desired audience, I immediately proclaimed a meeting of the Conclave
to be held the next day at dawn, and so that night slept well.

The Conclave had come to order and formalities had been initiated when
Rocsates entered and took his place. He clutched under one shoulder
a thin, rectangular object, but that is not what impressed me. His
appearance--he looked as if he had not slept of late, nor eaten either.
His eyes were sunken, and his features had doubled in age. He was bent
and tired. But it was his eyes. There was a horror in them.

I was shocked, and could not help staring at him. And then the
formalities were over. I intended to speak for Xeon, but Rocsates was
on his feet and I gave way.

"I have indeed discovered the secret of reproduction," he began. "After
many searchings, I came upon this--" and he held forth the object he
had carried in. "It is a book. It is entitled, 'Living a Normal Sex
Life.' It seems to be some sort of a do-it-yourself pamphlet." He
dropped the book on the table and rubbed his hands over his eyes.

There was something in the man's behavior that commanded everyone's
attention. He went on, speaking low. "The word 'Sex' is not defined,
but it seems to mean...." His words trailed off. He was obviously
unsure of how to continue. "I had better start at the beginning, I
suppose," he said. "You see, once upon a time there were birds and
bees...."

       *       *       *       *       *

When he finished the Conclave sat in horrified silence. His words,
with all their horror, had the ring of truth and there were no cries of
'Heresy'. There was only stunned disbelief and the beginnings of nausea.

It is the mark of honor that a leader shall carry on when others fear
to move. I cleared my throat.

"Shall not these organs which you mention have atrophied by now? With
no use throughout all these generations, will they not have evolved
into nothingness?"

"I do not think so," Rocsates replied after a while. "What to us is
an eon, to evolution is but an instant. And then the swelling of the
breasts, I believe, proves that there is still reproductive activity in
some, at least, of the She's."

We sat shaking our heads, bowed under terrible reality.

"Then we must experiment," I said. "But whom could we ask to submit to
such horror?"

"I have already taken the liberty of asking for volunteers," Rocsates
replied. "The She, of course, must be one with the swelling of the
breasts. Melia has volunteered, on condition that Xeon be released from
dungeon. Are there any objections?"

There were none, of course. Who would refuse a boon to one who would
undergo such an ordeal for the City?

"And who will be the partner?" I asked.

"In all honor, could Xeon allow Melia to surpass him in courage? It
shall be he," Rocsates said. And with his word the two entered the Hall
and stood, noble and naked.

Rocsates gestured to the table, and Melia started to climb upon it,
but Xeon stepped forward.

"My lords," he said, "would not better results be obtained were we to
conduct the experiment in the fields before the Oracle of Delni, that
the gods may help us?"

His glance reached into my soul, and I was proud of Xeon. A true
friend, he thought even now of the comfort of Melia. The marble table
was indeed hard, and from Rocsates' description it seemed that Melia's
position would be as uncomfortable as it would be undignified. The soft
fields might be some slight help.

I voiced my assent, and the entire Conclave adjourned to the fields.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was nearly dark when we walked home, Rocsates and I, arm in arm. It
had been a horrible day. The inhuman indignity, the cries--

We tarried before my home, leaned on the stone, stared at the first
stars.

"They seemed finally to accomplish all the book described," I muttered.

"They may indeed have succeeded," Rocsates replied. "There is mentioned
a time lapse which is necessary. The child does not appear immediately."

"It doesn't matter," I said disconsolately. "Who could ask them to go
through such an ordeal again?"

And then I looked down to earth again, and saw them standing before me.
Melia cast her eyes down, and would not raise them. Xeon held his arm
about her shoulders, as if to protect her, but I know not from whom.

"Sias," he said. Then stopped, embarrassed.

I waited, and Rocsates was silent, and he continued.

"Sias, we come to tell.... We will...." He raised his eyes to mine and
said manfully, "We shall try again."

I am afraid that tears came to my eyes. Such sacrifice--

"We beg one favor," Xeon went on. "We are agreed that--Well, we should
like to be left alone, in private, to try."

"Of course," I replied. Anything they might want they could have. My
relief and gratitude must have showed, for Xeon took a deep breath and
spoke again.

"We do not deserve praise, Sias," he said. "The truth is, we ... we
sort of enjoy it."

I watched them turn and wander off together under the stars.

My heart has a warmth in it, and I no longer fear for the future of our
race when our young people can show such nobility and sacrifice.





End of Project Gutenberg's The Birds and the Bees, by David E. Fisher

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIRDS AND THE BEES ***

***** This file should be named 60283.txt or 60283.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/2/8/60283/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
