The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Bridge, by G.G. Revelle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Bridge

Author: G.G. Revelle

Release Date: September 15, 2019 [EBook #60303]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BRIDGE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                              THE BRIDGE

                           BY G. G. REVELLE

                      _His orders were final. And
                    how could these terrified souls
                     know their fate was his own?_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Worlds of If Science Fiction, August 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Two low flying interceptor jets screamed overhead, climbing
for much needed altitude as they headed out to sea. The Captain took
off his steel helmet and looked up at the thunderous roar just before
he leaped from the still moving jeep. When his feet touched the ground
he moved quickly, shouting orders at the olive-drab truck convoy he
had been leading. He pointed his finger at the side of the road where
he wanted the small stuff. The "duce and a half's" he directed to the
opposite side of the road. Then he put his helmet back on.

He watched as the troops quickly dismounted and assembled. He lighted a
cigarette while he waited for his three officers. Only then did he look
at the Bridge.

The massive steel structure spanning the river was six lanes wide,
cantilever style with curved upper and lower cords. The Bridge looked
trim and new. It was the Captain's responsibility to see that it stayed
that way.

He stuck the cigarette in his mouth and reached inside the rear of
the jeep and checked his radio set. It was set on K channel, 29.2. He
expected no messages, except in an emergency.

While he had the time he took a yellow sheet of paper out of his pocket
and read the words pasted on it for the fourth time. Somehow they never
changed; they always read the same. And each time he got a sinking
sensation in his stomach when he read them.

Captain Alfred Lowary put the yellow paper away quickly when the three
junior officers of the Battery reported. He returned their salutes in a
lazy sort of way. He took off his helmet again.

"The orders are the same as briefing," he said. "Lieutenant Kastner
will take the third platoon across the river to the West side. The
second platoon, Lieutenant Tudor, will move North of the entrance on
this side and take up position in reserve. Lieutenant Meyers will set
up defense on this side." He inhaled on the cigarette and looked at
Tudor. "Place your machine guns carefully. I want a cross-fire on that
slight bend on the road down there."

Tudor nodded.

The Captain pinpointed Meyers with his eyes. "You've got the
'hot-spot'.... Just remember.... No one gets on the Bridge!"

"But--" Meyers began.

"No buts. I said no one. Understand?"

Meyers' "Yes, sir," was barely audible.

"Any questions?" the Captain asked.

They shook their heads negative, except Meyers. He said, "Just one
thing, Captain."

"What's that, Lieutenant?" Lowary asked.

"Are we supposed to shoot our own people?"

Lowary's face grew hard. "If we have to, Lieutenant," he said. "If we
have to." The tone of his voice told them that he wanted to avoid any
discussion on the subject.

There was silence. Finally Lowary said, "That's it, then. Let's move."

The Officers saluted and began to move off. Tudor took two steps, then
halted and returned. "How much time do you think is left, Captain?" he
asked.

Lowary took in the man's square face, the set of his jaw. Tudor was
ex-combat, infantry during the last war.

"Who knows, Lieutenant! Minutes ... or hours. It all depends on how
strong the enemy is, how fast they're moving, if they are sending a boy
to do a man's job."

Tudor looked down the river in the direction of the City some thirty
miles away. He seemed to have difficulty finding words. Lowary knew
what he was thinking and it made him feel weak and inadequate.

Lowary said softly, "We knew it would come some day, didn't we, Tudor?"

Tudor faced him. "I guess we did ..." he hesitated.

"Well?"

"I just didn't think I would draw this kind of duty. I don't mind
fighting, I've had my share. But I guess I feel as Meyers does. This
will be something new for me, shooting my own people."

"Perhaps we won't have to," Lowary said.

Tudor stepped back a pace and gave him a salute. "You don't believe
that any more than I do, Captain." He began to walk away swiftly.

Lowary watched him go and he wondered how many men in the Battery were
thinking the same thing? It could create a serious psychological block.
Damn it. It was bothering him too. But he could do it if he had to. He
knew he could.

He climbed into his jeep and adjusted the radio squelch button,
cutting down on the steady crackling noise. He found himself repeating
under his breath. _I can do it because I know I have to. I can do it
because...._ He jammed down on the starter and shoved the gearshift
into first. He had to force the thoughts from his mind. He had orders
to follow; orders left no room for personal feelings. Yet he knew the
yellow paper in his pocket was mocking him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The jeep was opposite the bridge entrance when he halted it
momentarily. Lieutenant Meyers was busy talking to a machine-gunner
named Morgan. As Lowary recalled, from what little he had seen during
the three weeks he had been commanding the outfit since his transfer
from the middle west, Morgan was a conscientious type of soldier.
Meyers was making a good choice for such a delicate position. He moved
on.

The tires made a low singing sound when he rolled on the bridge, heavy
tread pounding on steel grating.

A sign attached to an upright girder caught his eye. He smiled
sardonically and he wondered what the author had in mind when he
phrased it.

It said: IN EVENT OF AIR ATTACK--DRIVE OFF THE BRIDGE.

The Captain shook his head.

When he got to the center of the bridge he halted the jeep. He got out
and crossed over the lanes to the south railing and looked down at the
gray water. It looks muddy, he thought. A wide, muddy snake winding its
way down to the City. He looked at the horizon. He couldn't see the
City but he knew it was there. He wondered for how long!

It will light up like a torch, he thought. One huge sheet of red and
orange flame a mile high, like the gates of hell swinging open. Then
there would be nothing but a towering mushroom of black smoke to mark
the spot of the largest City in the world.

He found his hand clutching something in his pocket. He took it out and
looked at it. Then, bitterly, he put it away. It was the yellow sheet
of paper again. To read it would be torture.

Lowary ran the zipper up on his loose fitting green field jacket as
a sudden chill took him. He blamed it on the nonexistent wind as he
lighted another cigarette.

The sound of a motor caused him to look up. He narrowed his eyes,
looking at the far end of the bridge. It was Lieutenant Kastner; he
could tell by the foot resting carelessly on the outside fender.
Kastner drove as though he were resting in an easy chair with his feet
nestled on a hassock.

Kastner swung out of the jeep loosely, with the grace of a well
coordinated athlete. A wide grin split his face.

"Just on my way to report to you, Captain. Everything is set up on my
side."

Lowary smiled. He had been on his way to check Kastner. Lowary took in
the blond man's well proportioned body. Kastner looked like the recruit
ad on a "wild-blue-yonder" poster.

Kastner's eyes left Lowary's face. The Captain followed the other's
gaze upward. Two long, white vapor trails were cutting across the blue
sky.

"They're ours," Kastner said. "They're heading North by East, toward
the ocean." He looked at Lowary. "Maybe they can stop it before it
starts!"

"Maybe," the Captain said softly. In his heart he knew it was only a
faint hope. The Air Force never tried to conceal the fact that some of
the enemy could be expected to sneak through in the event of attack.

"I don't think we'll have much trouble at our end of the bridge,
Captain. I don't think anyone will be fighting to go in that
direction," he nodded down the river, in the direction of the City.

"I guess not," Lowary said absently.

"This waiting can be murder," Kastner said. "It just doesn't seem
right, waiting to be clobbered. Sitting here until they drop one down
our throats before we can fight back."

Lowary smiled bitterly. "It's always been that way, Kastner. I suppose
it always will be." Lowary squashed the cigarette butt with his heel.

"How's Meyers taking all this?" Kastner asked. Lowary raised his
eyebrows. "His sister works in the City," Kastner went on. "They're
pretty close."

"I didn't know," Lowary replied. He thought, perhaps I should change
assignments. Kastner wouldn't picture every woman who might try to
break through as his sister. It would make it easier on Meyers.

"You're from Dakota, aren't you, Captain?"

"I was stationed there for three years before this assignment. This is
my first trip East."

"Married?"

"Wife ... son and daughter. The girl is eight, the boy twelve." The
picture of blond, thin, lovable little Susan came to his mind. And
Ronnie, with the freshly found sense of humor, who wanted to be a
writer when he grew up ... if he grew up. He hadn't seen them or Dot
since the transfer came unexpectedly. He missed them, badly. He hadn't
realized how much until just this minute.

"Did you bring your family with you?" Kastner asked.

Lowary shook his head. "No. Dot stayed behind to sell some of the
furniture, and to let the children finish school. It's no good changing
schools in the middle of a semester."

"I guess it isn't. I wouldn't know though. I'm single."

The sound of rubber pounding on the steel grating caused them both to
turn. The Captain expected to see an Army 2-1/2 ton truck. The truck
wasn't olive-drab, it was white. BAKERY was stenciled on the side of
the closed cabin in red letters.

Kastner moved to the opposite lane on a fast run. He waved his arms.
"What are you doing on the bridge?" he shouted. "It's closed to
civilians."

The driver stuck his balding head out of the window. His face was dirty
and tired. "The Lieutenant back there said it was O.K." He looked at
Lowary. "I'm only going to Kingston, Captain."

Lowary turned to Kastner. "Check this guy. I'll be back." He jumped
into his jeep and wheeled it around. This time he kept the accelerator
to the floor. Meyers was a fool!

He found the tall, thin officer leaning on the rail, looking down the
river toward the City. He leaped from the jeep, reached Meyers with two
strides.

"If you have to do that, Lieutenant, do it where the troops can't see
you. It's bad for morale," he said bitterly.

Meyers spun around quickly.

"You had orders to keep this bridge closed, Lieutenant. Why didn't you?"

Meyers opened his mouth, then shut it without saying a word. "Speak
up," Lowary raised his voice. Meyers' eyes met his. "You wouldn't
understand, Captain," Meyers said evenly.

"Try me," Lowary fought to keep his voice down.

"You seem to forget that these are our people ... not the enemy. He was
just a poor working slob who wanted to get home to be with his wife
and kids. To him it might be his last day on earth. Who are we to deny
that?"

Lowary said nothing.

Meyers said, "You're not worrying, your family is safe out in the
Middle West. We know people around here. They aren't just shadows. We
should be helping them."

The Captain took off his helmet. He reached for another cigarette.
Finally he said, "Do you realize how important this bridge is if there
is an attack? It connects one of the routes designated for the relief
of the City if it is hit. You were too young for the last war so you
probably don't realize what happens when wanderers, escapees hit the
road. They can tie it up like a knot so that no one moves. They have
other routes they can use. This one is closed. We've got to keep it for
emergency use."

"What's one truck?" Meyers said.

"One truck, loaded with explosives could park in the middle of this
huge erector set and blow it sky high. All the Reds aren't in those
planes the Coastal Defense sighted. We have some right here, waiting."

"But he wasn't a Red. He lives in Kingston!" Meyers protested.

"How do you know?" Lowary said simply. He didn't wait for Meyers'
answer, he turned and began to walk away.

"Captain!"

Lowary turned at the sound of Tudor's heavy voice. The stocky officer
was waving at him from up the road, pumping his arm with clenched fist
up and down, the signal for double time. Lowary took off on the run. He
could hear Meyers' feet pounding behind him.

Tudor was standing beside a young corporal looking down the steep,
rocky embankment at one of the concrete piers supporting the bridge. A
small figure was making its way toward it.

"It looks like one of our boy's decided to go over the hill," Tudor
said tersely.

Lowary faced the young corporal. "Unsling that rifle, son, and see if
you can pick him off."

Lowary felt Tudor's hand on his arm. "There's no need for that,
Captain. I'll send a squad down to pick him up."

Lowary glanced down at the hand. Tudor removed it. He spoke directly
to the corporal, "I said see if you can pick him off!" The soldier
hesitated. Lowary knew why. The figure down there was in uniform,
probably a friend.

The Captain snatched the rifle from the corporal's frozen fingers. He
slapped the stock against his own shoulder.

"He's probably just a scared, bewildered kid," Meyers cut in quickly.

"If I'm wrong, I'll apologize," Lowary said as he sighted down the
barrel. He planted his feet firmly and squeezed. The stock slammed
him in the shoulder. He cursed, then he squeezed again. This time
he remembered to hold his breath. The figure slumped, fell off the
concrete, into the water.

Lowary juggled the gun once by its balance, then he handed it back to
the corporal who was staring dully at the small figure floating and
bobbing in the water. "You can send that squad down to get him now, if
you want, Lieutenant Tudor," he said before he turned away.

       *       *       *       *       *

He walked slowly. He could have explained, but there wasn't time.
Decisions had to be made quickly, right or wrong. Perhaps the kid
down there _was_ afraid, just running away. But he couldn't take that
chance. There was no reason to believe that the military didn't have
some subversive elements within; the Reds had infiltered everywhere
else. And what better time for the rats to come out of their nests,
then now, when the country was on their target list! One man could be
as dangerous as a Red Division.

Lowary climbed into his jeep conscious of how tired he felt. I'm
getting old, he thought. He leaned back and took off his helmet and
looked up at the clear blue sky, letting the breeze fan his face. A
high, distant speck caught his eye. It was trailed by a four-forked
stream of white. He felt his stomach grow cold, as he stared in
fascination at the four vapor streams that could only be one thing; a
multi-engine bomber. It was coming in from the Northwest, heading for
the City. The enemy had slipped one through the defense.

He tore his eyes from the sky. Perhaps no one else had seen it. It
would be better if they never did.

And so it comes, he thought. The end of an age ... back to the sticks
and stones for good. He drew in on a new cigarette, thinking of Dorothy
and Susan and Ronnie. He became conscious of Meyers standing beside
him. He wished he would go away, there was so little time left to
daydream. He wanted to be alone.

"The guard down the road says there is a pile-up of civilian cars that
demand to go across."

Lowary looked up. "Send some of the reserve platoon down and force them
back. You know the orders!"

"Look, Captain. We've got maybe ten ... fifteen minutes left. What
harm will it do?"

Lowary felt weary. Meyers hadn't failed to see the bomber, neither had
the people in the cars. They knew it was the beginning of the end.
Meyers and Tudor, and the others were wearing him down. He felt like
giving them their damn bridge. It would be easy, so final.

He took the yellow paper out of his pocket and glanced at the pasted
letters again. When he was finished he knew what he had to do. He had
no choice.

Lowary handed the paper to Meyers. "I'll take care of things down the
road. Perhaps you might like to read this while I'm gone," he said. The
Lieutenant looked puzzled when Lowary drove away.

       *       *       *       *       *

The traffic was jammed just as Meyers said it was. The Sergeant in
command of the squad had set up a small road block. A machine-gunner,
Morgan, was sitting behind a .50 Cal. looking down the barrel. Lowary
drove past them, up to the lead car.

As he threw his legs out over the side of the jeep he looked up
quickly. The single multi-engine bomber was overhead, still heading
South. In the distance he could see new vapor streams, much smaller,
much faster. The Interceptor Command was giving chase. Lowary could see
that they would be too late to save the City.

"Please let us through, Captain!" a woman near him asked. She was
slender, she had been crying.

Lowary felt so helpless. He said, "There is nothing I can do. This
bridge must be kept open for relief purposes. It is out of my hands."

"You're a murderer. You're keeping us here to be killed."

"There were other routes open. You should have taken--" The woman flung
herself at him, beating at his chest with her thin hands. "I want to go
home," she screamed.

Lowary took her by the wrists and held her off gently. God give me
strength, he prayed. It would be so easy to let her through, along
with the others. They would be safe, perhaps. But he would be running
the risk of losing the bridge. Everyone in the City wouldn't die,
some would survive the hell blast. They would need medical attention,
supplies, food and water. They deserved that chance.

A man's heavy voice carried above the shouts. "We can get through if we
all try it at the same time. He can't shoot us ... he's in the line of
fire."

Lowary hadn't realized it, but it was true. The machine-gunners were
sighting down his back. He shouted above the rising din, "It makes no
difference, they'll shoot if they have to."

"It's a lie," a woman shouted. Lowary heard the whine of a powerful
motor start up. "Well, I'm for giving it a try," he heard someone far
back say.

Lowary turned and faced the gunners. He could see Morgan's strained
face. The kid looked so young, yet he was the only one Lowary felt he
could depend on. "If anything moves down here I want you to open fire,"
he called to Morgan. "Understand?"

Morgan's helmet nodded slowly.

Lowary turned around. The woman seemed undecided. Lowary spoke softly.
"Why don't you get down off the road, into that gully? You'll be safe
there."

The woman's mouth worked up and down but no words came out. Her face
was white and haggard.

The radio in Lowary's jeep began a familiar crackling sound as someone
on the same frequency pressed a button on a handset.

Lowary was afraid to move. He could easily start a stampede if the
civilians thought he was making the move just to get out of the line of
sight of the machine gunners. Slowly, he raised his hand until it was
near the .45 resting in the holster clipped to his web belt.

He waited.

"LARGO ONE--THIS IS LARGO NINE--OVER."

Lowary edged backwards, still facing the crowd. The woman was crying
now. Down the line of cars he could hear the high powered motor being
gunned as it was being maneuvered out of the line. Soon it would make
the attempt of running down Morgan and the others. It wouldn't stand a
chance, but the others might succeed in the confusion that would follow.

He made the decision then. Deliberately, he turned his back on the
crowd and walked to the jeep.

"Don't let him turn on that radio," a man's voice called. "He will warn
the rest of the troops to be waiting for us."

Lowary picked up the hand-mike. "This is Largo One," he said.

"THIS IS LARGO NINE," the voice on the radio said. "ALL CLEAR. REPEAT.
ALL CLEAR. BOOGIES CLAIM THEY WERE ON A PEACEFUL TRAINING MANEUVER AND
GOT OFF COURSE," the sender's low laugh contained no humor. "RESUME
TRAFFIC ON THE BRIDGE."

Lowary's hand trembled as he laid the 'mike' on the seat. He looked up
at the sky. The jet bomber had veered left, was heading out to sea,
heavily escorted. Lowary took off his helmet and signaled Morgan to let
the civilians through. He knew Meyers and the others had heard on their
own sets.

The enemy had been testing the defenses, he knew. Another calculated
move in the cold war. They were probing, hitting hard with psychology.
While everyone was relaxing, enjoying the reprieve, they could very
well come back. That would be their way.

Lowary was lighting another cigarette when the soldier came up to him,
saluted. "Lieutenant Meyers said to give this to you, sir, and to say
that he was sorry if he didn't understand before." He handed Lowary the
yellow sheet of paper.

Lowary opened the wrinkled telegram and read it again for the tenth
time since that morning. CHILDREN AND I ARRIVED CITY THIS MORNING--WILL
SPEND DAY SHOPPING--SEE YOU TONIGHT DARLING--LOVE--DOT.

Lowary put the telegram in his pocket carefully. "Hop in, son. I'll
give you a lift," he said to the soldier. He looked over his shoulder,
down the river. Then his eyes settled on the bridge. Finally, he said
softly, "We're going home." His heart quickened when he said it.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Bridge, by G.G. Revelle

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BRIDGE ***

***** This file should be named 60303.txt or 60303.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/3/0/60303/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
