The Project Gutenberg EBook of Counterweight, by Jerry Sohl

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Counterweight

Author: Jerry Sohl

Release Date: November 17, 2019 [EBook #60713]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COUNTERWEIGHT ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                             COUNTERWEIGHT

                             By JERRY SOHL

                      _Every town has crime--but
                       especially a town that is
                     traveling from star to star!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Worlds of If Science Fiction, November 1959.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


_Sure I'm a Nilly, and I've died seven times, always in the blackness
of the outer reaches, and I'm not alone, although there aren't very
many of us, never were._

It made sense. Interstellar was new and they wanted him on the ship
because he was a trained observer. They wanted facts, not gibberish.
But to ask a man to give up two years of his life--well, that was
asking a lot. Two years in a sardine can. Still, it had an appeal Keith
Ellason knew he couldn't deny, a newsman's joy of the clean beat, a
planetary system far afield, a closeup view of the universe, history in
the making.

Interstellar Chief Rexroad knocked the dottle from his pipe in a tray,
saying, "Transworld Press is willing to let you have a leave of
abscence, if you're interested."

He knew Secretary Phipps from years of contacting, and now Phipps said,
"Personally, I don't want to see anybody else on the job. You've got a
fine record in this sort of thing."

Keith Ellason smiled, but just barely. "You should have called me for
the first trip."

Phipps nodded. "I wish we had had you on the _Weblor I_."

"Crewmen," Rexroad said, "make poor reporters."

The _Weblor I_ had taken off on the first trip to Antheon five years
before with a thousand families, reached the planet with less than five
hundred surviving colonists. Upon the return to Earth a year later, the
crew's report of suffering and chaos during the year's outgoing voyage
was twisted, distorted and fragmentary. Ellason remembered it well. The
decision of Interstellar was that the colonists started a revolution
far out in space, that it was fanned by the ignorance of Captain
Sessions in dealing with such matters.

"Space affects men in a peculiar way," Phipps said. "We have conquered
the problem of small groups in space--witness the discovery of
Antheon, for example--but when there are large groups, control is more
difficult."

"Sessions," Rexroad said, "was a bully. The trouble started at about
the halfway point. It ended with passengers engaging in open warfare
with each other and the crew. Sessions was lucky to escape with his
life."

"As I recall," Ellason said, "there was something about stunners."

Phipps rubbed his chin. "No weapons were allowed on the ship, but you
must remember the colonists were selected for their intelligence and
resourcefulness. They utilized these attributes to set up weapon shops
to arm themselves."

"The second trip is history," Rexroad said. "And a puzzle."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ellason nodded. "The ship disappeared."

"Yes. We gave control to the colonists."

"Assuming no accident in space," Phipps said, "it was a wrong decision.
They probably took over the ship."

"And now," Ellason said, "you're going to try again."

Rexroad said very gravely, "We've got the finest captain in
Interplanetary. Harvey Branson. No doubt you've heard of him. He's
spent his life in our own system, and he's handpicking his own crew. We
have also raised prerequisites for applicants. We don't think anything
is going to happen, but if it does, we want to get an impersonal,
unprejudiced view. That's where you come in. You do the observing, the
reporting. We'll evaluate it on your return."

"If I return," said Ellason.

"I suppose that's problematical," Phipps said, "but I think you will.
Captain Branson and his fifty crewmen want to return as badly as you
do." He grinned. "You can write that novel you're always talking about
on your return trip on the _Weblor II_."

_Being a Nilly is important, probably as important as running the ship,
and I think it is this thought that keeps us satisfied, willing to be
what we are._

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Weblor II_ had been built in space, as had its predecessor, the
_Weblor I_, at a tremendous cost. Basically, it was an instrument
which would open distant vistas to colonization, reducing the
shoulder-to-shoulder pressure of a crowded solar system. A gigantic,
hollow spike, the ship would never land anywhere, but would circle
Antheon as it circled Earth, shuttling its cargo and passengers to the
promised land, the new frontier. A space-borne metropolis, it would
be the home for three thousand persons outward bound, only the crew
on the return trip. It was equipped with every conceivable facility
and comfort--dining rooms, assembly hall, individual and family
compartments, recreation areas, swimming pool, library, theater.
Nothing had been overlooked.

The captain's briefing room was crowded, the air was heavy with the
breathing of so many men, and the ventilators could not quite clear the
air of tobacco smoke that drifted aimlessly here and there before it
was caught and whisked away.

In the tradition of newspaperman and observer, Keith Ellason tried
to be as inconspicuous as possible, pressing against a bulkhead, but
Captain Branson's eyes sought his several times as Branson listened
to final reports from his engineers, record keepers, fuel men,
computermen, and all the rest. He grunted his approval or disapproval,
made a suggestion here, a restriction there. There was no doubt that
Branson was in charge, yet there was a human quality about him that
Ellason liked. The captain's was a lean face, well tanned, and his eyes
were chunks of blue.

"Gentlemen," Branson said at last, as Ellason knew he would, "I want
to introduce Keith Ellason, whose presence Interstellar has impressed
upon us. On loan from Transworld, he will have an observer status." He
introduced him to the others. All of them seemed friendly; Ellason
thought it was a good staff.

Branson detained him after the others had gone. "One thing, Mr.
Ellason. To make it easier for you, I suggest you think of this journey
strictly from the observer viewpoint. There will be no story for
Transworld at the end."

Ellason was startled. While he had considered the possibility, he had
not dwelt on it. Now it loomed large in his mind. "I don't understand,
Captain Branson. It seems to me--"

"Let me put it differently. Let me say that you will not understand why
I say that until the journey ends." He smiled. "Perhaps I shouldn't
have mentioned it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ellason left the captain's quarters with an odd taste in his mouth. Now
why had Branson said that? Why hadn't Rexroad or Phipps said something,
if it was important?

He made himself comfortable in his seven-foot-by-seven-foot cubicle,
which is to say he dropped on his bed, found it more comfortable than
he thought it would be, put his arms behind his head, stared at the
ceiling. Metal walls, no windows, one floor vent, one ceiling vent,
and a solitary ceiling molding tube-light. This would be his home for
a year, just as there were homes like it for three thousand others,
except that the family rooms would be larger. His quarters were near
the front of the spike near the officers' quarters.

He felt rather than heard the dull rumble. It was a sound he knew would
be with him for two years--one year going and one year returning.

He looked at his watch, picked up his notebook and made an entry. The
ship right now would be slipping ever so slowly away from Earth. He got
up. He'd have to go forward to the observation dome to see that. Last
view of Earth for two years.

_The penetration of space by large groups is the coming out from under
the traditions of thousands of years, and as these planet-orginated
rules fall away, the floundering group seeks a new control, for they
are humanity adrift, rudderless, for whom the stars are no longer
bearings but nonexistent things, and values are altered if they are not
shown the way._

The theft of Carver Janssen's attache case occurred on the thirty-first
day out. In Ellason's mind the incident, though insignificant from the
standpoint of the ship as a whole, could very well be the cause of
dissension later on. His notes covering it were therefore very thorough.

Janssen's case contained vegetable and flower seeds--thousands of
them, according to the Captain's Bulletin, the ship's daily newsletter
which went to all hands and passengers. In the Bulletin the captain
appealed to the thief to return the case to Mr. Janssen. He said it
was significant that all en route had passed stability tests, and that
it was to the ship's discredit that someone with criminal tendencies
should have been permitted aboard.

Ellason had to smile at that. What did Captain Branson think of those
colonists who killed each other on the _Weblor I_? They had passed
stability tests too. This, then, was what happened when you took three
thousand strangers and stuck them in a can for a year.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Ellason saw Branson about it, the captain said, "Of course I
realize it takes only a little thing like this to set things off. I
know people get tired of seeing each other, playing the same tapes,
looking at the stars from the observation dome, walking down the same
corridors, reading the same books, eating the same meals, though God
knows we try to vary it as much as we can. Space creates rough edges.
But the point is, we know all this, and knowing it, we shouldn't let it
happen. We've got to find that thief."

"What would he want seeds for? Have you thought of that?"

"Of course. They'd have real value on Antheon."

Ellason sought out Carver Janssen. He was a middle-aged man with a
tired face and sad eyes. He said, "Now what am I going to Antheon
for? I could only take along so much baggage and I threw out some
comfort items to make room for the seeds. I'm a horticulturist, and
Interstellar asked me to go along. But what use am I now? Where am
I going to get seeds like those? Do you know how long it took me to
collect them? They're not ordinary seeds, Mr. Ellason."

There was an appeal from Janssen in the next day's newsletter
describing the seeds, telling of their value, and requesting their
return in the interests of the Antheon colony and of humanity.

On the thirty-fourth day a witness turned up who said he had seen a
man emerging from Janssen's compartment with the black case. "I didn't
think anything of it at the time," Jamieson Dievers said.

Branson asked him to describe the man.

"Oh, he was about six feet tall, stocky build, and he wore a red rubber
mask that covered his head completely."

"Didn't you think that was important?" Branson asked in an outraged
voice. "A man wearing a red mask?"

Dievers shrugged. "This is a spaceship. How would I know whether a red
mask--or a blue or green one--does or doesn't belong on a spaceship?"

Although Dievers' account appeared in the newsletter, it was largely
discounted.

"If it is true," Branson told Ellason, "the theft must be the work of
a psychotic. But I don't believe Jamieson Dievers. It may well be he's
the psychotic." He snorted. "Red rubber mask! I think I'll have Dievers
put through psychiatry."

Attendant to taking notes on this incident, Ellason noted a strange
thing. Janssen lived in that part of the ship known as the First
Quadrant, and those who lived in that quadrant--more than seven hundred
men, women and children--felt that the thief must surely live in
Quadrant Two or Four. Elias Cromley, who had the compartment next to
Janssen's, sounded the consensus when he said, "Surely a man wouldn't
steal from his own quadrant, now would he, Mr. Ellason?"

And so, Ellason observed in his notebook, are wars created.

_Seen in space, stars are unmoving, silent, sterile bright eyes ever
watchful and accusing. To men unused to it, such a sight numbs,
compresses, stultifies. He introduces a countermeasure, proof he
exists, which is any overt act, sometimes violent._

       *       *       *       *       *

On the forty-fifth day June Failright, the young wife of one of the
passenger meteorologists, ran screaming down one of the long corridors
of the Third Quadrant. She told the captain she had been attacked in
her compartment while her husband was in the ship's library. She was
taken to one of the ship's doctors, who confirmed it.

She said the culprit was a husky man wearing a red rubber mask, and
though her description of what he had done did not appear in the story
in the newsletter, it lost no time in penetrating every compartment of
the ship.

Ellason was present when a delegation from the Third Quadrant called on
Captain Branson, demanding action.

Branson remained seated behind his desk, unperturbed, saying, "I have
no crewmen to spare for police duty."

The delegation commenced speaking vehemently, to be quieted by
Branson's raised hand.

"I sympathize," Branson said, "but it is up to each quadrant to deal
with its problems, whatever they may be. My job is to get us to
Antheon."

The group left in a surly mood.

"You wonder at my reluctance, Mr. Ellason," Captain Branson said. "But
suppose I assign the crew to patrol duties, the culprit isn't caught,
and further incidents occur. What then? It soon becomes the crew's
fault. And soon the colonists will begin thinking these things might be
the crew's doing in the first place."

"Yes," Ellason said, "but what if the intruder is a crewman?"

"I know my men," Branson said flatly.

"You could have a shake-down for the mask and the seed case."

"Do you think it is a member of the crew?" Branson's eyes were bright.
"No, I trust my men. I won't violate that trust."

Ellason left, feeling uneasy. If he were Branson, he'd initiate an
investigation, if nothing else than to prove the crew guiltless. Why
couldn't Branson see the wisdom of setting an example for the colonists?

_As a Nilly, I knew that space breeds hate. There is a seed of
malevolence in every man. It sometimes blossoms out among the stars. On
the_ Weblor II _it was ready for ripening._

Raymond Palugger was killed in the ship's hospital on the sixty-first
day. Palugger, a Fourth Quadrant passenger, had complained of feeling
ill, had been hospitalized with a diagnosis of ileus. He had put his
money belt in the drawer of the small stand beside his bed. A man
in a red mask was seen hurrying from the hospital area, and a staff
investigation revealed that Palugger had died trying to prevent the
theft of the belt.

Captain Branson did not wait for the newsletter. Through the ship's
speaker system, he reported that Palugger had a fortune in credits
in the belt and had died of a severe beating. He said that since the
incident occurred in the staff section of the ship, his crew would be
forced to submit to a thorough inspection in an effort to find the
mask, the seed case, the money and the man.

"I will not countenance such an act by a crewman," Branson said. "If
and when he is found, he will be severely dealt with. But he might not
be a member of the crew. I am ordering an assembly of all passengers at
nine tomorrow morning in the auditorium. I will speak to you all then."

       *       *       *       *       *

Faces were angry, tongues were sharp at the meeting, eyes suspicious
and tempers short. Above it all was the overpowering presence of
Captain Branson speaking to them.

"It is not my desire to interfere in passenger affairs," he said.
"Insofar as the ship is concerned, it is my duty to make certain no
crewman is guilty. This I am doing. But my crew is not and cannot be
a police force for you. It is up to you people to police and protect
yourselves."

"How can we protect ourselves without stunners?" one colonist called
out.

"Has Red Mask a gun?" Branson retorted. "It seems to me you have a
better weapon than any gun."

"What's that?"

"This ship is only so wide, so long and so deep. If every inch is
searched, you'll find your man. He has to be somewhere aboard."

The colonists quieted. Benjamin Simpson, one of the older men, was
elected president of the newly formed Quadrant Council. One man from
each of the quadrants was named to serve under him. Each of these men
in turn selected five others from his own group.

Those assembled waited in the hall while each team of six inspected
the compartments of the others. These compartments were then locked,
everyone returned to his compartment, and the larger search was
conducted. It took twenty hours.

No mask was found. No mask, no case, no money, no man.

The captain reported that his search had been equally fruitless.
At another assembly the following day it was decided to make the
inspection teams permanent, to await further moves on the part of Red
Mask. The Quadrant Council held periodic meetings to set up a method of
trial for him when he was caught. It was all recorded in the newsletter
and by Keith Ellason.

_We Nillys know about hate and about violence. We know too that where
there is hate there is violence, and where there is violence there is
death._

       *       *       *       *       *

During sleep time on the seventy-ninth day Barbara Stoneman, awakened
by a strange sound, sat up in the bed of her compartment to find a
man in a red mask in her room. Her cries brought neighbors into the
corridor. The flight of the man was witnessed by many, and several men
tried to stop him. But the intruder was light on his feet and fast. He
escaped.

The Quadrant Council confronted the captain, demanding weapons.

"Are you out of your minds?" Branson exclaimed.

Tom Tilbury, Fourth Quadrant leader, said, "We want to set up a police
force, Captain. We want stunners."

"There's no law against it," Branson said, "but it's a rule of mine
that no weapons are to be issued en route."

"If we had had a gun, we'd have got Red Mask," Tilbury said.

"And I might have a murder on my conscience."

Tilbury said, "We've also thought of that. Suppose you supply us with
half-power stunners? That way we can stun but not kill."

They got their guns. Now there were twenty-four policemen on duty in
the corridors--eight on at a time. Ellason observed that for the first
time the passengers seemed relaxed.

Let Red Mask move against armed men, they said.

Yeah, let him see what happens now.

Red Mask did.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 101st day he was seen in a corridor in Quadrant Four. Emil
Pierce, policeman on duty, managed to squeeze off several shots at his
retreating figure.

Red Mask was seen again on the 120th day, on the 135th day, and the
157th day. He was seen, shot at, but not hit. He was also unable to
commit any crime.

We've got him on the run, the colonists said.

He's afraid to do anything, now that we've got police protection, they
said smugly.

The Quadrant Council congratulated itself. The passengers were proud
of themselves. A special congratulatory message from Captain Branson
appeared one day in the Bulletin newsletter.

The colonists settled down to living out the rest of the voyage until
the landing on Antheon.

But on the 170th day calamity struck. Red Mask appropriated one of the
stunners, made his way down one whole corridor section in Quadrant Two,
put occupants to sleep as he went, taking many articles of value and
leaving disorder behind.

Ellason interviewed as many victims as he could, noted it all in
his book. The things taken were keepsakes, photographs and items of
personal value. It seemed to be the work of a madman. If Red Mask
wanted to make everyone furious, he certainly succeeded.

"What does he want that stuff for?" Casey Stromberg, a passenger
doctor, asked. "I can see him taking my narcotics, my doctor's kit--but
my dead wife's picture? That I don't understand."

It was the same with others. "The man's insane, Mr. Ellason. Positively
insane." Many people said it.

The council issued orders that all passengers from now on would be
required to lock their compartments at all times. More guns were
obtained from the captain. More policemen were appointed.

Ellason was busy noting it all in his book. It became filled with
jottings about innocent people being accidentally stunned when
trigger-happy policemen thought their movements suspicious, about one
man's suspicion of another and the ensuing search of compartments,
people who saw Red Mask here, saw him there. Hardly a day went by
without some new development.

"Oh, yes, Mr. Ellason, we're going to get him," said Tilbury, now chief
of police, cracking his knuckles, his eyes glowing at the thought.
"We're bound to get him. We've got things worked out to the finest
detail. He won't be able to get through our fingers now. Just let him
make so much as a move."

"And what will you do when you get him?"

"Kill him," Tilbury said, licking his lips, his eyes glowing more
fiercely than ever.

"Without a trial?"

"Oh, there'll be a trial, Mr. Ellason, but you don't think any jury'd
let him live after all the things he's done, do you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Red Mask was stunned in Quadrant Four in a corridor by a policeman
named Terryl Placer on the 201st day. The criminal was carried to the
assembly room surrounded by guards, for he surely would have been
mauled, if not killed, by angry colonists who crowded around. In the
assembly hall his mask was whipped off. The crowd gasped. Nobody knew
him.

Ellason's first thought was that he must be a stowaway, but then he
remembered the face, and Captain Branson, who came to have a look at
him, unhappily admitted the man was a member of the crew. His name was
Harrel Critten and he was a record keeper third class.

"Well, Critten," Branson roared at him, "what have you got to say for
yourself?"

"Go to hell," Critten said quietly. As if it were an afterthought, he
spat at the captain.

Branson looked as if he were going to kill the man himself right there
and then.

It was a long trial--from the 220th to the 241st day--and there didn't
seem to be much doubt about the outcome, for Critten didn't help his
own cause during any of it.

Lemuel Tarper, who was appointed prosecutor, asked him, "What did you
do with the loot, Critten?"

Critten looked him square in the eye and said, "I threw it out one of
the escape chutes. Does that answer your question?"

"Threw it away?" Tarper and the crowd were incredulous.

"Sure," Critten said. "You colonists got the easy life as passengers,
just sitting around. I had to work my head off keeping records for you
lazy bastards."

The verdict was, of course, death.

They executed Harrel Critten on the morning of the 270th day with
blasts from six stunners supplied with full power. It was witnessed
by a great crowd in the assembly hall. A detail from the ship's crew
disposed of his body through a chute.

It was all duly recorded in Keith Ellason's notebooks.

_Dying is easy for a Nilly. Especially if it's arranged for beforehand,
which it always is._

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Weblor II_ was only one day out of orbit when Captain Branson sent
for Ellason and introduced him to the executed man.

"Hello," Critten said, grinning from ear to ear.

"I figured as much," Ellason said. "I've been doing a lot of thinking."

"You're perhaps a little too good as an observer," Branson said. "Or
maybe it was because you really weren't one of the colonists. But no
matter, Critten did a good job. He was trained by an old friend of mine
for this job, Gelthorpe Nill. Nill used to be in counter-espionage when
there were wars."

"You were excellent," Ellason said.

"Can't say I enjoyed the role," said Critten, "but I think it saved
lives."

"Let me get this straight. Interstellar thought that it was idleness
and boredom that caused the killings on the _Weblor I_, so they had you
trained to be a scapegoat. Is that right?"

Critten nodded. "When great numbers are being transported, they are apt
to magnify each little event because so little happens. It was my job
to see that they directed none of their venom against each other or the
crew, only toward me."

Branson smiled. "It made the time pass quickly and interestingly for
the passengers."

"To say nothing of me," Critten said.

"And you, Mr. Ellason, were along to observe it all," Captain Branson
put in. "Interstellar wanted an accurate picture of this. If it worked,
they told me they'd use it on other trips to Antheon."

Ellason nodded. "No time for brooding, for differences of opinion on
small matters. Just time to hate Mr. Critten. Unanimously."

"Probably," Critten said, "you are wondering about the execution."

"Naturally."

"We removed the charges before the guns were used."

"And Carver Janssen's case?"

"He'll get it back when he's shuttled to Antheon. And all the other
items will be returned. They're all tagged with their owner's names.
Captain Branson will say they were found somewhere on the ship. You
see, I was a liar."

"How about that assault on June Failright?"

Critten grinned again. "She played right into our hands. She ran out
into the hall claiming I'd attacked her, which I did not. She was
certainly amazed when the ship's physicians agreed with her. Of course
Captain Branson told them to do that."

"And the murder?"

"Raymond Palugger died in the hospital all right, but he died from
his illness on the operating table. We turned it into an advantage by
making it look suspicious."

Ellason brightened. "And by that time everybody was seeing Red Mask
everywhere and the colonists organized against him."

"Gave them something to do," Branson said.

"Every time things got dull, I livened them up. I got a stunner and
robbed along the corridor. That really stirred them. Lucky nobody got
hurt during any of it, including that Stoneman woman. I was trying to
rob her when she woke up."

       *       *       *       *       *

Branson cleared his throat. "Ah, Ellason about that story. You
understand you can't write it, don't you?"

Ellason said regretfully that he did understand.

"The colonists will never know the truth," Branson went on. "There will
be other ships outward bound."

Critten sighed. "And I'll have to be caught again."

_Yes, we're anonymous, nameless, we Nillys, for that's what we call
each other, and are a theme, with variations, in the endless stretches
of deep space, objects of hatred and contempt, professional heels,
dying once a trip when the time is ripe, antidote to boredom, and we'll
ply our trade, our little tragedies, on a thousand ships bringing
humanity to new worlds._





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Counterweight, by Jerry Sohl

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COUNTERWEIGHT ***

***** This file should be named 60713.txt or 60713.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/7/1/60713/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
