The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Good Seed, by Mark Mallory

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Good Seed

Author: Mark Mallory

Release Date: November 22, 2019 [EBook #60761]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GOOD SEED ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                             the good seed

                            By MARK MALLORY

                   _The island was drowning--if they
                  failed to find some common ground,
                      both of them were doomed._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Worlds of If Science Fiction, January 1960.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


They said--as they have said of so many frontiersmen just like
him--that there must have been a woman in his past, to make him what he
was. And indeed there had, but she was no flesh-and-blood female. The
name of his lady was Victoria, whom the Greeks called Nike and early
confounded with the Pallas Athena, that sterile maiden. And at the age
of thirty-four she had Calvin Mulloy most firmly in her grasp, for he
had neither wife nor child, nor any close friend worth mentioning--only
his hungry dream for some great accomplishment.

It had harried him to the stars, that dream of his. It had driven
him to the position of top survey engineer on the new, raw planet of
Mersey, still largely unexplored and unmapped. And it had pushed him,
too, into foolishnesses like this latest one, building a sailplane out
of scrap odds and ends around the Mersey Advance Base--a sailplane
which had just this moment been caught in a storm and cracked up on an
island the size of a city backyard, between the banks of one of the
mouths of the Adze River.

The sailplane was gone the moment it hit. Actually it had come down
just short of the island and floated quickly off, what was left of
it, while Calvin was thrashing for the island with that inept stroke
of his. He pulled himself up, gasping, onto the rocks, and, with the
coolness of a logical man who has faced crises before, set himself
immediately to taking stock of his situation.

He was wet and winded, but since he was undrowned and on solid land in
the semitropics, he dismissed that part of it from his mind. It had
been full noon when he had been caught in the storm, and it could not
be much more than minutes past that now, so swiftly had everything
happened; but the black, low clouds, racing across the sky, and the
gusts of intermittent rain, cut visibility down around him.

He stood up on his small island and leaned against the wind that blew
in and up the river from the open gulf. On three sides he saw nothing
but the fast-riding waves. On the fourth, though, shading his eyes
against the occasional bursts of rain, he discerned a long, low,
curving blackness that would be one of the river shores.

There lay safety. He estimated its distance from him at less than a
hundred and fifty yards. It was merely, he told himself, a matter of
reaching it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under ordinary conditions, he would have settled down where he was and
waited for rescue. He was not more than fifteen or twenty miles from
the Advance Base, and in this storm they would waste no time waiting
for him to come in, before starting out to search for him. No sailplane
could survive in such a blow. Standing now, with the wind pushing at
him and the rain stinging against his face and hands, he found time
for a moment's wry humor at his own bad luck. On any civilized world,
such a storm would have been charted and predicted, if not controlled
entirely. Well, the more fool he, for venturing this far from Base.

It was in his favor that this world of Mersey happened to be so
Earthlike that the differences between the two planets were mostly
unimportant. Unfortunately, it was the one unimportant difference that
made his present position on the island a death trap. The gulf into
which his river emptied was merely a twentieth the area of the Gulf of
Mexico--but in this section it was extremely shallow, having an overall
average depth of around seventy-five feet. When one of these flash
storms formed suddenly out over its waters, the wind could either drain
huge tidal areas around the mouths of the Adze, or else raise the river
level within hours a matter of thirty feet.

With the onshore wind whistling about his ears right now, it was only
too obvious to Calvin that the river was rising. This rocky little bit
sticking some twelve or fifteen feet above the waves could expect to be
overwhelmed in the next few hours.

He looked about him. The island was bare except for a few straggly
bushes. He reached out for a shoot from a bush beside him. It came up
easily from the thin layer of soil that overlaid the rocks, and the
wind snatched it out of his hand. He saw it go skipping over the tops
of the waves in the direction of the shore, until a wave-slope caught
it and carried it into the next trough and out of sight. It at least,
he thought, would reach the safety of the river bank. But it would take
a thousand such slender stems, plaited into a raft, to do him any good;
and there were not that many stems, and not that much time.

Calvin turned and climbed in toward the center high point of the
island. It was only a few steps over the damp soil and rocks, but when
he stood upright on a little crown of rock and looked about him, it
seemed that the island was smaller than ever, and might be drowned at
any second by the wind-lashed waves. Moreover, there was nothing to be
seen which offered him any more help or hope of escape.

Even then, he was not moved to despair. He saw no way out, but this
simply reinforced his conviction that the way out was hiding about him
somewhere, and he must look that much harder for it.

He was going to step down out of the full force of the wind, when he
happened to notice a rounded object nestling in a little hollow of the
rock below him, about a dozen or so feet away.

       *       *       *       *       *

He went and stood over it, seeing that his first guess as to its nature
had been correct. It was one of the intelligent traveling plants
that wandered around the oceans of this world. It should have been at
home in this situation. Evidently, however, it had made the mistake
of coming ashore here to seed. It was now rooted in the soil of the
island, facing death as surely as he; if the wind or the waves tore it
from its own helplessly anchored roots.

"Can you understand me?" he asked it.

There was an odd sort of croaking from it, which seemed to shape itself
into words, though the how of it remained baffling to the ear. It was
a sort of supplemental telepathy at work, over and above the rough
attempts to imitate human speech. Some of these intelligent plants
they had got to know in this area could communicate with them in this
fashion, though most could not.

"I know you, man," said the plant. "I have seen your gathering." It was
referring to the Advance Base, which had attracted a steady stream of
the plant visitors at first.

"Know any way to get ashore?" Calvin asked.

"There is none," said the plant.

"I can't see any, either."

"There is none," repeated the plant.

"Everyone to his own opinion," said Calvin. Almost he sneered a little.
He turned his gaze once more about the island. "In my book, them that
_won't_ be beat _can't_ be beat. That's maybe where we're different,
plant."

He left the plant and went for a walk about the island. It had been
in his mind that possibly a drifting log or some such could have
been caught by the island and he could use this to get ashore. He
found nothing. For a few minutes, at one end of the island, he stood
fascinated, watching a long sloping black rock with a crack in it,
reaching down into the water. There was a small tuft of moss growing
in the crack about five inches above where the waves were slapping. As
he watched, the waves slapped higher and higher, until he turned away
abruptly, shivering, before he could see the water actually reach and
cover the little clump of green.

For the first time a realization that he might not get off the island
touched him. It was not yet fear, this realization, but it reached
deep into him and he felt it, suddenly, like a pressure against his
heart. As the moss was being covered, so could he be covered, by the
far-reaching inexorable advance of the water.

And then this was wiped away by an abrupt outburst of anger and
self-ridicule that he--who had been through so many dangers--should
find himself pinned by so commonplace a threat. A man, he told
himself, could die of drowning anywhere. There was no need to go
light-years from his place of birth to find such a death. It made all
dying--and all living--seem small and futile and insignificant, and he
did not like that feeling.

       *       *       *       *       *

Calvin went back to the plant in its little hollow, tight-hugging to
the ground and half-sheltered from the wind, and looked down on its
dusky basketball-sized shape, the tough hide swollen and ready to burst
with seeds.

"So you think there's no way out," he said roughly.

"There is none," said the plant.

"Why don't you just let yourself go if you think like that?" Calvin
said. "Why try to keep down out of the wind, if the waves'll get you
anyway, later?"

The plant did not answer for a while.

"I do not want to die," it said then. "As long as I am alive, there is
the possibility of some great improbable chance saving me."

"Oh," said Calvin, and he himself was silent in turn. "I thought you'd
given up."

"I cannot give up," said the plant. "I am still alive. But I know there
is no way to safety."

"You make a lot of sense." Calvin straightened up to squint through the
rain at the dark and distant line of the shore. "How much more time
would you say we had before the water covers this rock?"

"The eighth part of a daylight period, perhaps more, perhaps less. The
water can rise either faster or more slowly."

"Any chance of it cresting and going down?"

"That would be a great improbable chance such as that of which I
spoke," said the plant.

Calvin rotated slowly, surveying the water around them. Bits and pieces
of flotsam were streaming by them on their way before the wind, now
angling toward the near bank. But none were close enough or large
enough to do Calvin any good.

"Look," said Calvin abruptly, "there's a fisheries survey station
upriver here, not too far. Now, I could dig up the soil holding your
roots. If I did that, would you get to the survey station as fast as
you could and tell them I'm stranded here?"

"I would be glad to," said the plant. "But you cannot dig me up. My
roots have penetrated into the rock. If you tried to dig me up, they
would break off--and I would die that much sooner."

"You would, would you?" grunted Calvin. But the question was
rhetorical. Already his mind was busy searching for some other way out.
For the first time in his life, he felt the touch of cold about his
heart. Could this be fear, he wondered. But he had never been afraid of
death.

Crouching down again to be out of the wind and rain, he told himself
that knowledge still remained a tool he could use. The plant must know
something that was, perhaps, useless to it, but that could be twisted
to a human's advantage.

"What made you come to a place like this to seed?" he asked.

"Twenty nights and days ago, when I first took root here," said the
plant, "this land was safe. The signs were good for fair weather. And
this place was easy of access from the water. I am not built to travel
far on land."

"How would you manage in a storm like this, if you were not rooted
down?"

"I would go with the wind until I found shelter," said the plant. "The
wind and waves would not harm me then. They hurt only whatever stands
firm and opposes them."

"You can't communicate with others of your people from here, can you?"
asked Calvin.

"There are none close," said the plant. "Anyway, what could they do?"

"They could get a message to the fisheries station, to get help out
here for us."

"What help could help me?" said the plant. "And in any case they could
not go against the wind. They would have to be upwind of the station,
even to help you."

"We could try it."

"We could try it," agreed the plant. "But first one of my kind must
come into speaking range. We still hunt our great improbable chance."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a moment's silence between them in the wind and rain. The
river was noisy, working against the rock of the island.

"There must be something that would give us a better chance than just
sitting here," said Calvin.

The plant did not answer.

"What are you thinking about?" demanded Calvin.

"I am thinking of the irony of our situation," said the plant. "You are
free to wander the water, but cannot. I can wander the water, but I am
not free to do so. This is death, and it is a strange thing."

"I don't get you."

"I only mean that it makes no difference--that I am what I am, or that
you are what you are. We could be any things that would die when the
waves finally cover the island."

"Right enough," said Calvin impatiently. "What about it?"

"Nothing about it, man," said the plant. "I was only thinking."

"Don't waste your time on philosophy," said Calvin harshly. "Use some
of that brain power on a way to get loose and get off."

"Perhaps that and philosophy are one and the same."

"You're not going to convince me of that," said Calvin, getting up.
"I'm going to take another look around the island."

       *       *       *       *       *

The island, as he walked around its short margin, showed itself to be
definitely smaller. He paused again by the black rock. The moss was
lost now, under the water, and the crack was all but under as well. He
stood shielding his eyes against the wind-driven rain, peering across
at the still visible shore. The waves, he noted, were not extreme--some
four or five feet in height--which meant that the storm proper was
probably paralleling the land some distance out in the gulf.

He clenched his fists in sudden frustration. If only he had hung on to
the sailplane--or any decent-sized chunk of it! At least going into the
water then would have been a gamble with some faint chance of success.

He had nowhere else to go, after rounding the island. He went back to
the plant.

"Man," said the plant, "one of my people has been blown to shelter a
little downstream."

Calvin straightened up eagerly, turning to stare into the wind.

"You cannot see him," said the plant. "He is caught below the river
bend and cannot break loose against the force of the wind. But he is
close enough to talk. And he sends you good news."

"Me?" Calvin hunkered down beside the plant. "Good news?"

"There is a large tree torn loose from the bank and floating this way.
It should strike the little bit of land where we are here."

"Strike it? Are you positive?"

"There are the wind and the water and the tree. They can move only to
one destination--this island. Go quickly to the windward point of the
island. The tree will be coming shortly."

Calvin jerked erect and turned, wild triumph bursting in him.

"Good-by, man," said the plant.

But he was already plunging toward the downstream end of the island. He
reached it and, shielding his eyes with a hand, peered desperately out
over the water. The waves hammered upon his boots as he stood there,
and then he saw it, a mass of branches upon which the wind was blowing
as on a sail, green against black, coming toward him.

       *       *       *       *       *

He crouched, wrung with impatience, as the tree drifted swiftly through
the water toward him, too ponderous to rise and fall more than a little
with the waves and presenting a galleonlike appearance of mass and
invincibility. As it came closer, a fear that it would, in spite of the
plant's assurances, miss the island, crept into his heart and chilled
it.

It seemed to Calvin that it was veering--that it would pass to windward
of the island, between him and the dimly seen shore. The thought of
losing it was more than he could bear to consider; and with a sudden
burst of panic, he threw himself into the waves, beating clumsily and
frantically for it.

The river took him into its massive fury. He had forgotten the strength
of it. His first dive took him under an incoming wave, and he emerged,
gasping, into the trough behind, with water exploding in his face.
He kicked and threw his arms about, but the slow and futile-seeming
beatings of his limbs appeared helpless as the fluttering of a
butterfly in a collector's net. He choked for air, and, rising on the
crest of one wave, found himself turned backward to face the island,
and being swept past it.

Fear came home to him then. He lashed out, fighting only for the
solid ground of the island and his life. His world became a place of
foam and fury. He strained for air. He dug for the island. And then,
suddenly, he felt himself flung upon hard rock and gasping, crawling,
he emerged onto safety.

He hung there on hands and knees, battered and panting. Then the
remembrance of the tree cut like a knife to the core of his fear-soaked
being. He staggered up, and, looking about, saw that he was almost to
the far end of the island. He turned. Above him, at the windward point,
the tree itself was just now grounding, branches first, and swinging
about as the long trunk, caught by the waves, pulled it around and
onward.

With an inarticulate cry, he ran toward it. But the mass of water
against the heavy tree trunk was already pulling the branches from
their tanglings with the rock. It floated free. Taking the wind once
more in its sail of leaves, it moved slowly--and then more swiftly on
past the far side of the island.

He scrambled up his side of the island's crest. But when he reached its
top and could see the tree again, it was already moving past and out
from the island, too swiftly for him to catch it, even if he had been
the swimmer he had just proved himself not to be.

He dropped on his knees, there on the island's rocky spine, and
watched it fade in the grayness of the rain, until the green of its
branches was lost in a grayish blob, and this in the general welter of
storm and waves. And suddenly a dark horror of death closed over him,
blotting out all the scene.

       *       *       *       *       *

A voice roused him. "That is too bad," said the plant.

He turned his head numbly. He was kneeling less than half a dozen feet
from the little hollow where the plant still sheltered. He looked at it
now, dazed, as if he could not remember what it was, nor how it came to
talk to him. Then his eyes cleared a little of their shock and he crept
over to it on hands and knees and crouched in the shelter of the hollow.

"The water is rising more swiftly," said the plant. "It will be not
long now."

"No!" said Calvin. The word was lost in the sound of the waves and
wind, as though it had never been. Nor, the minute it was spoken,
could he remember what he had meant to deny by it. It had been only a
response without thought, an instinctive negation.

"You make me wonder," said the plant, after a little, "why it hurts you
so--this thought of dying. Since you first became alive, you have faced
ultimate death. And you have not faced it alone. All things die. This
storm must die. This rock on which we lie will not exist forever. Even
worlds and suns come at last to their ends, and galaxies, perhaps even
the Universe."

Calvin shook his head. He did not answer.

"You are a fighting people," said the plant, almost as if to itself.
"Well and good. Perhaps a life like mine, yielding, giving to the
forces of nature, traveling before the wind, sees less than you see, of
a reason for clawing hold on existence. But still it seems to me that
even a fighter would be glad at last to quit the struggle, when there
is no other choice."

"Not here," said Calvin thickly. "Not now."

"Why not here, why not now," said the plant, "when it has to be
somewhere and sometime?"

Calvin did not answer.

"I feel sorry for you," said the plant. "I do not like to see things
suffer."

Raising his head a little and looking around him, Calvin could see the
water, risen high around them, so that waves were splashing on all
sides, less than the length of his own body away.

"It wouldn't make sense to you," said Calvin then, raising his rain-wet
face toward the plant. "You're old by your standards. I'm young. I've
got things to do. You don't understand."

"No," the plant agreed. "I do not understand."

       *       *       *       *       *

Calvin crawled a little closer to the plant, into the hollow, until
he could see the vibrating air-sac that produced the voice of the
plant. "Don't you see? I've got to do something--I've got to feel I've
accomplished something--before I quit."

"What something?" asked the plant.

"I don't _know_!" cried Calvin. "I just know I haven't! I feel thrown
away!"

"What is living? It is feeling and thinking. It is seeding and trying
to understand. It is companionship of your own people. What more is
there?"

"You have to do something."

"Do what?"

"Something important. Something to feel satisfied about." A wave,
higher than the rest, slapped the rock a bare couple of feet below them
and sent spray stinging in against them. "You have to say, 'Look, maybe
it wasn't much, but I did this.'"

"What kind of this?"

"How do I know?" shouted Calvin. "Something--maybe something nobody
else did--maybe something that hasn't been done before!"

"For yourself?" said the plant. A higher wave slapped at the very rim
of their hollow, and a little water ran over and down to pool around
them. Calvin felt it cold around his knees and wrists. "Or for the
doing?"

"For the doing! For the doing!"

"If it is for the doing, can you take no comfort from the fact there
are others of your own kind to do it?"

Another wave came in on them. Calvin moved spasmodically right up
against the plant and put his arms around it, holding on.

"I have seeded ten times and done much thinking," said the
plant--rather muffledly, for Calvin's body was pressing against its
air-sac. "I have not thought of anything really new, or startling, or
great, but I am satisfied." It paused a moment as a new wave drenched
them and receded. They were half awash in the hollow now, and the
waves came regularly. "I do not see how this is so different from what
you have done. But I am content." Another and stronger wave rocked
them. The plant made a sound that might have been of pain at its roots
tearing. "Have you seeded?"

"No," said Calvin, and all at once, like light breaking at last into
the dark cave of his being, in this twelfth hour, it came to him--all
of what he had robbed himself in his search for a victory. Choking on a
wave, he clung to the plant with frenzied strength. "Nothing!" The word
came torn from him as if by some ruthless hand. "I've got nothing!"

"Then I understand at last," said the plant. "For of all things, the
most terrible is to die unfruitful. It is no good to say we _will_
not be beaten, because there is always waiting, somewhere, that which
can beat us. And then a life that is seedless goes down to defeat
finally and forever. But when one has seeded, there is no ending of the
battle, and life mounts on life until the light is reached by those far
generations in which we have had our own small but necessary part. Then
our personal defeat has been nothing, for though we died, we are still
living, and though we fell, we conquered."

But Calvin, clinging to the plant with both arms, saw only the water
closing over him.

"Too late--" he choked. "Too late--too late--"

"No," bubbled the plant. "Not too late yet. This changes things. For
I have seeded ten times and passed on my life. But you--I did not
understand. I did not realize your need."

       *       *       *       *       *

The flood, cresting, ran clear and strong, the waves breaking heavily
on the drowned shore by the river mouth. The rescue spinner, two hours
out of Base and descending once again through the fleeting murk,
checked at the sight of a begrimed human figure, staggering along the
slick margin of the shore, carrying something large and limp under one
arm, and with the other arm poking at the ground with a stick.

The spinner came down almost on top of him, and the two men in it
reached to catch Calvin. He could hardly stand, let alone stumble
forward, but stumble he did.

"Cal!" said the pilot. "Hold up! It's us."

"Let go," said Calvin thickly. He pulled loose, dug with his stick,
dropped something from the limp thing into the hole he had made, and
moved on.

"You out of your head, Cal?" cried the co-pilot. "Come on, we've got to
get you back to the hospital."

"No," said Calvin, pulling away again.

"What're you doing?" demanded the pilot. "What've you got there?"

"Think-plant. Dead," said Calvin, continuing his work. "_Let go!_" He
fought weakly, but so fiercely that they did turn him loose again. "You
don't understand. Saved my life."

"Saved your life?" The pilot followed him. "How?"

"I was on an island. In the river. Flood coming up." Calvin dug a fresh
hole in the ground. "It could have lived a little longer. It let me
pull it ahead of time--so I'd have something to float to shore on." He
turned exhaustion-bleared eyes on them. "Saved my life."

The pilot and the co-pilot looked at each other as two men look at each
other over the head of a child, or a madman.

"All right, Cal," said the pilot. "So it saved your life. But how come
you've got to do this? And what _are_ you doing, anyhow?"

"What am I doing?" Calvin paused entirely and turned to face them.
"What am I doing?" he repeated on a rising note of wonder. "Why, you
damn fools, I'm doing the first real thing I ever did in my life! I'm
saving the lives of these seeds!"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Good Seed, by Mark Mallory

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GOOD SEED ***

***** This file should be named 60761.txt or 60761.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/7/6/60761/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
