The Project Gutenberg EBook of Assassin, by Bascom Jones

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Assassin

Author: Bascom Jones

Release Date: December 12, 2019 [EBook #60907]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ASSASSIN ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                               ASSASSIN

                         By BASCOM JONES, JR.

                        _Everyone is allowed to
                     commit an error. The trouble
                         was that I couldn't._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Worlds of If Science Fiction, January 1961.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I deliberately dug my heels into the concrete floor of the corridor of
the Pentagon. The steel plates on the heels of my black uniform boots
heralded my approach with sharp anvil sounds as I marched confidently
toward the unmarked door five hundred feet ahead.

What was that expression used by Earth people of the 20th century? I
shifted back through my training, shuffled through the facts about
Earth's past history with which I had been indoctrinated, searching for
the word. _Assassin!_ That was it. But the term fell short. It lacked
in magnitude. There was a difference in the murder of one person and
the assassination of the occupants of an entire planet!

One foot in front of the other, I paced off the distance toward the end
of the hallway, carefully duplicating the strut which was a trademark
of the Earth Council's Security Police. I'd practiced the peculiar,
jolting method of walking a thousand times, but I began to feel the
effects of Earth's heavier gravity before I had covered half the
distance. It had been impossible to simulate the difference in gravity
in my training.

The two guards standing outside the door alertly watched my approach.
When I was still four paces away, one of them ordered me to stop.
They ignored as though they were not there the gold stars prominently
displayed on the shoulders of my tunic.

The guard on the left said, "Your ID card, sir."

The guards were well trained. They would not hesitate to shoot if I
made the slightest slip.

I handed the card to him and watched as he held it up to a visi-scanner
in the wall. The scanner glowed into life and purred softly, rapidly
checking the invisible identification codings on the card against the
ID component of Earth's Master Machine. Then it dulled and was silent.
The strident alarm siren over the scanner remained inactive. The ID
card was returned to me and the guards snapped smartly to attention as
I went on into the room beyond the door.

I had passed the first test.

       *       *       *       *       *

The reception room was small. Thick carpeting deadened the clump of my
heels as I marched toward the chromed desk guarding a second unmarked
door. A flawlessly proportioned redhead sat behind the desk. Her eyes
and face showed no expression when I stopped in front of her. Her
tight-fitting uniform was black and bore the gold trim of the Security
Police.

Constricting my throat, I let the words snap out crisply, as I had been
trained.

"General Spicer," I said, "commanding general of the Security Police,
reporting to the Secretary of Defense. As requested."

I waited.

Her eyes, still showing no outward expression, ran over me rapidly.
Then she thumbed a button on the desk and a screen, recessed into the
chromed surface, glowed into life.

Almost immediately, a full-face reproduction of the features of General
Spicer appeared on the screen in color. She checked the image against
my face, her eyes flickering to the tiny scar under my left eye and to
the old blaster burn across my right ear. When the image changed to a
profile view, I turned my head to give her the same angle.

She nodded, pressing the button on her desk which darkened the screen.

She said, "You're early. Your appointment with Secretary Bartlett is--"

"For 1300 hours," I filled in automatically, when she hesitated in one
last routine test. "I was in the building on another matter, however,
and came here after I had finished my other business."

"Yes, of course," she said. "Please take a seat. Senator Chambers is
ahead of you, but his business will not take long."

I fought back the sudden impulse to pivot and stare in the direction
her eyes were indicating. _Senator Carl Chambers._ My briefing on
him had been lengthy. For 60 Earth years, he had headed the un-Earth
Activities Committee. As General Spicer, I was supposed to have a
nodding acquaintance with him, but no more than that. During the
years, our rivalry had become legend. His unanticipated presence in
the waiting room could prove disastrous. Chambers would not be fooled
easily.

Turning slowly, I nodded stiffly and curtly in Chambers' direction and
then selected a chair across the room from him.

The senator's head merged directly into the shoulders of his grossly
rotund body. Small, round eyes stared unblinkingly at me from the red
pudginess of his face. They hesitated on the black swagger stick which
I held loosely in my right hand, moved on, and then returned to it. The
invisible scars, made by the electro-surgical knives in re-designing my
body, began to tense slowly. I shifted the swagger stick in my hand.

Then the redheaded secretary stood up. She said, "Secretary Bartlett
will see you now. Senator."

       *       *       *       *       *

For a fraction of a time, I thought Senator Chambers had not heard her.
His expressionless eyes were still on me. Then, with a grunt, he lifted
himself to his feet and disappeared through the door behind her. A tiny
clicking noise indicated that it locked automatically.

I shifted my gaze and saw that the secretary was looking at me
intently. It was impossible to guess at what might be going on behind
those eyes. The tension began to build inside me again, but I kept my
own eyes as expressionless as hers.

The girl picked up a folded piece of paper out of a receptacle on her
desk and brought it over to me.

She said, "While you're waiting, General, you might like to read the
latest facsimile. Or have you already seen it?"

I shook my head. "I saw the 1100 fac-report, but I missed this one."

She handed it to me and returned to her desk. There was just the
slightest suggestion of a rolling movement in her walk, not at all
unpleasant.

When I looked down at the facsimile sheet, the headline screamed
silently up at me. I swiveled my eyes over at the secretary, but
she was working her recordo-writer, her fingers moving rapidly,
mechanically.

The headline read: ALIEN INVADER DISCOVERED! The story that followed
reported that two Security Police guards had intercepted someone who
looked like and was dressed like an Earthman, trying to enter the
Senate at 1109 hours that morning. A discrepancy had been discovered
during the routine ID card check and the imposter had tried to escape.
The guards had opened fire at close range, scoring two direct hits.

While the account was obviously censored, it intimated that a full
report to be released later by Security Police Headquarters would be
almost unbelievable. It hinted that the hideous mess revealed when the
guards' weapons had ripped through the surprisingly soft body armor of
the impostor positively confirmed the fact that the individual was an
enemy alien.

Before I could read any further, there was a muted tone from the
direction of the desk. The secretary acknowledged the signal, spoke
several words which I couldn't hear, then looked at me.

She said, "You may go in now, General Spicer."

I placed the facsimile sheet on her desk and waited while she activated
the circuit, which would release the catch on her side of the door.

_Who had it been? There had been four of us. Volunteers. We had been
selected, briefed and trained separately. We had been housed separately
during the mental and physical tortures of the surgical and the psych
labs. The ship which had brought us to Earth had released us at
separate points above the Earth capital. Only our ultimate goal was the
same. But now there was one less of us to accomplish that goal! And we
had lost the element of surprise._

The door clicked twice and swung open. I stepped through, just in time
to see the rotund shape of Senator Chambers go out a private exit on
the far side of the room. Both doors closed at almost the same moment
and I stood alone before the Secretary of Defense for the planet Earth.

The secretary sat behind a desk on the far side of the room. He was a
powerful man, in keeping with the importance of the job he filled. But
the huge memory bank which he relied upon and which filled the entire
wall behind his desk seemed to dwarf him.

Without looking up immediately, Secretary Bartlett carefully rewound a
tape he had been referring to and fed it back into the open mouth of
the memory unit.

       *       *       *       *       *

He said, "Spicer, we've been talking about you. Do you have anything
new on this alien incident? Chambers said an impulse cleared the Master
Machine last night, indicating there may have been some sort of ship
overhead."

"No, sir," I lied. "My people are working on it, but we don't have much
more to go on than appeared in the latest fac-report."

"If there was a ship overhead, it was protected by a new type of
anti-identification device. The Master Machine probed for more than six
minutes and registered only a void. Chambers, of course, is always--"

Bartlett didn't finish the sentence. His words trailed off into a
moment of puzzled silence as he turned and looked squarely at me for
the first time.

Something had gone wrong. Something that I had done or hadn't done had
revealed to him that I wasn't General Spicer.

Secretary Bartlett started to rise. "Why, you're not Spicer! You're an
impostor!"

His eyes displayed neither fear nor surprise, but his hand was less
than a time point from the alarm buzzer on the top of his desk when I
touched the tiny stud on the hilt of my useless-looking swagger stick.

For the tick of a pulse, he sat there with his body bathed in the
colored ray, his finger poised above the warning buzzer. Then his body
began to glow. I closed my eyes when the heat and brightness reached
my face. When I opened them, there was nothing left of Bartlett but a
swirl of dust motes.

Stepping behind the desk, I stripped off the thin plasti-mask which had
disguised my features to look like those of General Spicer. My hands
moved almost automatically. Each motion had been rehearsed, timed,
analyzed, and timed again.

I reversed my coat, hiding the gold markings of the Security Police,
and revealing the precious-metal insignia which had been worn by the
Secretary of Defense. The now-useless ID card, which I had obtained
earlier when I destroyed the real General Spicer, was dropped into the
office incendiary tube, along with the mask and the removable steel
cappings of my boots.

By the time I had finished, only the swagger stick remained to connect
me with General Spicer. I carefully telescoped its length, twisting
and turning the artfully designed tubing, until it was identical to
Bartlett's cane of state, leaning against the desk. The real cane I
disposed of by dropping it into the incendiary tube after the other
articles.

I turned the stiff black collar of my coat up, in the same manner
that Bartlett had worn his. The upturned collar hid the tiny metal
electrodes protruding from the base of my neck, under each ear.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I sat down behind the desk, the image reflected up at me from
the chromed top was, feature for feature, that of Defense Secretary
Bartlett. The electro-surgical knives, wielded by experts, had done a
good job. I grimaced. I puffed out my cheeks. I rolled my eyes. And, in
turn, the reflected image grimaced, puffed out its cheeks, and rolled
its eyes. The texture of my skin was that of Bartlett's. Even the pore
structure.

This had been the final big hurdle. The rest was now up to me.

No! More accurately, the rest depended upon routine--a routine
established more than 70 Earth years ago--a routine so inflexible that
it had not been broken for a single day. My mission was to break that
routine.

Destruction of Spicer and Bartlett was important only as a means to an
end. As soon as they were missed, others would fill their places. I
had to destroy _all_ Spicers and _all_ Bartletts. I had to destroy the
residents of Washington, of London, of New York, of Earth!

My mission was to destroy so that we could live. That was what the
technicians in the psych-labs had told me. That was what the physicians
behind the electro-surgical knives had told me. It had been drummed
into me over and over, through every phase of the mental and physical
preparation that I had been put through.

So I sat in Bartlett's office, looking like Bartlett, waiting. I knew
almost to the exact time point when the buzzer on the desk in front of
me would sound. I expected it, but when the strident tone filled the
room, I jumped.

I thumbed the switch on the desk video-com and the features of the
redheaded secretary looked out at me from the recessed screen. I
deepened my voice to mimic Bartlett's.

"Yes, Meta?"

The video-com was a two-way security system and I knew that she could
see me, too. She continued to stare, and I felt the scar tissue
tighten around the electrodes in my neck.

Through some flaw in transmission, for a brief moment, I thought I saw
the twinkle of an expression deep in her eyes. But that was impossible.
Her lips twitched and the transmission flaw, or whatever it might have
been, was corrected. Her eyes were as inscrutable as ever.

She said, "It's 1324, sir. The inspection group will be here in two
minutes. Shall I bring them in?"

I nodded my head to one side slightly, in a manner peculiar to
Bartlett. "Thank you, Meta. Yes, of course. Bring them in as soon as
they arrive."

I switched the video-com off and let my fingers lightly play with the
button on the desk that activated the lock on Bartlett's private door
into the inner corridor. It was a temptation to open the door and
attempt to go the rest of the way on my own. But I wouldn't make it.
Not even disguised as Defense Secretary Bartlett. I had been warned not
to try.

       *       *       *       *       *

My only hope lay in the routine set up by Earth's scientists more
than 70 years ago--the daily inspection of the unit. As a member of
the inspection party, I could pass through the security guards. More
important, as a member of the group, I would arrive at the protective
force sphere at the hub of the Pentagon at the only time and at the
only place the force sphere could be breached.

I waited.

Precisely at the end of Meta's two minutes, the lock buzzed on the door
to the reception room. I touched the control which opened the door and
stood as the group filed into the room. My briefings on each of them
had been exhaustive, but I examined their faces for some sign that one
or more might penetrate my disguise as Bartlett.

The redheaded Meta nodded. She had been with Bartlett as his security
secretary for 70 years. Senator Chambers, as a representative of the
electorate, darted rapid glances around the room as soon as the door
had closed, counting noses. General Whit Marshall, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff of the police systems, nodded with the cold
reserve of the high-ranking military to the higher-ranking civilian.
The fourth member of the group, Chet Meyers, chief Master Machine
technician, was the only one to speak.

The lanky Meyers looked around the room. "Where's General Spicer, sir?
Senator Chambers was telling us you were going to invite him because of
this scare today."

The invisible scars which cobwebbed across my body from the
electro-surgical knives tensed so suddenly that I almost screamed. I
made myself reach for my cane casually. I had come so close!

No, wait--there was the bitter rivalry between Chambers and Spicer.
Chambers was too complete a politician to pass up an opportunity to
discredit General Spicer.

His black pin-prick eyes darted up toward the time unit on the wall.

"There's no time to wait, Meyers," he said eagerly. "Spicer knows the
schedule. We must go without him."

Conscious of the stares of Meta and Meyers, I pushed the button which
opened the door into the inner corridor.

I looked directly at the Master Machine technician. "I asked Spicer to
get a late report on the incident for us. But you know that Chambers is
right--we cannot afford to wait any longer. Perhaps he'll catch up."

We followed the corridor toward the hub of the Pentagon. Senator
Chambers led the way, almost at a trot, as though he were afraid that
Spicer would catch up. General Marshall and Meyers, hard put to keep
up, were strung out behind him, with Meta and me bringing up the rear.

That was the way we went through the check points manned by the
security guards. Twice I caught Meta looking at me. At one of the
check points, I thought she was going to say something. I lifted the
tip of my cane and put my finger near the stud, but she remained silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tension began to mount inside me as we approached the door opening
on the invisible force wall. Through the wall, I could see the squat,
ugly building in the center of the hub of the Pentagon, which was our
destination. I held my cane ready. But even a CT-bomb wouldn't break
through the force field.

As we drew near the final guard point, a scrubwoman who had been
working on the floor of the corridor picked up her bucket and fell in
with our party.

Chambers was already gesturing at the guard to set the combination,
which would open the force wall at precisely 1330. I looked at the time
unit on my wrist and saw that we had twenty seconds to wait. I resisted
the betraying impulse to rub the irritated area around the electrodes
set in my neck.

When I looked up from the time unit, everything was too quiet. Senator
Chambers was no longer dancing around impatiently. He was staring at
the bucket carried by the scrubwoman.

The inside of the bucket was not even damp. And the mop she had been
using was dry. The implication must have hit both Chambers and me at
the same moment. I wanted to shout a warning.

Chambers jumped back against the wall, yelling at the guard, "Shoot
her! Shoot! She is an alien!"

The scrubwoman did the wrong thing. She turned and tried to run, her
legs lifting awkwardly against the pull of the unaccustomed gravity.
But the guard's weapon was already at his shoulder. The low-velocity
missile thudded into the body of the scrubwoman, flipping her up into
the air in a graceless somersault. She landed on the concrete floor
with a second thud, which echoed softly down the long hall. A pool
slowly widened around her body and she lay still.

I looked at my wrist time unit again. It was 1330. The door through the
force wall was open. I went past the huddled heap lying on the floor,
careful not to step in the pool of moisture.

_Too hideous to put into words in a public fac-report! That's what the
facsimile sheet had hinted about the broken body of the other "alien."
Two from four left only two. But the door through the force wall was
open. I had to get through the door and into the building._

Senator Chambers stepped out from behind the guard and blocked the
doorway. His little eyes flashed from one expressionless face to
another as he tried to come to some inner decision. His shoulders
slumped.

"I--I don't like it," he said. "The door is open now. I think perhaps
we had better wait for General Spicer, after all."

But Meta shook her head and pushed past Chambers. She said, "No. You
know the routine as well as we, Senator. We are required to inspect the
unit. Leave the guard on duty here."

       *       *       *       *       *

I took advantage of the indecision of the others and pushed through the
door after her toward the squat, ugly little building that was my goal.

Meta was almost to the door of the building when I heard Chambers yell.

"Stop her, Secretary Bartlett! She's malfunctioning. We've all been
ordered to wait outside for an ID check." I ignored him and he yelled
again. "Guard, open fire on the girl. Don't let her get inside that
door!"

But he was too late. Meta disappeared through the door into the black
building. I stepped inside just as it slammed shut and the first
missile smashed against the door from the guard's weapon.

The building was not large. The Master Machine squatted like a huge,
thick-bodied black spider in the center of the building. A cobweb of
power lines and control cables criss-crossed the floor and fed into the
base of the unit.

A myriad of tiny moving parts, levers and cams and elbowed arms and
gears pulsed and shifted and moved to give the impression that the
Master Machine was breathing, that it was alive. Tiny multicolored
lights twinkled on and off. Giant vacuum tubes hummed and glowed. And
all the while, it munched on endless tapes.

The black monster was the heart of Earth's civilization, and it was the
means of it. As I started toward the machine, a grid at the top turned
slowly and ogled me. Almost immediately, a red tube blinked on, and
the moving parts on one section of the machine plunged into a frenzied
rhythm of action.

I ran forward, breathing heavily under the strain of the unaccustomed
gravity. I had only seconds in which to act. At any moment, Senator
Chambers and the guards would be coming through the door behind me.

I raised the cane and touched the stud.

The finger of lavender light knifed toward the machine, searching for
its heart and memory unit.

The ray fused and melted and burned, cutting deeper and deeper into the
maze of wires and tubes and relays. There was a blinding flash and one
section of the machine ground to a stop. Other sections immediately
increased their tempo of movement.

Behind me the door slammed open, and Senator Chambers and two guards
stumbled into the building.

Chambers yelled, "He's over there in front of the Master Machine. Hurry
up ... and ... shoot! Before it's ... too late! _Shoot!_"

His face almost a cherry red, Chambers danced out of the way. The
guards raised their weapons and sighted.

Then the ray from my cane cut deeply into the very innermost section
of the master unit and the machine died. A dial on the front of the
blackened, twisted mess spun slowly to a stop. There was no more noise
and no more movement.

It was done.

       *       *       *       *       *

As I released the stud on the cane, the weapons of the guards were
pointed directly at my back. Chambers' eyes were like two black
marbles, staring at me, his head strained forward to watch the results
of the missiles.

I took a careful step to the left. And another. And then another. They
didn't move.

The guards' weapons remained trained on the spot where I had been
standing. Senator Chambers continued staring at the place where I had
been.

None of them moved. They remained there, pointing at nothing. The
electrodes at the bases of their necks reflecting the molten glow from
the wrecked Master Machine.

I relaxed. I rubbed the tender skin around the dummy electrodes set in
my neck. It was finally over.

Then a shadow moved against the wall where there should have been no
movement. It lengthened and took on the shapely form of the redheaded
Meta.

Only now her eyes were no longer dead and expressionless. They were
alive with feeling.

I said, "So you are the other one. I should have guessed when you ran
into the building ahead of me. But I was too busy thinking of those
guards and of Chambers."

She nodded. Her lips relaxed into a smile.

_Two from four leaves two! But we had accomplished our mission. And
outside the building, in Washington, London, New York--in every Earth
city--figures on the streets, in office buildings, and at home had
become motionless, poised like mechanical toys with their springs run
down. Housewives, cab drivers, copter pilots, passengers, shoppers,
policemen, government workers had ceased to move, had stopped
functioning with the destruction of the Master Machine._

The redhead said, "It's really over, isn't it? They're stopped." She
looked at the still figures, the dummy electrodes in her neck quivering
in a shiver. "They can't kill any more?"

I said, "It's over."

"They can't destroy or move?"

"Without the Master Machine, they have no power supply--nothing. And
they can't kill or destroy."

She walked over to look at the figures. "What went wrong? What happened
to them?"

I shrugged. "You can't blame them any more than you can blame a boiler
that explodes or a dam that breaks. It was the human race itself that
was responsible for what happened. We became lazy, careless. We built
too many time saving gimmicks to do too many jobs for us."

       *       *       *       *       *

"But the machines were designed to help us," she said. "To make life
better and more pleasant."

"At the beginning," I agreed, "but we didn't know where to stop. We
started with labor-saving devices. We replaced ourselves in factories,
offices, restaurants, stores. Still it wasn't enough. We designed
robots to serve as traffic policemen, to drive cars, and to handle
thinking tasks. Then we designed humanoid robots, mechanical replicas
of man and woman, controlled by the computing sections of the Master
Machine, activated by its power supply, able to move and talk and
think. We used them as servants. We had the means to replace ourselves
completely--everywhere."

"Why did they turn on the human race?" she asked.

I pointed to the smoldering wreck of the Master Machine in the center
of the room. "Perhaps there was a weak circuit, or a tape was garbled,
or a relay didn't close properly. The scientific colony on the Moon
helped some of us to escape. The rest of mankind was destroyed by the
robots--systematically and ruthlessly."

The redhead shivered again and walked over to the door leading from the
building. She stood there, looking up at the thin curve of the Moon
showing in the blue of the afternoon sky.

Finally she said, "Up there, by now, they will know that we have
accomplished our mission. In a few hours, they will be filing out of
the underground caverns and loading onto the giant rockets. They'll be
coming back. But only the very oldest will have been on Earth before.
Like us, thousands of them will be coming to a new world for the first
time. A world of beauty and opportunity--if they want it that way. What
will they decide?"

What _would_ they decide?

I looked down at the redhead. Deep in her eyes, I saw the emotions
which no humanoid robot could ever know. I saw them, and suddenly the
tension eased out of my muscles.

The answer to her question was in her own eyes.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Assassin, by Bascom Jones

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ASSASSIN ***

***** This file should be named 60907.txt or 60907.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/9/0/60907/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
