The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Contact Point, by Jack Sharkey

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Contact Point

Author: Jack Sharkey

Release Date: December 15, 2019 [EBook #60928]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CONTACT POINT ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           the contact point

                            By JACK SHARKEY

                     _Somewhere on Mars there had
                   to be a meeting of the minds...._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Worlds of If Science Fiction, January 1961.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Lieutenant Lloyd spotted the first alien in the ruins of the strange
red Martian city on the second day of exploration. His first impulse
was to call out to the other men--but then, afraid his voice would
startle the creature down at the end of the rubble-strewn street, he
silently unholstered his military service pistol and crept forward
toward the back (he hoped it was the back) of the alien, his breath
rasping behind his faceplate.

He was a mere ten paces short of his goal when loose gravel beneath his
heavy boot betrayed him. Even in the thin Martian atmosphere, the sound
was a sharp one. The creature spun about, one appendage gripping the
haft of a slim crystal tube. He froze there, watching Lloyd with odd
oval-shaped eyes, yellow-orange in color. Lloyd's thumb slid back the
safety catch on his automatic, slowly, carefully.

Then the creature lowered the tube and its wide lipless mouth curled
in what had to be a grin. "Ookl okkl?" it said distinctly.

Lloyd looked into the alien eyes and was pleased to see the
intelligence within their depths. He reholstered his pistol and held
out his hand. "Lieutenant Lloyd of the _Sherlock II_," he said.

The alien hesitated, then inserted the four flaccid stalk-things at the
end of its "arm" into Lloyd's hand. They shook these clasped appendages
solemnly, then withdrew their own with relief.

"Boy, am I glad you Martians are friendly!" Lloyd laughed. "When I
saw you up the street, I envisioned a full-scale guerrilla attack
and--Damn, you're not getting a word of this, are you?"

In reply, the creature pointed to its thoracic region and said, "Ulkay
Blet." It pointed to Lloyd again and enunciated carefully, "Lieutenant
Lloyd."

"Glad to know you, Ulkay. Or do I call you by both names? Or just
Mister Blet?"

"Ulkay," the alien said. "Blet," he added. "Ulkay Blet," he clarified,
with an almost Earthlike shrug.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was strictly a take-your-pick name, Lloyd saw. He took his pick.
"Ulkay, tell me, are you the last of your race, or are there others of
your kind still left alive on Mars?"

Ulkay just stared, friendly but lost.

Lloyd tried again. "I--" he pointed to himself--"am here with more like
me--" he pointed to himself, held up one finger to Ulkay, then pointed
in a long sweep behind himself toward the end of the street and held
up four fingers. His only success was an envious look from Ulkay at
Lloyd's extra finger.

"Hoo boy!" said Lloyd, smacking his brow in chagrin. "This is a rough
one. Look, Ulkay, you hold on and don't be scared." He laid a hand
upon Ulkay's shoulder for assurance, then turned his head and shouted,
"_Here! This way, men!_"

The sound of heavy booted feet began, far up the cluttered street.
Lloyd felt Ulkay grow tense. "It's all right," he said slowly,
soothingly, as one talks to a horse or dog, knowing the tone conveys
what the words cannot. Ulkay seemed to sense the assurance and relaxed
a little.

In another minute, Kroner, Harrison, Tandy and Craig were beside their
commanding officer, gaping with unconcealed glee at the slightly under
five-foot form of Ulkay, who stared right back, steadily if not boldly.

"Our first contact with a Martian!" Kroner exulted, his voice metallic
through the oxygen helmet.

"Does he talk?" Harrison wanted to know immediately.

"Where are his friends?" asked Tandy, frowning.

Craig, unable to think of a question, was silent. But it was to Craig
that Lloyd addressed his first statement. "He speaks a language. His
name is Ulkay Blet. Think you can rig a written or oral Rosetta Stone
for us, Craig?"

Craig shuffled his feet bashfully. "I can try."

"Is he _alone_, though?" said Tandy, irked that his question had gone
unanswered. "His buddies might be around here waiting to pick us off.
This is their city, after all, and we're trespassers."

Lloyd shook his head dubiously. "I think you're wrong, Tandy. Ulkay's
got some sort of weapon with him and he put it away without trying to
use it. If there are others, they're probably intelligent and friendly,
too."

"Unless I'm mistaken," Kroner remarked dryly, "we're about to put your
statement to the test."

"What--?" said Lloyd, and looked where Kroner was now facing.

Seven creatures like Ulkay were on their way toward the group, each
bearing one of those long crystal rods. At first glance, they all
looked alike to Lloyd. Then, as they drew nearer, he saw that they were
as different from one another as he from his own men.

"Ulkay," he said softly, "would you tell _your_ friends that we're
_their_ friends? They look kind of trigger-happy and...."

Ulkay, catching Lloyd's meaning from the way he looked toward the
approaching squad, turned and babbled something at them. They
hesitated. Then all put their crystal rods into short scabbards hanging
from their belts.

       *       *       *       *       *

Behind him, Lloyd heard Tandy's sigh of relief. He turned to Craig.
"You and Ulkay see if you can set up something to bridge the language
barrier, while Kroner and I go back to the ship and radio the news back
to Earth."

"Okay," said Craig. He was the expedition's linguist, but extremely
shy, considering he was the liaison man with any aliens they
encountered. "I'll start them with numbers; that's usually a good
kicking-off place, and then I can work into body parts, relationships,
and--"

"Whoa," said Lloyd. Craig could be talkative on his professional
topics. "I don't want the details, just some results. Kroner and I
should be back in about an hour. I'll talk with Ulkay then, if you can
show me how to reach him."

He and Kroner strode off to their ship, set onto the cold red sands a
mile away.

It would take nearly three minutes for a message to reach Earth,
and another three, at least, before the reply came back, so Lloyd,
dispensing with formality, sent, "This is Lieutenant Lloyd of the
_Sherlock II_. We have landed successfully on Mars, discovered a
decaying Martian city, and eight inhabitants, so far. If you read me,
set up a recorder and signal me when you are ready to tape my report."

He sat back in the chair with a sigh. "There, that cuts out a lot of
fuss," he remarked to Kroner.

"And the less time spent away from our men, the better."

"Yes," said Lloyd. "How does this thing--well, how does it _feel_ to
you?"

"Too easy," said Kroner without hesitation. "Of course, there's no
reason why it should feel at all _hard_, is there?"

"No," Lloyd admitted reluctantly. "No reason at all why we shouldn't
establish contact with these Martians, find them friendly, get our
information about their city, way of life, and so on, and go back
safely to Earth and home. But--"

"Yeah," said Kroner. "'_But!_'"

"They _act_ friendly."

"Maybe that's all it is, an act. But if they're not going to be chums,
why go to all this trouble? You know what I mean, sir?"

Lloyd leaned back in the padded chair and scratched his short-cropped
head. "Beats me. And yet I can't help feeling uncomfortable
about--There's the blinker. Earth's ready to record." He dropped the
conversation and set himself to telling Earth of developments so far.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Is it some sort of taboo or what?" Lloyd demanded irritably of Craig.
It was three hours since he and Kroner had returned from the ship, and
communication with Ulkay and his bunch had been established--but with
one annoying and unexpected feature.

"I can't seem to find out, sir," Craig said miserably. "He's responsive
on almost every other topic, but when I ask him about the city here, he
says he can't tell me. I've asked him why, but his answer escapes me."

"When he says he 'can't' tell you, does he mean he is physically unable
to, or forbidden to?"

"I'm not even sure if it's '_can't_.' It might just be '_won't_.' But I
_am_ sure it's a negative of some sort. They shake their heads and nod
same as we do for yes and no."

"Let's see that list," Lloyd said, his voice tired.

Craig held it out, but Kroner took it. "You've looked at it ten times
in the past hour, sir," he apologized. "Let me have a whack at it."

Lloyd started to argue the point, then gave it up. "Okay, Sergeant. See
what you can make of it. If you can ask a clear question of Ulkay and
Company with those choice bits of language, I'll put in your name for a
decoration."

Kroner scanned the list, noting with fading hope the vocabulary he had
to work with. "Wish we had more verbs!" he said.

"They're the hardest, always," said Craig. "Active ones are easy
enough, though the tenses and irregularities can be tough, but the
non-active--the intransitive--can't be demonstrated the way actions and
things can."

"Well, we've got _Mars_, and _city_, and--that's a good one--_men_.
That's them?"

Craig nodded.

"Hey, weren't there _eight_ of those guys a while back? We're two
short!"

"What?" said Lloyd, looking over at the aliens. "You're right, Kroner!
Ulkay's gone, and--let me see--that heavy-set one with the big
shoulder-span. Where the hell--?"

Tandy and Harrison came up at that moment.

"Sir," Tandy looked disgusted, "we can't find out a thing from the
rubble. No heavy radiation present, so it kind of discounts an atomic
war, although--"

"Never mind the surmises for now," said Lloyd. "Tell me just what you
know for sure."

One side of Tandy's mouth twisted. "Yes, sir. Very little of the rubble
seems to be due to any _heavy_ damage. I mean, no buildings have
collapsed or anything like that. It's just as though time had crumbled
off a brick hole here and there, and nobody bothered sweeping the
street."

"The city gates were knocked down," Lloyd protested.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tandy shook his head. "Not knocked down, sir--fallen. It's my opinion
this place is just obsolete, a sort of last-year's model that needs a
new coat of paint and an engine overhaul. Except for all the dust, sand
and crumbled material, it's in pretty good shape."

"You mean it's unfashionable but serviceable?" said Kroner. "Like a
spring-driven phonograph?"

"That's about it, Sergeant," Tandy nodded. "Anything else, you're going
to have to ask the Martians themselves."

"Which brings me back to my earlier apprehension," said Kroner. "I
don't like the idea of two of those guys being missing. Hold on--there
they come! And with a small cannon, unless I miss my guess!"

The Earthmen were all on their feet now, facing the pair of aliens who
lugged a heavy contraption with a tubular nozzle on the front of it up
the street toward the waiting group.

"It can't be a cannon," said Lloyd, puzzled. "Why would they bother,
when hand-weapons would do?"

By that time, Ulkay and his crony had the gadget set down on a tripod
base and were turning dials on its side. The Earthmen, every one of
them, loosened pistols in their holsters, but only Tandy actually
brought his out.

Then they jumped as a metallic voice came out through the gadget's
nozzle. "Men!" said the voice. "Do not possess fear."

"A miracle!" gasped Craig. "It's a translating machine!" He rushed
forward to view this thing, his face glowing with delight.

Lloyd, recovering from his start, saw that Ulkay was speaking into a
tube at the side of the machine, and realized that his translated voice
had been the one heard.

"Ulkay," he said, going toward the machine, "does this work both ways?"

Ulkay nodded and pointed to the nozzle on the front. "This," said his
voice from the nozzle, "picks up as well as recepts."

"_Receives_," said Craig automatically.

"--as receives," said the nozzle automatically. "There will exist some
few ungrammatics but it will mostly make sensible."

"Man, this simplifies everything!" Lloyd exclaimed. "Ulkay, do you mind
if we ask you some questions?"

Ulkay, via the nozzle, replied with dignity, "You and your Craig have
questioned with relentless of us. Can we be allowed the similar luck?"

"I beg your pardon," Lloyd said sincerely. "Go ahead and ask."

"These transparents you wear upon your faces, why?" asked the nozzle,
in a mechanical monotone.

"The air." Lloyd gestured with a sweep of his arm. "It is too thin to
support our kind of life without these masks."

"Strange," said the nozzle. "And where are your women?"

"We did not bring them with us," said Lloyd. "We made this trip
strictly to find you."

Ulkay stared at Lloyd a long moment. Then the nozzle asked, "What trip?"

"To your city," said Lloyd. "To your planet."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ulkay frowned, then fiddled a moment with a dial on the side of the
machine. The nozzle spoke slowly this time. "Repeat your response. It
was not a sensible."

"We came here. To Mars. To find you." Lloyd said it carefully and
distinctly, feeling very uneasy.

"But this is Earth," said the nozzle loudly.

"To _you_ it is Earth," said Lloyd, with a tolerant smile. "I think
we're having a semantic problem, Ulkay. Each planet's self-name would
translate as 'Earth.' This machine cannot make the proper distinction."

"No, no, no!" came the nozzle's voice. "You say your planet is called
'Earth'. Why do you now call it 'Mars'?"

"We don't," said Lloyd, bewildered. "We call _this_ planet Mars. _Our_
planet is called Earth--"

"Sir!" Kroner grasped his arm tightly. "Wait a minute! I think I get
it!... Ulkay! Is this _your_ planet?"

"No," said the nozzle. "Is it not _yours_?"

"Numbers!" said Craig. "Ask him by the _number_ of the planet from the
sun."

"We are from Earth, the third planet from the sun," said Lloyd, holding
up three fingers for emphasis. "Where are you from?"

"We are from Earth," said the nozzle, "the second planet from the sun."
Ulkay held up two digits.

"Venusians?" Tandy squawked, while Harrison doubled up in a fit of
laughter as the idea sank in. In another moment, both groups--Ulkay's
and Lloyd's--had joined him in a tension-breaking paroxysm of mirth.

"Where are _you_ parked?" asked Kroner, the first to recover some
semblance of control.

Ulkay, still chuckling, pointed in the opposite direction to that in
which the _Sherlock II_ was standing. "Outside the west gate of the
city," said the nozzle. "Where are you?"

"Outside the east gate. We thought you were Martians--people of this,
the fourth planet."

"And we in turn thought you were Martians," said Ulkay, through the
nozzle. There was more laughter in both groups.

"For Pete's sake!" muttered Lloyd. "For Pete's sake! Look, Ulkay, why
don't both our groups get some rest and we'll make our inspection tour
of the city tomorrow, the two groups together?"

Ulkay, after a babble of discussion with his men, was in agreement with
this plan, and they and the Earthmen shared a large room within one of
the old abandoned buildings.

"Will your air supply not run out?" Ulkay queried.

"Not on these," Lloyd explained. "They're not tank masks; they're
compression masks. A hydraulic system inside the suit keeps a
compressor running in this gadget on our backs, as long as we're
moving about. Martian air is thin but non-poisonous."

"But if you sleep?"

"The air runs low, which makes us fidget, which pumps more air through
the compressors," Lloyd explained.

Ulkay expressed admiration at the cleverness of Earth scientists, and
then joined his men in slumber. The Earthmen, tired and happy, fell
soundly asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was still dark, the chill purple dark of Mars at night, when Lloyd
awakened abruptly. His body was tense and his mind keenly alert.
Something was wrong. He felt it, but couldn't place the source of his
uneasiness.

He sat up and looked about him. Starlight, coming in bright pinpoints
through a high arched window, glinted reassuringly off the helmets of
his men, lying in pools of deep shadow all about him. He looked for
Ulkay and his group, and saw their smaller silhouettes huddled on the
stone flooring. Feeling a little better, he lay down once more and
tried to fall back to sleep. But there was a gnawing, nagging something
in his mind that would not allow sleep to come.

"What's bothering me?" he asked himself. "Is it something about Ulkay
and his bunch? The only really odd thing about them is that they
don't wear any breathing equipment in this thin air, right? And didn't
Ulkay explain that the atmosphere on Venus is just as thin? It didn't
jibe with Harrison's opinion about atmospheres, but Harrison hasn't
actually _been_ to Venus, after all, and the cloudiness still keeps its
atmosphere a secret from Earth's spectroscopes, right?"

His mind assured him that this was right and he felt a little better,
but not much.

"So what's eating me? A hunch? Intuition? Or just alien-planet nerves?"
he went on. "Why should I wake up in the middle of the night feeling
scared? Aren't my men all present and accounted for? Aren't they
sleeping quietly, just as they should be?"

Feeling annoyed with his own nebulous fears, Lloyd sat up again and
looked over the groups, Ulkay's and his own. As he watched, Kroner
grunted in his sleep and rolled over. Tandy's helmet emitted gentle
snoring noises. Harrison and Craig lay more quietly, but their chests
could be seen, even in that dim light, rising and falling normally.
Lloyd excoriated his imagination for worrying him--it had fed him a
quick suggestion that perhaps his companions' masks had been slit,
suffocating them silently to death.

"I _must_ trust Ulkay; it's necessary," said Lloyd to himself. "I
can't let these groundless fears spoil future relations between Earth
and Venus. The Venusians are friendly and intelligent, and not really
odd-looking, once you discount the number of digits on their hands and
a few unearthly color schemes on their torsos. So what am I scared of?"

Cold touched his spine, shocking him into alertness, as he isolated his
fear. He rolled over and shook Kroner awake with barbaric callousness.

"Huh? Wha?" said Kroner, sitting up.

"Sergeant," said Lloyd, trying to confide his fear to the other man,
"when we got here, we were nervous about making contact with aliens,
right?"

"Yeah," Kroner said sleepily. "But it turned out okay, sir, didn't it?"
He shook his groggy head. "I mean, Ulkay and his bunch are okay, aren't
they?"

"Yeah," said Lloyd shakily. "_They_ are fine--but, Kroner, they're not
the right aliens!"

It took Kroner a moment to get it. When he did, he came awake with a
jolt. "And we haven't even posted a guard!"

Lloyd, his worries abetted by Kroner's response, got to his feet,
shouting, "_Mayday! Mayday!_"

His men--and Ulkay's a few seconds later--were up, everybody snapping
on portable torches and setting the chamber alive with flashing lights.

"Ulkay!" Lloyd said, rushing to the Venusian. "If _you're_ not the
Martians, and _we're_ not the Martians, then there is still a chance
that someone _else_ is the Martians!"

Ulkay yelled something to his men, and Lloyd watched with horror as
each Venusian fumbled at an empty scabbard upon his belt. Lloyd's hand
shot to his holster and found there just what his men were finding in
their own holsters: nothing.

"Do you think we've discovered the Martians?" said Kroner, his voice
hoarse with fright.

Then the glaring overhead lights of the room came on, revealing the
surrounding phalanx of hard-eyed, armed creatures.

"Unless I'm mistaken," Lloyd said, "the Martians have discovered us."

An instant later, there was nothing in the center of the alien room
but half-molten air compressors and the charred, smoking remains of a
funny-looking little nozzle, still echoing a bilingual chorus of agony.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Contact Point, by Jack Sharkey

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CONTACT POINT ***

***** This file should be named 60928.txt or 60928.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/9/2/60928/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
