The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Fastest Gun Dead, by Julian F. Grow

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Fastest Gun Dead

Author: Julian F. Grow

Release Date: December 24, 2019 [EBook #61013]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FASTEST GUN DEAD ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         The Fastest Gun Dead

                           BY JULIAN F. GROW

                     The skeleton had the fastest
                      draw west of the Pecos. Too
                     bad he was such a lousy shot.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Worlds of If Science Fiction, March 1961.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


He was a big man, broad of shoulder, slim of hip. His Stetson was
crimped Texas-style, over slate-gray eyes that impassively had seen
much good and more evil in their twenty-six years.

He stood in the saloon door with the dust of the streets of Dos
Cervezas Pequenas still swirling about scuffed, range-rider's chaps.
His left hand held open the weatherbeaten swinging door. The right
hovered over the worn peachwood butt of the Colt holstered on his right
thigh.

The slate-gray eyes, emotionless, swept the crowd bellied up to the
bar, and stopped at one man. When he spoke it was flat, but with the
ring of tempered steel, and every man but that one drew back out of
range. "I want you, Dirty Jake," the big man said. "Now."

Dirty Jake shot him into doll rags, naturally.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dirty Jake Niedelmeier was, you might say, the most feared ribbon clerk
in the Territory. Easily the most.

I remember him from the early days, from the first day he came to town,
in fact. I remember because he got off the stage just as I was leaning
out the window nailing up my brand-new shingle, and my office was and
still is upstairs next to the stage depot. I was down on the boardwalk
admiring it, all shiny gold leaf on black like the correspondence
school promised:

                          Hiram Pertwee, M.D.

His voice broke in on me, all squeaky. "Beg your pardon," he said,
"where's the YMCA?"

Well, that isn't the usual sort of question for here. I turned around.
There he was, a scrawny little runt about knee-high to short, wearing a
panama hat, a wrinkled linen duster and Congress gaiters.

He wasn't especially dirty then, of course, only about average for a
stage passenger. He kind of begrudged his face, with little squint
eyes and a long thin nose, a mustache like a hank of Spanish moss and
just about chin enough to bother shaving. Under his duster he wore a
clawhammer coat, the only alpaca one I ever saw, and I never from that
day out saw him wear any other. He stood there looking like he'd never
been anyplace he really cottoned to, but this might just be the worst.

I was just a young squirt then and not above funning a dude. I told him
the YMCA was around the corner, two doors down and up the back stairs
at the Owl Hoot Palace. He nodded and went the way I told him.

That was, and still is, Kate's Four Bit Crib. The girls there wear
candy-striped stockings and skirts halfway to the knee, and their
shirtwaists are open at the neck. Dirty Jake didn't speak to me for
three years.

He wasn't Dirty Jake then, though, just Jacob Niedelmeier, fresh from
selling ribbons and yard goods in Perth Amboy, New Jersey and hot to
find a fortune in the hills. He'd been a failure all his natural life.
This was a new beginning, for a man 34 who was already at the bitter
end and looking for the path back. Gold was the way, he figured. He was
going to get it.

But he didn't. He was back flat broke and starving in four months.

He spent the next seventeen years behind the notions counter at
Martin's Mercantile, selling ribbon and yard goods and growing old two
years at a time. I think it tainted his mind.

Leastways, from the time I got to know him, some fourteen years gone,
he's been what you might say, a queer actor. At first, when the store
closed at sundown he'd take off for the near hills with a pick and a
sack, still seeking for color somebody might have missed. After a while
he didn't bother with the gear. He just moseyed around all that rock
mostly, I suppose, to be away from people.

Truth to tell, people were beginning to avoid him anyway. He was
getting kind of gamy over the years, and cantankerous generally.

       *       *       *       *       *

Maybe it's kind of funny we got more or less friendly but doctors and
ribbon clerks aren't so all-fired far apart. They both have to do with
people and their ways, and like to get shut of both now and then. Every
couple of months I'd go along with him up in the hills, to get the sick
smell out of my nose. Night air and a night sky can be pretty fine if
you've been looking at tongues and such long enough.

Going out like that, we didn't say much. I preferred it that way since
Jake Niedelmeier was a boob.

A smart man can get on tolerably well with an idiot if both just have
sense enough to keep their mouths shut. One time he didn't was when he
brought along a bottle of rye. He got started and was going on to beat
the band, yapping about how life was a cheat and someday everybody'd
respect Jacob Niedelmeier, until finally I lost patience and told him
that while I treasured our association beyond pearls I'd chuck him off
a cliff if he didn't shut the hell up. I was nice about it, and after
that it was like I said, tolerable.

Well, sir, about two years ago he came into my office while I was
darning up some fool borax miner that'd got himself kicked square in
the bottle on his hip. Jake stood in the corner picking his teeth while
I finished. After the borax miner limped out he spoke up.

"Comin'?" That was all the invitation he ever gave.

"I guess," I said. I sloshed the suture needle in a basin, gave it a
couple of swipes on the hone stone and threw it in my satchel. That
miner had a tough rind.

Jake went out first. I closed the door behind us, not locking it,
of course, because our night marshal was kind of my relief surgeon
whenever I was on calls. He was a Secesh hospital orderly during the
Rebellion. He was better with a saw than with sewing, but he could tie
up most wounds well enough to do till I got back.

Jake and I set out south up the mountain trail, but pretty soon it hit
me he was heading someplace considerable more directly than we usually
did.

Sure enough, he took off at an angle from the trail after a bit. We
struck up into some fairly woolly country. He wasn't following any
sign I could see, at least not by moonlight, but he kept going faster
until I was plumb out of wind.

We were in the hills overlooking Crater Lake when we came to kind of an
amphitheater in the rocks, some twenty feet across. He stopped at the
edge of it and stood staring in, silent and breathing catchy.

Me, I just chased my own breath for a while, then looked too and
saw what he was aiming at. Right in the middle, shining pale in the
moonshine like nothing else does, was a pile of old, old bones. Jake, I
saw, had seen it before. It was scaring him yet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Old bones, sir, are still bones. I've seen and set my fill. But after I
got a good look at these they scared me too.

There were four skeletons altogether, all nicely preserved, and only
three of them were men. Indians, I mean. You could tell that from the
shreds of buckskin. Two of them still had weapons near their right
hands: one a stone knife, the other a lance. And the top of each of the
three skulls had been shot clean away.

At least, half of the top had, and the same half on all three. Almost
the entire os frontale and ossa parietalia on the left side was gone
on each one. I hunkered down to see closer, while Jake stood back and
shook.

I struck a sulphur match and saw something else about those three
redskin skulls. The edges where the bone was gone weren't fractured
clean like a bullet or a club would do. They were charred.

The three were sprawled around the fourth skeleton and that was the
one gave me the vapors. It was more or less man-shaped. But it wasn't
a man, that I know. I don't believe I care to find out what it was.
Instead of ribs there was a cylinder of thin bone, and it had only one
bone in the lower leg. What there was for a pelvis I've never seen
the like, and the skull was straight out of a Dore Bible. There was a
hatchet buried in that skull.

The bones of the right arm were good and hefty, and it had two elbows.
The left arm was about half the size--not crippled, but smaller scale.
Like it was good for delicate work and not much else.

About ten inches from the widespread six fingers of its right hand
was what you knew right off was a weapon even if it did look like an
umbrella handle.

I was just reaching down to touch it when that fool Jake made his move.

He'd been standing behind me, closer I bet than he'd ever got before,
staring down at that fourth skeleton and making odd noises. I tell
you, it was something for a medical man to see. Suddenly he grunted
like he was going to be sick. He snatched up a femur from one of the
Indians and swung it up to smash that fourth skeleton to smithereens.

Well, sir, quicker than the eye could see the umbrella handle smacked
itself into the palm of that bony hand, sending fingers flying in six
directions. It hung there in the air against what was left, trained
dead on Jake's head, and it hummed.

The femur dropped from Jake's right hand like he'd been shot. He
hadn't, though, because he was still wearing his skull and by that time
running. Soon as he did, the umbrella handle flopped over and just lay
there, the hum dying away.

When it stopped the place was pretty quiet, because Jake was off in
the rocks and I was going over some things I wanted to say to him
immediately I was able to talk again. That fourth skeleton had the
fastest draw I'd ever seen.

Jake stuck his head up from behind a boulder. "Doc," he said, "why
didn't he shoot?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The question wasn't as all-fired pip-witted as Jake was capable of. It
took me upwards of three weeks to work out why a weapon that could
draw and aim itself didn't shoot too.

I'd heard a little clink when the weapon flew into the skeleton's hand.
It came from a metal disk that lay in its palm, toward the heel of the
hand.

The disk was thin and only about as big as a two-cent piece. A mate to
it was set in the butt of the umbrella handle, convex where the other
was concave.

Going at it kind of gingerly, I slid the disk in my vest behind my
watch and put the umbrella handle in my right coat pocket.

It was a key-wind repeater with a gold hunting case, that watch, and
I worried about it every step down the mountain. I walked a good four
hundred yards behind Jake all the way back into town, just to be on the
safe side. We didn't linger, either. We wanted lights.

By the time I got the two objects locked in my rolltop my heartbeat in
anybody else would have had me telling the sexton to start his hole. I
prescribed bed for me, told Jake, who hadn't hardly even drawn breath
the whole time, to go to hell and retired.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next day a squabble came up over some borax rights upcountry. I didn't
get to open that rolltop for a time. Then one early morning coming back
in the buggy from a house-call in Pockmark, forty-odd miles north, I
got to worrying again at the umbrella handle and those dead Indians.

Seems like four, five times a week some chunkhead hunkers down hard
with his spurs on. When I got to the office that night there was one
waiting--a bad one, Spanish rowels--and Jake was sprawled in my chair,
picking his teeth with my spare scalpel. I patched up the chunkhead,
took the scalpel from Jake and rinsed it off and watched him suck his
teeth for a while. It began to look like he was going to be stubborn.
So finally I said: "Say, Jake."

He grunted. "Jake," I said, "I think I've got that dingus figured." He
snuck a glance over at the desk so I knew he knew what I meant, but he
was busy pretending that wasn't what he came to talk about.

"I think it's a gun that can read minds like a gypsy," I said. Jake
still looked bored, so I took the umbrella handle out of the rolltop
and waved it at him. He dove off the chair and started rolling for the
door.

"You damn fool," I said, "it won't go off." I was reasonably certain
it wouldn't, but I laid it back down by the disk gently anyhow and sat
in the chair. I've only got the one chair, on the theory that anybody
who isn't bad enough to lie on the table is well enough to stand. Jake
edged over and stood like a short-legged bird on a bobwire fence. "It
kin whut?" he said.

"It can read minds," I said. "You were going to bash those bones. The
gun knew it and trained square on your head. You remember?"

He remembered. "And those Indians," I went on. "You remember them? The
left side of the head on each of them was blown off."

I hauled down a roller chart of the human skeleton, first time I'd done
that since I don't know when.

"This up here is the brain," I said. "We don't know a hell of a lot
about it, but we do know it's like a whole roomful of telegraphers,
sending messages to different parts of the body along the nerves.
They're like the wires. This left hemisphere--right here--sends to the
right side of the body. Don't fret about why, the nerves twist going
into the spinal cord.

"Okay. We know, too, that the part of the brain that sends to the arm
is right here, in the parietal lobe. Right under the chunk of skull
that was shot off on those three Indians."

"Shaw," Jake said, perching on the table. The old billy-goat was
beginning to get impressed, even if he didn't have any notion of what I
was talking about.

       *       *       *       *       *

I didn't have exactly much notion either, but I kept on. "The brain
works by a kind of electricity, same kind as in the telegraph batteries
at the depot. This gun," I tapped the umbrella handle and Jake started
off again, but caught himself, "has some sort of detector, a galvanic
thermometer that senses electrical messages to the nerves."

From here on in it was pure dark and wild hazard. "Obviously," I said,
"whenever one of those signals goes from this cerebral motor area here
in the left hemisphere down to make the weapon hand move, it must be a
special signal this gun was built to catch. Just like a lock is made
for one particular key.

"And near as I can figure, the gun has to be able to tell when that
move coming up is going to be dangerous to the man holding it. Stands
to reason if it can tell when a brain's signalling a hand, it can tell
too if that brain is killing-mad. Some people can do that, and most
dogs.

"So, if it senses murderous intent and a message to the weapon hand to
move, it moves too, and faster.

"It homes on this disk like a magnet right into the hand of the gent
that owns it, and aims itself plumb at the place the signal is coming
from." I tapped the chart. "Right here."

I poked the gunk out of a corncob, packed it and lit up before going
on. Jake stared at the umbrella handle like a stuffed owl.

"Now, that fourth skeleton we saw sure as hell isn't human. He isn't
from anywhere on this green earth, or I miss my guess. Might even have
something to do with Crater Lake there, years ago. But we aren't likely
to find out.

"But we do know that he fought three Indians that probably jumped him
all at once. And he killed every one of them with this gun before he
fell."

That brought Jake up short.

The Territory is kind of violent generally, and anybody or anything
good along that line would be bound to have the sober respect of a
ninny like Jake.

I dug up an old glove, and used spirit gum to stick in its palm the
little disk from the skeleton's hand. I pulled the glove on my right
hand, and stood up with my hand about a foot over the umbrella handle.

"Okay," I said, "kill me."

       *       *       *       *       *

He was so orry-eyed by then he damn near did it just to be obliging.
But then the recollection of the night on the mountain, and the three
Indians with their heads shot off, sifted through and he shied off.
"Hell no," he hollered, "I seen that thing go before! I ain't about to
get my head blowed to bits!" And he went on.

Well, it took me the best of two hours. I showed him the two studs on
the underside that most likely were a safety device. I explained how
probably the gun wouldn't go off unless somebody was holding it with
a finger between those studs, which was why it didn't shoot when it
went into the skeleton's hand that night. I finally got him by telling
him if I was right, we'd wire the fourth skeleton together, take it
back East and earn a mint of money on the vaudeville stage showing the
fastest cadaver in the West.

"Mr. Bones: Faster than Billy the Kid and Twice as Dead," I said we'd
bill it. Jake, he thought that was a lovely idea, and decided to go
along.

Fourteen times that eternal jackass raised his right arm at me, while
I held my own gloved right hand over the weapon. But he didn't have
any real heart for it, and fourteen times the gun just lay there. Then
I got a mite impatient, and kicked him in the kneecap. That fifteenth
time he was truly trying.

Skinny as he was he'd have driven me clear through the floor, except
that umbrella handle jumped into my glove and aimed dead at his
forehead, snarling like a cougar. More correctly, the left side of his
forehead. If I hadn't braced my index finger out stiff, that fifteenth
time would've had him a dead man.

Jake froze like a statue and hung in the air staring at the gun,
snarling away in my hand. Finally I pulled the glove off with the gun
still stuck to it, and flung it on the desk.

Then Jake gave me the sixteenth, and by the time I got up again he was
gone and the gun and the glove with him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning the borax squabble blew up again. What with miners getting
stomped I didn't get to bed for a week, much less have a chance to find
out where Jake and that damned weapon had lit out for. By the time
I did, it was too late. Jacob Niedelmeier, the ribbon clerk, after
seventeen years was on his way to glory as the legendary Dirty Jake.

I got the start of the story from a drifter, name of Hubert Comus. He'd
got into kind of a heated discussion in a saloon south a ways that
ended with him and this other man going for their hardware. Hubert
got his Merwin & Bray .42 out and, being a fool, tried fanning it. Of
course it jammed and he laid the heel of his hand open clear to the
bone.

Twasn't the hand bothering Hubert, though. Like most, the other man
missed him clean, but when the barkeep threw them both out Hubert lit
sitting on the boardwalk and took a six-inch splinter clear through his
corduroys.

While I was working on him he told me about Jake.

A man, it seems, had turned up in a little settlement called Blister,
about two days down the line. Nobody noticed him come in, except that
he was wearing one glove, a shiny clawhammer coat and Congress gaiters.
The general run in the mining camps doesn't wear Congress gaiters.

He got noticed, though, when he showed up in a barroom wearing a
pearl-gray derby with an ostrich plume in the band, and carrying a
rolled-up umbrella under his arm. The little devil had stuck the shaft
of a regular umbrella in the muzzle of the skeleton's weapon.

It turned out he'd bought the derby that the storekeeper there had
planned to be buried in. Where the ostrich plume came from I never did
find out.

"He come right in the swingin' door an' stood there," Hubert said over
his shoulder, "lookin' at the crowd. Purty quick they was all lookin'
right back, I kin tell you. That feather fetched 'em up sharp. Take
it easy back there, will you, Doc? Then Homer Cavanaugh, the one they
called Ham Head, he bust out laughing. He laughed so hard he bent over
double, and the rest of the boys was just beginnin' t'laugh too when
the little feller picked up a spitoon and dumped it down Ham Head's
neck.

"The boys got mighty quiet then. Hey, easy, Doc, will you? Ham Head
straightened up and his face went from red as flannels to white, just
like that. He stood glarin' at the little feller for a couple of ticks,
openin' and closin his fists, and then that big right hand went for the
Smith & Wesson in his belt.

"Well, it was a double-action pistol and had a couple notches in the
grip, but Ham Head never cleared it. I never even seen the little
feller draw, but there was Ham Head fallin' with half his noggin shot
away. Gently, will you, Doc, gently!

"The little feller stood leaning on his umbrella, lookin' down at him.
'What was that man's name?' he says. 'Ham Head Cavanaugh,' somebody
says back. 'Ham Head Cavanaugh,' the little feller says, 'he's the
first.' Then he shoves the umbreller back under his arm and goes out.
We never saw him again.

"Some say it was a bootleg pistol he used, or a derringer in his
sleeve. And some say he had a pardner with a rifle in the street, but
there wasn't nobody there. I was standin' as close to him as I am to
you, Doc, and I swear--it--was--that--um--breller--OW!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ham Head Cavanaugh was the first. I had kind of a personal interest in
Jake and his weapon, so I kept track. There was Curly Sam Thompson, Big
John Ballentine, Redmeat Carson, Uriah Singletree and twelve others
known of, all dead within eighteen months. Any man Jake could hoorah
into a fight. With never a chance to get his right hand on iron before
his head gave the signal and got blown off. He took them all on. And he
never lost--because he couldn't.

Jake was king-o'-the-hill now, all right. He had the success he yearned
for.

Yet when he came back to see me last April it wasn't to brag. He was
in trouble. I looked up from a customer, a damn fool that'd sat on a
gila monster, and there he was, sneaking in the door bare-headed like a
whipped hound, not the cock of the walk in the whole Territory. He slid
into the back room like a shadow, and the man I was working on never
even knew he'd come.

When I went in afterward the lamp was out, the shade was down and he
was in a corner, nervous as a jackrabbit an eagle just dropped in a
wolf den. "Buried my derby under a pile of rock up in the mountains,"
he whispered. "Look," and he held out his glove.

It was plumb worn out. The little metal disc was hanging on by a
strand of spirit gum, and the fabric of the palm was in shreds.

I looked at him for a minute without saying anything. He was still
wearing the clawhammer coat, over B.V.D. tops, but it looked like he'd
been buried weeks in it and dug up clumsy. He had on greasy rawhide
breeches and battered cowhand boots for shoes. He had a month's beard
on his lip and he stunk.

This here was legendary Dirty Jake, no question about it.

"Get a new glove," I said.

"Nope," he answered, "no good. Last week in Ojo Rojizo I took the
glove off to scratch and right then a man braced me. He threw me in a
horse-trough when I wouldn't fight. I want you to fix me up good.

"I want you to open my hand up and set the dingus just under the skin,
and sew it up again. Knew a feller did that with five-dollar gold
pieces cuz he didn't like banks. Worked fine till he got a counterfeit,
and it killed him.

"I'll lay low in the hills till the hand heals. No problems after that."

No problems? Maybe so, but I'd been doing some thinking. Still, I kept
my mouth shut and did what he wanted, and he slunk off with no thanks.
Don't guess I really had any coming.

After he left I got out my tallybook and ticked off the men Dirty
Jake had killed: One Eye Jack Sundstrom, Fat Charlie Ticknor, Pilander
Quantrell, Lobo Stephens, Alec the Frenchman Dubois, some jackass Texas
nobody even knew and the rest, all men whose brains had telegraphed a
special signal to Jake's gun before it reached their own right hand.
Well, there was a new pistolero in town.

A month and a half later I was craned around, trying to lance a boil of
my own, when out of the corner of my eye I saw Dirty Jake go by under
my window. He'd dug that hat with the ostrich plume out from under the
rocks, his hand was healed, he was swinging his umbrella and he didn't
so much as look up. He was headed for the Owl Hoot Palace. I decided
the boil'd wait.

Less than five minutes later I heard the shots, two of them. A second
later Jubal Bean, swamper at the Owl Hoot, came pounding up the
boardwalk and hollered in the door:

"Doc, better come quick. Dirty Jake just took a couple slugs in the
chest and he never even got to draw!"

I took my time. "It was just a matter of odds," I said. "Who got him?"

"The new one," Jubal said, "the man they call Lefty."

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, a couple more weeks to bleach, a little wiring, and I'll be
heading East. Look for the billboards:

                               MR. BONES
                     The Fastest Draw in the West
                      "Faster than Billy the Kid
                          and Twice as Dead"
                             presented by
                            HIRAM PERTWEE,
                                 M.D.

All I've got to do is figure how to keep getting mad at Jake.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Fastest Gun Dead, by Julian F. Grow

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FASTEST GUN DEAD ***

***** This file should be named 61013.txt or 61013.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/0/1/61013/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
