The Project Gutenberg EBook of Tolliver's Orbit, by H.B. Fyfe

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Tolliver's Orbit

Author: H.B. Fyfe

Release Date: December 30, 2019 [EBook #61053]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TOLLIVER'S ORBIT ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           TOLLIVER'S ORBIT

                  was slow--but it wasn't boring. And
                  it would get you there--as long as
                  you weren't going anywhere anyhow!

                             By H. B. FYFE

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Worlds of If Science Fiction, September 1961.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Johnny Tolliver scowled across the desk at his superior. His black
thatch was ruffled, as if he had been rubbed the wrong way.

"I didn't ask you to cut out your own graft, did I?" he demanded.
"Just don't try to sucker me in on the deal. I know you're operating
something sneaky all through the colony, but it's not for me."

The big moon-face of Jeffers, manager of the Ganymedan branch of
Koslow Spaceways, glowered back at him. Its reddish tinge brightened
the office noticeably, for such of Ganymede's surface as could be seen
through the transparent dome outside the office window was cold, dim
and rugged. The glowing semi-disk of Jupiter was more than half a
million miles distant.

"Try not to be simple--for once!" growled Jeffers. "A little percentage
here and there on the cargoes never shows by the time figures get back
to Earth. The big jets in the home office don't care. They count it on
the estimates."

"You asked any of them lately?" Tolliver prodded.

"Now, _listen_! Maybe they live soft back on Earth since the mines
and the Jovian satellite colonies grew; but they were out here in the
beginning, most of them. _They_ know what it's like. D'ya think they
don't expect us to make what we can on the side?"

Tolliver rammed his fists into the side pockets of his loose blue
uniform jacket. He shook his head, grinning resignedly.

"You just don't listen to _me_," he complained. "You know I took this
piloting job just to scrape up money for an advanced engineering degree
back on Earth. I only want to finish my year--not get into something I
can't quit."

Jeffers fidgeted in his chair, causing it to creak under the bulk of
his body. It had been built for Ganymede, but not for Jeffers.

"Aw, it's not like that," the manager muttered. "You can ease out
whenever your contract's up. Think we'd bend a good orbit on your
account?"

Tolliver stared at him silently, but the other had difficulty meeting
his eye.

"All right, then!" Jeffers snapped after a long moment. "If you want it
that way, either you get in line with us or you're through right now!"

"You can't fire me," retorted the pilot pityingly. "I came out here
on a contract. Five hundred credits a week base pay, five hundred for
hazardous duty. How else can you get pilots out to Jupiter?"

"Okay I can't fire you legally--as long as you report for work,"
grumbled Jeffers, by now a shade more ruddy. "We'll see how long you
keep reporting. Because you're off the Callisto run as of now! Sit in
your quarters and see if the company calls _that_ hazardous duty!"

"Doesn't matter," answered Tolliver, grinning amiably. "The hazardous
part is just being on the same moon as you for the next six months."

He winked and walked out, deliberately leaving the door open behind him
so as to enjoy the incoherent bellowing that followed him.

_Looks like a little vacation_, he thought, unperturbed. _He'll come
around. I just want to get back to Earth with a clean rep. Let Jeffers
and his gang steal the Great Red Spot off Jupiter if they like! It's
their risk._

       *       *       *       *       *

Tolliver began to have his doubts the next day; which was "Tuesday"
by the arbitrary calender constructed to match Ganymede's week-long
journey around Jupiter.

His contract guaranteed a pilot's rating, but someone had neglected to
specify the type of craft to be piloted.

On the bulletin board, Tolliver's name stood out beside the number
of one of the airtight tractors used between the dome city and the
spaceport, or for hauling cross-country to one of the mining domes.

He soon found that there was nothing for him to do but hang around the
garage in case a spaceship should land. The few runs to other domes
seemed to be assigned to drivers with larger vehicles.

The following day was just as boring, and the next more so. He swore
when he found the assignment unchanged by "Friday." Even the reflection
that it was payday was small consolation.

"Hey, Johnny!" said a voice at his shoulder. "The word is that they're
finally gonna trust you to take that creeper outside."

Tolliver turned to see Red Higgins, a regular driver.

"What do you mean?"

"They say some home-office relative is coming in on the _Javelin_."

"What's wrong with that?" asked Tolliver. "Outside of the way they keep
handing out soft jobs to nephews, I mean."

"Aah, these young punks just come out for a few months so they can go
back to Earth making noises like spacemen. Sometimes there's no reason
but them for sending a ship back with a crew instead of in an economy
orbit. Wait till you see the baggage you'll have to load!"

Later in the day-period, Tolliver recalled this warning. Under a
portable, double-chambered plastic dome blown up outside the ship's
airlock, a crewman helped him load two trunks and a collection of bags
into the tractor. He was struggling to suppress a feeling of outrage at
the waste of fuel involved when the home-office relative emerged.

She was about five feet four and moved as if she walked lightly even
in stronger gravity than Ganymede's. Her trim coiffure was a shade too
blonde which served to set off both the blue of her eyes and the cap
apparently won from one of the pilots. She wore gray slacks and a heavy
sweater, like a spacer.

"Sorry to keep you waiting," she said, sliding into the seat beside
Tolliver. "By the way, just call me Betty."

"Sure," agreed Tolliver thinking, _Ohmigod! Trying already to be just
one of the gang, instead of Lady Betty! Is her old man the treasurer,
or does he just know where bodies are buried?_

"They were making dates," said the girl. "Were they ribbing me, or is
it true that none of the four of them goes back with the ship?"

"It's true enough," Tolliver assured her. "We need people out here, and
it costs a lot to make the trip. They found they could send back loaded
ships by 'automatic' flight--that is, a long, slow, economical orbit
and automatic signalling equipment. Then they're boarded approaching
Earth's orbit and landed by pilots who don't have to waste their time
making the entire trip."

       *       *       *       *       *

He followed the signals of a spacesuited member of the port staff and
maneuvered out of the dome. Then he headed the tractor across the
frozen surface of Ganymede toward the permanent domes of the city.

"How is it here?" asked the girl. "They told me it's pretty rough."

"What did you expect?" asked Tolliver. "Square dances with champagne?"

"Don't be silly. Daddy says I'm supposed to learn traffic routing and
the business management of a local branch. They probably won't let me
see much else."

"You never can tell," said the pilot, yielding to temptation. "Any
square inch of Ganymede is likely to be dangerous."

_I'll be sorry later_, he reflected, _but if Jeffers keeps me jockeying
this creeper, I'm entitled to some amusement. And Daddy's little girl
is trying too hard to sound like one of the gang._

"Yeah," he went on, "right now, I don't do a thing but drive missions
from the city to the spaceport."

"Missions! You call driving a mile or so a _mission_?"

Tolliver pursed his lips and put on a shrewd expression.

"Don't sneer at Ganymede, honey!" he warned portentously. "Many a
man who did isn't here today. Take the fellow who used to drive this
mission!"

"You can call me Betty. What happened to him?"

"I'll tell you some day," Tolliver promised darkly. "This moon can
strike like a vicious animal."

"Oh, they told me there was nothing alive on Ganymede!"

"I was thinking of the mountain slides," said the pilot. "Not to
mention volcanic puffballs that pop out through the frozen crust where
you'd least expect. That's why I draw such high pay for driving an
unarmored tractor."

"You use armored vehicles?" gasped the girl.

She was now sitting bolt upright in the swaying seat. Tolliver
deliberately dipped one track into an icy hollow. In the light gravity,
the tractor responded with a weird, floating lurch.

"Those slides," he continued. "Ganymede's only about the size of
Mercury, something like 3200 miles in diameter, so things get heaped up
at steep angles. When the rock and ice are set to sliding, they come
at you practically horizontally. It doesn't need much start, and it
barrels on for a long way before there's enough friction to stop it. If
you're in the way--well, it's just too bad!"

_Say, that's pretty good!_ he told himself. _What a liar you are,
Tolliver!_

He enlarged upon other dangers to be encountered on the satellite,
taking care to impress the newcomer with the daredeviltry of John
Tolliver, driver of "missions" across the menacing wastes between dome
and port.

In the end, he displayed conclusive evidence in the form of the weekly
paycheck he had received that morning. It did not, naturally, indicate
he was drawing the salary of a space pilot. Betty looked thoughtful.

"I'm retiring in six months if I'm still alive," he said bravely,
edging the tractor into the airlock at their destination. "Made my
pile. No use pushing your luck too far."

His charge seemed noticeably subdued, but cleared her throat to request
that Tolliver guide her to the office of the manager. She trailed along
as if with a burden of worry upon her mind, and the pilot's conscience
prickled.

_I'll get hold of her after Jeffers is through and set her straight_,
he resolved. _It isn't really funny if the sucker is too ignorant to
know better._

       *       *       *       *       *

Remembering his grudge against the manager, he took pleasure in walking
in without knocking.

"Jeffers," he announced, "this is ... just call her Betty."

The manager's jowled features twisted into an expression of welcome as
jovial as that of a hungry crocodile.

"Miss Koslow!" he beamed, like a politician the day before the voting.
"It certainly is an honor to have you on Ganymede with us! That's all,
Tolliver, you can go. Yes, indeed! Mr. Koslow--the president, that is:
your father--sent a message about you. I repeat, it will be an honor to
show you the ropes. Did you want something else, Tolliver?"

"Never mind him, Mr. Jeffers," snapped the girl, in a tone new to
Tolliver. "We won't be working together, I'm afraid. You've already had
enough rope."

Jeffers seemed to stagger standing still behind his desk. His loose
lips twitched uncertainly, and he looked questioningly to Tolliver. The
pilot stared at Betty, trying to recall pictures he had seen of the
elder Koslow. He was also trying to remember some of the lies he had
told en route from the spaceport.

"Wh-wh-what do you mean, Miss Koslow?" Jeffers stammered.

He darted a suspicious glare at Tolliver.

"Mr. Jeffers," said the girl, "I may look like just another spoiled
little blonde, but the best part of this company will be mine someday.
I was not allowed to reach twenty-two without learning something about
holding on to it."

Tolliver blinked. He had taken her for three or four years older.
Jeffers now ignored him, intent upon the girl.

"Daddy gave me the title of tenth vice-president mostly as a joke, when
he told me to find out what was wrong with operations on Ganymede.
I have _some_ authority, though. And you look like the source of the
trouble to me."

"You can't prove anything," declared Jeffers hoarsely.

"Oh, can't I? I've already seen certain evidence, and the rest won't
be hard to find. Where are your books, Mr. Jeffers? You're as good as
fired!"

The manager dropped heavily to his chair. He stared unbelievingly at
Betty, and Tolliver thought he muttered something about "just landed."
After a moment, the big man came out of his daze enough to stab an
intercom button with his finger. He growled at someone on the other end
to come in without a countdown.

Tolliver, hardly thinking about it, expected the someone to be
a secretary, but it turned out to be three members of Jeffers'
headquarters staff. He recognized one as Rawlins, a warehouse chief,
and guessed that the other two might be his assistants. They were large
enough.

"No stupid questions!" Jeffers ordered. "Lock these two up while I
think!"

Tolliver started for the door immediately, but was blocked off.

"Where should we lock--?" the fellow paused to ask.

Tolliver brought up a snappy uppercut to the man's chin, feeling that
it was a poor time to engage Jeffers in fruitless debate.

In the gravity of Ganymede, the man was knocked off balance as much as
he was hurt, and sprawled on the floor.

"I _told_ you no questions!" bawled Jeffers.

The fallen hero, upon arising, had to content himself with grabbing
Betty. The others were swarming over Tolliver. Jeffers came around his
desk to assist.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tolliver found himself dumped on the floor of an empty office in the
adjoining warehouse building. It seemed to him that a long time had
been spent in carrying him there.

He heard an indignant yelp, and realized that the girl had been pitched
in with him. The snapping of a lock was followed by the tramp of
departing footsteps and then by silence.

After considering the idea a few minutes, Tolliver managed to sit up.

He had his wind back. But when he fingered the swelling lump behind his
left ear, a sensation befuddled him momentarily.

"I'm sorry about that," murmured Betty.

Tolliver grunted. Sorrow would not reduce the throbbing, nor was he
in a mood to undertake an explanation of why Jeffers did not like him
anyway.

"I think perhaps you're going to have a shiner," remarked the girl.

"Thanks for letting me know in time," said Tolliver.

The skin under his right eye did feel a trifle tight, but he could see
well enough. The abandoned and empty look of the office worried him.

"What can we use to get out of here?" he mused.

"Why should we try?" asked the girl. "What can he do?"

"You'd be surprised. How did you catch on to him so soon?"

"Your paycheck," said Betty. "As soon as I saw that ridiculous amount,
it was obvious that there was gross mismanagement here. It had to be
Jeffers."

Tolliver groaned.

"Then, on the way over here, he as good as admitted everything. You
didn't hear him, I guess. Well, he seemed to be caught all unaware, and
seemed to blame you for it."

"Sure!" grumbled the pilot. "He thinks I told you he was grafting or
smuggling, or whatever he has going for him here. That's why I want to
get out of here--before I find myself involved in some kind of fatal
accident!"

"What do you know about the crooked goings-on here?" asked Betty after
a startled pause.

"Nothing," retorted Tolliver. "Except that there are some. There are
rumors, and I had a halfway invitation to join in. I think he sells
things to the mining colonies and makes a double profit for himself by
claiming the stuff lost in transit. You didn't think you scared him
that bad over a little slack managing?"

The picture of Jeffers huddled with his partners in the headquarters
building, plotting the next move, brought Tolliver to his feet.

There was nothing in the unused office but an old table and half a
dozen plastic crates. He saw that the latter contained a mess of
discarded records.

"Better than nothing at all," he muttered.

He ripped out a double handful of the forms, crumpled them into a pile
at the doorway, and pulled out his cigarette lighter.

"What do you think you're up to?" asked Betty with some concern.

"This plastic is tough," said Tolliver, "but it will bend with enough
heat. If I can kick loose a hinge, maybe we can fool them yet!"

He got a little fire going, and fed it judiciously with more papers.

"You know," he reflected, "it might be better for you to stay here.
He can't do much about you, and you don't have any real proof just by
yourself."

"I'll come along with you, Tolliver," said the girl.

"No, I don't think you'd better."

"Why not?"

"Well ... after all, what would he dare do? Arranging an accident to
the daughter of the boss isn't something that he can pull off without a
lot of investigation. He'd be better off just running for it."

"Let's not argue about it," said Betty, a trifle pale but looking
determined. "I'm coming with you. Is that stuff getting soft yet?"

Tolliver kicked at the edge of the door experimentally. It seemed to
give slightly, so he knocked the burning papers aside and drove his
heel hard at the corner below the hinge.

The plastic yielded.

"That's enough already, Tolliver," whispered the girl. "We can crawl
through!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hardly sixty seconds later, he led her into a maze of stacked crates
in the warehouse proper. The building was not much longer than wide,
for each of the structures in the colony had its own hemispherical
emergency dome of transparent plastic. They soon reached the other end.

"I think there's a storeroom for spacesuits around here," muttered
Tolliver.

"Why do you want them?"

"Honey, I just don't think it will be so easy to lay hands on a
tractor. I bet Jeffers already phoned the garage and all the airlocks
with some good lie that will keep me from getting through."

After a brief search, he located the spacesuits. Many, evidently
intended for replacements, had never been unpacked, but there were a
dozen or so serviced and standing ready for emergencies. He showed
Betty how to climb into one, and checked her seals and valves after
donning a suit himself.

"That switch under your chin," he said, touching helmets so she could
hear him. "Leave it turned off. _Anybody_ might be listening!"

He led the way out a rear door of the warehouse. With the heavy knife
that was standard suit equipment, he deliberately slashed a four-foot
square section out of the dome. He motioned to Betty to step through,
then trailed along with the plastic under his arm.

He caught up and touched helmets again.

"Just act as if you're on business," he told her. "For all anyone can
see, we might be inspecting the dome."

"Where are you going?" asked Betty.

"Right through the wall, and then head for the nearest mine. Jeffers
can't be running _everything_!"

"Is there any way to get to a TV?" asked the girl. "I ... uh ... Daddy
gave me a good number to call if I needed help."

"How good?"

"Pretty official, as a matter of fact."

"All right," Tolliver decided. "We'll try the ship you just came in on.
They might have finished refueling and left her empty."

They had to cross one open lane between buildings, and Tolliver was
very conscious of moving figures in the distance; but no one seemed to
look their way.

Reaching the foot of the main dome over the establishment, he glanced
furtively about, then plunged his knife into the transparent material.

From the corner of his eye, he thought he saw Betty make a startled
gesture, but he had his work cut out for him. This was tougher than the
interior dome.

Finally, he managed to saw a ragged slit through which they could
squeeze. There was room to walk between the inner and outer layer, so
he moved along a few yards. A little dust began to blow about where
they had gone through. He touched helmets once more.

"This time," he said, "the air will really start to blow, so get
through as fast as you can. If I can slap this piece of plastic over
the rip, it may stow down the loss of pressure enough to give us quite
a lead before the alarms go off."

Through the faceplates, he saw the girl nod, wide-eyed.

As soon as he plunged the knife into the outer layer, he could see
dusty, moist air puffing out into the near-vacuum of Ganymede's
surface. Fumbling, he cut as fast as he could and shoved Betty through
the small opening.

Squeezing through in his turn, he left one arm inside to spread the
plastic sheet as best he could. The internal air pressure slapped it
against the inside of the dome as if glued, although it immediately
showed an alarming tendency to balloon through the ruptured spot.

_They'll find it, all right_, Tolliver reminded himself. _Don't be here
when they do!_

He grabbed Betty by the wrist of her spacesuit and headed for the
nearest outcropping of rock.

It promptly developed that she had something to learn about running on
ice in such low gravity. Until they were out of direct line of sight
from the settlement, Tolliver simply dragged her.

Then, when he decided that it was safe enough to pause and tell her
how to manage better, the sight of her outraged scowl through the
face-plate made him think better of it.

_By the time we reach the ship, she'll have learned_, he consoled
himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a long mile, even at the pace human muscles could achieve on
Ganymede. They took one short rest, during which Tolliver was forced
to explain away the dangers of slides and volcanic puffballs. He
admitted to having exaggerated slightly. In the end, they reached the
spaceship.

There seemed to be no one about. The landing dome had been collapsed
and stored, and the ship's airlock port was closed.

"That's all right," Tolliver told the girl. "We can get in with no
trouble."

It was when he looked about to make sure that they were unobserved that
he caught a glimpse of motion back toward the city. He peered at the
spot through the dim light. After a moment, he definitely recognized
the outline of a tractor breasting a rise in the ground and tilting
downward again.

"In fact, we _have_ to get in to stay out of trouble," he said to Betty.

He located the switch-cover in the hull, opened it and activated the
mechanism that swung open the airlock and extended the ladder.

It took him considerable scrambling to boost the girl up the ladder and
inside, but he managed. They passed through the airlock, fretting at
the time required to seal, pump air and open the inner hatch; and then
Tolliver led the way up another ladder to the control room. It was a
clumsy trip in their spacesuits, but he wanted to save time.

In the control room, he shoved the girl into an acceleration seat,
glanced at the gauges and showed her how to open her helmet.

"Leave the suit on," he ordered, getting in the first word while she
was still shaking her head. "It will help a little on the takeoff."

"Takeoff!" shrilled Betty. "What do you think you're going to do? I
just want to use the radio or TV!"

"That tractor will get here in a minute or two. They might cut your
conversation kind of short. Now shut up and let me look over these
dials!"

He ran a practiced eye over the board, reading the condition of the
ship. It pleased him. Everything was ready for a takeoff into an
economy orbit for Earth. He busied himself making a few adjustments,
doing his best to ignore the protests from his partner in crime. He
warned her the trip might be long.

"I told you not to come," he said at last. "Now sit back!"

He sat down and pushed a button to start the igniting process.

In a moment, he could feel the rumble of the rockets through the deck,
and then it was out of his hands for several minutes.

"That wasn't so bad," Betty admitted some time later. "Did you go in
the right direction?"

"Who knows?" retorted Tolliver. "There wasn't time to check
_everything_. We'll worry about that after we make your call."

"Oh!" Betty looked helpless. "It's in my pocket."

Tolliver sighed. In their weightless state, it was no easy task to pry
her out of the spacesuit. He thought of inquiring if she needed any
further help, but reminded himself that this was the boss's daughter.
When Betty produced a memo giving frequency and call sign, he set about
making contact.

It took only a few minutes, as if the channel had been monitored
expectantly, and the man who flickered into life on the screen wore a
uniform.

"Space Patrol?" whispered Tolliver incredulously.

"That's right," said Betty. "Uh ... Daddy made arrangements for me."

Tolliver held her in front of the screen so she would not float out
of range of the scanner and microphone. As she spoke, he stared
exasperatedly at a bulkhead, marveling at the influence of a man who
could arrange for a cruiser to escort his daughter to Ganymede and
wondering what was behind it all.

When he heard Betty requesting assistance in arresting Jeffers and
reporting the manager as the head of a ring of crooks, he began to
suspect. He also noticed certain peculiarities about the remarks of the
Patrolman.

       *       *       *       *       *

For one thing, though the officer seemed well acquainted with Betty, he
never addressed her by the name of Koslow. For another, he accepted the
request as if he had been hanging in orbit merely until learning who to
go down after.

_They really sent her out to nail someone_, Tolliver realized. _Of
course, she stumbled onto Jeffers by plain dumb luck. But she had an
idea of what to look for. How do I get into these things? She might
have got me killed!_

"We do have one trouble," he heard Betty saying. "This tractor driver,
Tolliver, saved my neck by making the ship take off somehow, but he
says it's set for a six-month orbit, or economy flight. Whatever they
call it. I don't think he has any idea where we're headed."

Tolliver pulled her back, holding her in mid-air by the slack of her
sweater.

"Actually, I have a fine idea," he informed the officer coldly. "I
happen to be a qualified space pilot. Everything here is under control.
If Miss Koslow thinks you should arrest Jeffers, you can call us later
on this channel."

"Miss Koslow?" repeated the spacer. "Did she tell you--well, no matter!
If you'll be okay, we'll attend to the other affair immediately."

He signed off promptly. The pilot faced Betty, who looked more offended
than reassured at discovering his status.

"This 'Miss Koslow' business," he said suspiciously. "He sounded funny
about that."

The girl grinned.

"Relax, Tolliver," she told him. "Did you really believe Daddy would
send his own little girl way out here to Ganymede to look for whoever
was gypping him?"

"You ... you...?"

"Sure. The name's Betty Hanlon. I work for a private investigating
firm. If old Koslow had a son to impersonate--"

"I'd be stuck for six months in this orbit with some brash young man,"
Tolliver finished for her. "I guess it's better this way," he said
meditatively a moment later.

"Oh, come _on_! Can't they get us back? How can you tell where we're
going?"

"I know enough to check takeoff time. It was practically due anyhow, so
we'll float into the vicinity of Earth at about the right time to be
picked up."

He went on to explain something of the tremendous cost in fuel
necessary to make more than minor corrections to their course. Even
though the Patrol ship could easily catch the slow freighter, bringing
along enough fuel to head back would be something else again.

"We'll just have to ride it out," he said sympathetically. "The ship is
provisioned according to law, and you were probably going back anyhow."

"I didn't expect to so soon."

"Yeah, you were pretty lucky. They'll think you're a marvel to crack
the case in about three hours on Ganymede."

"Great!" muttered Betty. "What a lucky girl I am!"

"Yes," admitted Tolliver, "there _are_ problems. If you like, we might
get the captain of that Patrol ship to legalize the situation by TV."

"I can see you're used to sweeping girls off their feet," she commented
sourly.

"The main problem is whether you can cook."

Betty frowned at him.

"I'm pretty good with a pistol," she offered, "or going over crooked
books. But cook? Sorry."

"Well, one of us had better learn, and I'll have other things to do."

"I'll think about it," promised the girl, staring thoughtfully at the
deck.

Tolliver anchored himself in a seat and grinned as he thought about it
too.

_After a while_, he promised himself, _I'll explain how I cut the fuel
flow and see if she's detective enough to suspect that we're just
orbiting Ganymede!_





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Tolliver's Orbit, by H.B. Fyfe

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TOLLIVER'S ORBIT ***

***** This file should be named 61053.txt or 61053.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/0/5/61053/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
