The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Desert and the Stars, by Keith Laumer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Desert and the Stars

Author: Keith Laumer

Release Date: February 1, 2020 [EBook #61285]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DESERT AND THE STARS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                       THE DESERT AND THE STARS

                            BY KEITH LAUMER

                     The Aga Kaga wanted peace--a
                     piece of everything in sight!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Worlds of If Science Fiction, November 1962.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"I'm not at all sure," Under-Secretary Sternwheeler said, "that I fully
understand the necessity for your ... ah ... absenting yourself from
your post of duty, Mr. Retief. Surely this matter could have been dealt
with in the usual way--assuming any action is necessary."

"I had a sharp attack of writer's cramp, Mr. Secretary," Retief said.
"So I thought I'd better come along in person--just to be sure I was
positive of making my point."

"Eh?"

"Why, ah, there were a number of dispatches," Deputy Under-Secretary
Magnan put in. "Unfortunately, this being end-of-the-fiscal-year time,
we found ourselves quite inundated with reports. Reports, reports,
reports--"

"Not criticizing the reporting system, are you, Mr. Magnan?" the
Under-Secretary barked.

"Gracious, no," Magnan said. "I love reports."

"It seems nobody's told the Aga Kagans about fiscal years," Retief
said. "They're going right ahead with their program of land-grabbing on
Flamme. So far, I've persuaded the Boyars that this is a matter for the
Corps, and not to take matters into their own hands."

The Under-Secretary nodded. "Quite right. Carry on along the same
lines. Now, if there's nothing further--"

"Thank you, Mr. Secretary," Magnan said, rising. "We certainly
appreciate your guidance."

"There is a little something further," said Retief, sitting solidly in
his chair. "What's the Corps going to do about the Aga Kagans?"

The Under-Secretary turned a liverish eye on Retief. "As Minister
to Flamme, you should know that the function of a diplomatic
representative is merely to ... what shall I say...?"

"String them along?" Magnan suggested.

"An unfortunate choice of phrase," the Under-Secretary said. "However,
it embodies certain realities of Galactic politics. The Corps must
concern itself with matters of broad policy."

"Sixty years ago the Corps was encouraging the Boyars to settle
Flamme," Retief said. "They were assured of Corps support."

"I don't believe you'll find that in writing," said the Under-Secretary
blandly. "In any event, that was sixty years ago. At that time a
foothold against Neo-Concordiatist elements was deemed desirable. Now
the situation has changed."

"The Boyars have spent sixty years terraforming Flamme," Retief said.
"They've cleared jungle, descummed the seas, irrigated deserts, set out
forests. They've just about reached the point where they can begin to
enjoy it. The Aga Kagans have picked this as a good time to move in.
They've landed thirty detachments of 'fishermen'--complete with armored
trawlers mounting 40 mm infinite repeaters--and another two dozen
parties of 'homesteaders'--all male and toting rocket launchers."

"Surely there's land enough on the world to afford space to both
groups," the Under-Secretary said. "A spirit of co-operation--"

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Boyars needed some co-operation sixty years ago," Retief said.
"They tried to get the Aga Kagans to join in and help them beat
back some of the saurian wild life that liked to graze on people.
The Corps didn't like the idea. They wanted to see an undisputed
anti-Concordiatist enclave. The Aga Kagans didn't want to play, either.
But now that the world is tamed, they're moving in."

"The exigencies of diplomacy require a flexible policy--"

"I want a firm assurance of Corps support to take back to Flamme,"
Retief said. "The Boyars are a little naive. They don't understand
diplomatic triple-speak. They just want to hold onto the homes they've
made out of a wasteland."

"I'm warning you, Retief!" the Under-Secretary snapped, leaning
forward, wattles quivering. "Corps policy with regard to Flamme
includes no inflammatory actions based on outmoded concepts. The Boyars
will have to accommodate themselves to the situation!"

"That's what I'm afraid of," Retief said. "They're not going to sit
still and watch it happen. If I don't take back concrete evidence of
Corps backing, we're going to have a nice hot little shooting war on
our hands."

The Under-Secretary pushed out his lips and drummed his fingers on the
desk.

"Confounded hot-heads," he muttered. "Very well, Retief. I'll go along
to the extent of a Note; but positively no further."

"A Note? I was thinking of something more like a squadron of Corps
Peace Enforcers running through a few routine maneuvers off Flamme."

"Out of the question. A stiffly worded Protest Note is the best I can
do. That's final."

Back in the corridor, Magnan turned to Retief. "When will you learn
not to argue with Under-Secretaries? One would think you actively
disliked the idea of ever receiving a promotion. I was astonished
at the Under-Secretary's restraint. Frankly, I was stunned when he
actually agreed to a Note. I, of course, will have to draft it." Magnan
pulled at his lower lip thoughtfully. "Now, I wonder, should I view
with deep concern an act of open aggression, or merely point out an
apparent violation of technicalities...."

"Don't bother," Retief said. "I have a draft all ready to go."

"But how--?"

"I had a feeling I'd get paper instead of action," Retief said. "I
thought I'd save a little time all around."

"At times, your cynicism borders on impudence."

"At other times, it borders on disgust. Now, if you'll run the Note
through for signature, I'll try to catch the six o'clock shuttle."

"Leaving so soon? There's an important reception tonight. Some of our
biggest names will be there. An excellent opportunity for you to join
in the diplomatic give-and-take."

"No, thanks. I want to get back to Flamme and join in something mild,
like a dinosaur hunt."

"When you get there," said Magnan, "I hope you'll make it quite clear
that this matter is to be settled without violence."

"Don't worry. I'll keep the peace, if I have to start a war to do it."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the broad verandah at Government House, Retief settled himself
comfortably in a lounge chair. He accepted a tall glass from a
white-jacketed waiter and regarded the flamboyant Flamme sunset, a
gorgeous blaze of vermillion and purple that reflected from a still
lake, tinged the broad lawn with color, silhouetted tall poplars among
flower beds.

"You've done great things here in sixty years, Georges," said Retief.
"Not that natural geological processes wouldn't have produced the same
results, given a couple of hundred million years."

"Don't belabor the point," the Boyar Chef d'Regime said. "Since we seem
to be on the verge of losing it."

"You're forgetting the Note."

"A Note," Georges said, waving his cigar. "What the purple polluted
hell is a Note supposed to do? I've got Aga Kagan claim-jumpers camped
in the middle of what used to be a fine stand of barley, cooking
sheep's brains over dung fires not ten miles from Government House--and
upwind at that."

"Say, if that's the same barley you distill your whiskey from, I'd
call that a first-class atrocity."

"Retief, on your say-so, I've kept my boys on a short leash. They've
put up with plenty. Last week, while you were away, these barbarians
sailed that flotilla of armor-plated junks right through the middle of
one of our best oyster breeding beds. It was all I could do to keep a
bunch of our men from going out in private helis and blasting 'em out
of the water."

"That wouldn't have been good for the oysters, either."

"That's what I told 'em. I also said you'd be back here in a few days
with something from Corps HQ. When I tell 'em all we've got is a piece
of paper, that'll be the end. There's a strong vigilante organization
here that's been outfitting for the last four weeks. If I hadn't held
them back with assurances that the CDT would step in and take care of
this invasion, they would have hit them before now."

       *       *       *       *       *

"That would have been a mistake," said Retief. "The Aga Kagans are
tough customers. They're active on half a dozen worlds at the moment.
They've been building up for this push for the last five years. A
show of resistance by you Boyars without Corps backing would be an
invitation to slaughter--with the excuse that you started it."

"So what are we going to do? Sit here and watch these goat-herders take
over our farms and fisheries?"

"Those goat-herders aren't all they seem. They've got a first-class
modern navy."

"I've seen 'em. They camp in goat-skin tents, gallop around on
animal-back, wear dresses down to their ankles--"

"The 'goat-skin' tents are a high-polymer plastic, made in the same
factory that turns out those long flowing bullet-proof robes you
mention. The animals are just for show. Back home they use helis and
ground cars of the most modern design."

The Chef d'Regime chewed his cigar.

"Why the masquerade?"

"Something to do with internal policies, I suppose."

"So we sit tight and watch 'em take our world away from us. That's what
I get for playing along with you, Retief. We should have clobbered
these monkeys as soon as they set foot on our world."

"Slow down, I haven't finished yet. There's still the Note."

"I've got plenty of paper already. Rolls and rolls of it."

"Give diplomatic processes a chance," said Retief. "The Note hasn't
even been delivered yet. Who knows? We may get surprising results."

"If you expect me to supply a runner for the purpose, you're out of
luck. From what I hear, he's likely to come back with his ears stuffed
in his hip pocket."

"I'll deliver the Note personally," Retief said. "I could use a couple
of escorts--preferably strong-arm lads."

The Chef d'Regime frowned, blew out a cloud of smoke. "I wasn't kidding
about these Aga Kagans," he said. "I hear they have some nasty habits.
I don't want to see you operated on with the same knives they use to
skin out the goats."

"I'd be against that myself. Still, the mail must go through."

"Strong-arm lads, eh? What have you got in mind, Retief?"

"A little muscle in the background is an old diplomatic custom," Retief
said.

The Chef d'Regime stubbed out his cigar thoughtfully. "I used to be a
pretty fair elbow-wrestler myself," he said. "Suppose I go along...?"

"That," said Retief, "should lend just the right note of solidarity to
our little delegation." He hitched his chair closer. "Now, depending on
what we run into, here's how we'll play it...."


                                  II

Eight miles into the rolling granite hills west of the capital, a
black-painted official air-car flying the twin flags of Chief of State
and Terrestrial Minister skimmed along a foot above a pot-holed road.
Slumped in the padded seat, the Boyar Chef d'Regime waved his cigar
glumly at the surrounding hills.

"Fifty years ago this was bare rock," he said. "We've bred special
strains of bacteria here to break down the formations into soil, and we
followed up with a program of broad-spectrum fertilization. We planned
to put the whole area into crops by next year. Now it looks like the
goats will get it."

"Will that scrubland support a crop?" Retief said, eyeing the
lichen-covered knolls.

"Sure. We start with legumes and follow up with cereals. Wait until you
see this next section. It's an old flood plain, came into production
thirty years ago. One of our finest--"

The air-car topped a rise. The Chef dropped his cigar and half rose,
with a hoarse yell. A herd of scraggly goats tossed their heads among a
stand of ripe grain. The car pulled to a stop. Retief held the Boyar's
arm.

"Keep calm, Georges," he said. "Remember, we're on a diplomatic
mission. It wouldn't do to come to the conference table smelling of
goats."

"Let me at 'em!" Georges roared. "I'll throttle 'em with my bare hands!"

A bearded goat eyed the Boyar Chef sardonically, jaw working. "Look at
that long-nosed son!" The goat gave a derisive bleat and took another
mouthful of ripe grain.

"Did you see that?" Georges yelled. "They've trained the son of a--"

"Chin up, Georges," Retief said. "We'll take up the goat problem along
with the rest."

"I'll murder 'em!"

"Hold it, Georges. Look over there."

A hundred yards away, a trio of brown-cloaked horsemen topped a rise,
paused dramatically against the cloudless pale sky, then galloped
down the slope toward the car, rifles bobbing at their backs, cloaks
billowing out behind. Side by side they rode, through the brown-golden
grain, cutting three narrow swaths that ran in a straight sweep from
the ridge to the air-car where Retief and the Chef d'Regime hovered,
waiting.

Georges scrambled for the side of the car. "Just wait 'til I get my
hands on him!"

Retief pulled him back. "Sit tight and look pleased, Georges. Never
give the opposition a hint of your true feelings. Pretend you're a goat
lover--and hand me one of your cigars."

The three horsemen pulled up in a churn of chaff and a clatter of
pebbles. Georges coughed, batting a hand at the settling dust. Retief
peeled the cigar unhurriedly, sniffed, at it and thumbed it alight. He
drew at it, puffed out a cloud of smoke and glanced casually at the
trio of Aga Kagan cavaliers.

"Peace be with you," he intoned in accent-free Kagan. "May your shadows
never grow less."

       *       *       *       *       *

The leader of the three, a hawk-faced man with a heavy beard,
unlimbered his rifle. He fingered it, frowning ferociously.

"Have no fear," Retief said, smiling graciously. "He who comes as a
guest enjoys perfect safety."

A smooth-faced member of the threesome barked an oath and leveled his
rifle at Retief.

"Youth is the steed of folly," Retief said. "Take care that the
beardless one does not disgrace his house."

The leader whirled on the youth and snarled an order. He lowered the
rifle, muttering. Blackbeard turned back to Retief.

"Begone, interlopers," he said. "You disturb the goats."

"Provision is not taken to the houses of the generous," Retief said.
"May the creatures dine well ere they move on."

"Hah! The goats of the Aga Kaga graze on the lands of the Aga Kaga."
The leader edged his horse close, eyed Retief fiercely. "We welcome no
intruders on our lands."

"To praise a man for what he does not possess is to make him appear
foolish," Retief said. "These are the lands of the Boyars. But enough
of these pleasantries. We seek audience with your ruler."

"You may address me as 'Exalted One'," the leader said. "Now dismount
from that steed of Shaitan."

"It is written, if you need anything from a dog, call him 'sir',"
Retief said. "I must decline to impute canine ancestry to a guest. Now
you may conduct us to your headquarters."

"Enough of your insolence!" The bearded man cocked his rifle. "I could
blow your heads off!"

"The hen has feathers, but it does not fly," Retief said. "We have
asked for escort. A slave must be beaten with a stick; for a free man,
a hint is enough."

"You mock me, pale one. I warn you--"

"Only love makes me weep," Retief said. "I laugh at hatred."

"Get out of the car!"

Retief puffed at his cigar, eyeing the Aga Kagan cheerfully. The youth
in the rear moved forward, teeth bared.

"Never give in to the fool, lest he say, 'He fears me,'" Retief said.

"I cannot restrain my men in the face of your insults," the bearded Aga
Kagan roared. "These hens of mine have feathers--and talons as well!"

"When God would destroy an ant, he gives him wings," Retief said.
"Distress in misfortune is another misfortune."

The bearded man's face grew purple.

Retief dribbled the ash from his cigar over the side of the car.

"Now I think we'd better be getting on," he said briskly. "I've enjoyed
our chat, but we do have business to attend to."

The bearded leader laughed shortly. "Does the condemned man beg for the
axe?" he enquired rhetorically. "You shall visit the Aga Kaga, then.
Move on! And make no attempt to escape, else my gun will speak you a
brief farewell."

The horsemen glowered, then, at a word from the leader, took positions
around the car. Georges started the vehicle forward, following the
leading rider. Retief leaned back and let out a long sigh.

"That was close," he said. "I was about out of proverbs."

"You sound as though you'd brought off a coup," Georges said. "From the
expression on the whiskery one's face, we're in for trouble. What was
he saying?"

"Just a routine exchange of bluffs," Retief said. "Now when we get
there, remember to make your flattery sound like insults and your
insults sound like flattery, and you'll be all right."

"These birds are armed. And they don't like strangers," Georges said.
"Maybe I should have boned up on their habits before I joined this
expedition."

"Just stick to the plan," Retief said. "And remember: a handful of luck
is better than a camel-load of learning."

       *       *       *       *       *

The air car followed the escort down a long slope to a dry river bed
and across it, through a barren stretch of shifting sand to a green
oasis set with canopies.

The armed escort motioned the car to a halt before an immense tent of
glistening black. Before the tent armed men lounged under a pennant
bearing a lion _couchant_ in crimson on a field verte.

"Get out," Blackbeard ordered. The guards eyed the visitors, their
drawn sabers catching sunlight. Retief and Georges stepped from the
car onto rich rugs spread on the grass. They followed the ferocious
gesture of the bearded man through the opening into a perfumed interior
of luminous shadows. A heavy odor of incense hung in the air, and the
strumming of stringed instruments laid a muted pattern of sound behind
the decorations of gold and blue, silver and green. At the far end of
the room, among a bevy of female slaves, a large and resplendently clad
man with blue-black hair and a clean-shaven chin popped a grape into
his mouth. He wiped his fingers negligently on a wisp of silk offered
by a handmaiden, belched loudly and looked the callers over.

Blackbeard cleared his throat. "Down on your faces in the presence of
the Exalted One, the Aga Kaga, ruler of East and West."

"Sorry," Retief said firmly. "My hay-fever, you know."

The reclining giant waved a hand languidly.

"Never mind the formalities," he said. "Approach."

Retief and Georges crossed the thick rugs. A cold draft blew toward
them. The reclining man sneezed violently, wiped his nose on another
silken scarf and held up a hand.

"Night and the horses and the desert know me," he said in resonant
tones. "Also the sword and the guest and paper and pen--" He
paused, wrinkled his nose and sneezed again. "Turn off that damned
air-conditioner," he snapped.

He settled himself and motioned the bearded man to him. The two
exchanged muted remarks. Then the bearded man stepped back, ducked his
head and withdrew to the rear.

"Excellency," Retief said, "I have the honor to present M. Georges
Duror, Chef d'Regime of the Planetary government."

"Planetary government?" The Aga Kaga spat grape seeds on the rug. "My
men have observed a few squatters along the shore. If they're in
distress, I'll see about a distribution of goat-meat."

"It is the punishment of the envious to grieve at anothers' plenty,"
Retief said. "No goat-meat will be required."

"Ralph told me you talk like a page out of Mustapha ben Abdallah Katib
Jelebi," the Aga Kaga said. "I know a few old sayings myself. For
example, 'A Bedouin is only cheated once.'"

"We have no such intentions, Excellency," Retief said. "Is it not
written, 'Have no faith in the Prince whose minister cheats you'?"

"I've had some unhappy experiences with strangers," the Aga Kaga said.
"It is written in the sands that all strangers are kin. Still, he who
visits rarely is a welcome guest. Be seated."


                                  III

Handmaidens brought cushions, giggled and fled. Retief and Georges
settled themselves comfortably. The Aga Kaga eyed them in silence.

"We have come to bear tidings from the Corps Diplomatique
Terrestrienne," Retief said solemnly. A perfumed slave girl offered
grapes.

"Modest ignorance is better than boastful knowledge," the Aga Kaga
said. "What brings the CDT into the picture?"

"The essay of the drunkard will be read in the tavern," Retief said.
"Whereas the words of kings...."

"Very well, I concede the point." The Aga Kaga waved a hand at the
serving maids. "Depart, my dears. Attend me later. You too, Ralph.
These are mere diplomats. They are men of words, not deeds."

The bearded man glared and departed. The girls hurried after him.

"Now," the Aga Kaga said. "Let's drop the wisdom of the ages and
get down to the issues. Not that I don't admire your repertoire of
platitudes. How do you remember them all?"

"Diplomats and other liars require good memories," said Retief. "But
as you point out, small wisdom to small minds. I'm here to effect a
settlement of certain differences between yourself and the planetary
authorities. I have here a Note, which I'm conveying on behalf of the
Sector Under-Secretary. With your permission, I'll read it."

"Go ahead." The Aga Kaga kicked a couple of cushions onto the floor,
eased a bottle from under the couch and reached for glasses.

"The Under-Secretary for Sector Affairs presents his compliments to his
Excellency, the Aga Kaga of the Aga Kaga, Primary Potentate, Hereditary
Sheik, Emir of the--"

"Yes, yes. Skip the titles."

Retief flipped over two pages.

"... and with reference to the recent relocation of persons under the
jurisdiction of his Excellency, has the honor to point out that the
territories now under settlement comprise a portion of that area,
hereinafter designated as Sub-sector Alpha, which, under terms of
the Agreement entered into by his Excellency's predecessor, and as
referenced in Sector Ministry's Notes numbers G-175846573957-b and
X-7584736 c-1, with particular pertinence to that body designated in
the Revised Galactic Catalogue, Tenth Edition, as amended, Volume
Nine, reel 43, as 54 Cygni Alpha, otherwise referred to hereinafter as
Flamme--"

"Come to the point," the Aga Kaga cut in. "You're here to lodge a
complaint that I'm invading territories to which someone else lays
claim, is that it?" He smiled broadly, offered dope-sticks and lit one.
"Well, I've been expecting a call. After all, it's what you gentlemen
are paid for. Cheers."

"Your Excellency has a lucid way of putting things," Retief said.

"Call me Stanley," the Aga Kaga said. "The other routine is just to
please some of the old fools--I mean the more conservative members
of my government. They're still gnawing their beards and kicking
themselves because their ancestors dropped science in favor of alchemy
and got themselves stranded in a cultural dead end. This charade is
supposed to prove they were right all along. However, I've no time
to waste in neurotic compensations. I have places to go and deeds to
accomplish."

"At first glance," Retief said, "it looks as though the places are
already occupied, and the deeds are illegal."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Aga Kaga guffawed. "For a diplomat, you speak plainly, Retief. Have
another drink." He poured, eyeing Georges. "What of M. Duror? How does
he feel about it?"

Georges took a thoughtful swallow of whiskey. "Not bad," he said. "But
not quite good enough to cover the odor of goats."

The Aga Kaga snorted. "I thought the goats were overdoing it a bit
myself," he said. "Still, the graybeards insisted. And I need their
support."

"Also," Georges said distinctly, "I think you're soft. You lie around
letting women wait on you, while your betters are out doing an honest
day's work."

The Aga Kaga looked startled. "Soft? I can tie a knot in an iron bar
as big as your thumb." He popped a grape into his mouth. "As for the
rest, your pious views about the virtues of hard labor are as childish
as my advisors' faith in the advantages of primitive plumbing. As for
myself, I am a realist. If two monkeys want the same banana, in the end
one will have it, and the other will cry morality. The days of my years
are numbered, praise be to God. While they last, I hope to eat well,
hunt well, fight well and take my share of pleasure. I leave to others
the arid satisfactions of self-denial and other perversions."

"You admit you're here to grab our land, then," Georges said. "That's
the damnedest piece of bare-faced aggression--"

"Ah, ah!" The Aga Kaga held up a hand. "Watch your vocabulary, my
dear sir. I'm sure that 'justifiable yearnings for territorial
self-realization' would be more appropriate to the situation. Or
possibly 'legitimate aspirations, for self-determination of formerly
exploited peoples' might fit the case. Aggression is, by definition,
an activity carried on only by those who have inherited the mantle of
Colonial Imperialism."

"Imperialism! Why, you Aga Kagans have been the most notorious
planet-grabbers in Sector history, you--you--"

"Call me Stanley." The Aga Kaga munched a grape. "I merely face the
realities of popular folk-lore. Let's be pragmatic; it's a matter of
historical association. Some people can grab land and pass it off
lightly as a moral duty; others are dubbed imperialist merely for
holding onto their own. Unfair, you say. But that's life, my friends.
And I shall continue to take every advantage of it."

"We'll fight you!" Georges bellowed. He took another gulp of whiskey
and slammed the glass down. "You won't take this world without a
struggle!"

"Another?" the Aga Kaga said, offering the bottle. Georges glowered as
his glass was filled. The Aga Kaga held the glass up to the light.

"Excellent color, don't you agree?" He turned his eyes on Georges.

"It's pointless to resist," he said. "We have you outgunned and
outmanned. Your small nation has no chance against us. But we're
prepared to be generous. You may continue to occupy such areas as we do
not immediately require until such time as you're able to make other
arrangements."

"And by the time we've got a crop growing out of what was bare rock,
you'll be ready to move in," the Boyar Chef d'Regime snapped. "But
you'll find that we aren't alone!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Quite alone," the Aga said. He nodded sagely. "Yes, one need but read
the lesson of history. The Corps Diplomatique will make expostulatory
noises, but it will accept the _fait accompli_. You, my dear sir, are
but a very small nibble. We won't make the mistake of excessive greed.
We shall inch our way to empire--and those who stand in our way shall
be dubbed warmongers."

"I see you're quite a student of history, Stanley," Retief said. "I
wonder if you recall the eventual fate of most of the would-be empire
nibblers of the past?"

"Ah, but they grew incautious. They went too far, too fast."

"The confounded impudence," Georges rasped. "Tells us to our face what
he has in mind!"

"An ancient and honorable custom, from the time of _Mein Kampf_ and
the _Communist Manifesto_ through the _Porcelain Wall_ of Leung. Such
declarations have a legendary quality. It's traditional that they're
never taken at face value."

"But always," Retief said, "there was a critical point at which the man
on horseback could have been pulled from the saddle."

"_Could_ have been," the Aga Kaga chuckled. He finished the grapes and
began peeling an orange. "But they never were. Hitler could have been
stopped by the Czech Air Force in 1938; Stalin was at the mercy of the
primitive atomics of the west in 1946; Leung was grossly over-extended
at Rangoon. But the onus of that historic role could not be overcome.
It has been the fate of your spiritual forebears to carve civilization
from the wilderness and then, amid tearing of garments and the heaping
of ashes of self-accusation on your own confused heads, to withdraw,
leaving the spoils for local political opportunists and mob leaders,
clothed in the mystical virtue of native birth. Have a banana."

"You're stretching your analogy a little too far," Retief said. "You're
banking on the inaction of the Corps. You could be wrong."

"I shall know when to stop," the Aga Kaga said.

"Tell me, Stanley," Retief said, rising. "Are we quite private here?"

"Yes, perfectly so," the Aga Kaga said. "None would dare to intrude in
my council." He cocked an eyebrow at Retief. "You have a proposal to
make in confidence? But what of our dear friend Georges? One would not
like to see him disillusioned."

"Don't worry about Georges. He's a realist, like you. He's prepared to
deal in facts. Hard facts, in this case."

The Aga Kaga nodded thoughtfully. "What are you getting at?"

"You're basing your plan of action on the certainty that the Corps will
sit by, wringing its hands, while you embark on a career of planetary
piracy."

"Isn't it the custom?" the Aga Kaga smiled complacently.

"I have news for you, Stanley. In this instance, neck-wringing seems
more in order than hand-wringing."

The Aga Kaga frowned. "Your manner--"

"Never mind our manners!" Georges blurted, standing. "We don't need any
lessons from goat-herding land-thieves!"

The Aga Kaga's face darkened. "You dare to speak thus to me, pig of a
muck-grubber!"

       *       *       *       *       *

With a muffled curse Georges launched himself at the potentate. The
giant rolled aside. He grunted as the Boyar's fist thumped in his short
ribs; then he chopped down on Georges' neck. The Chef d'Regime slid off
onto the floor as the Aga Kaga bounded to his feet, sending fruit and
silken cushions flying.

"I see it now!" he hissed. "An assassination attempt!" He stretched
his arms, thick as tree-roots--a grizzly in satin robes. "Your heads
will ring together like gongs before I have done with you!" He lunged
for Retief. Retief came to his feet, feinted with his left and planted
a short right against the Aga Kaga's jaw with a solid smack. The
potentate stumbled, grabbed; Retief slipped aside. The Aga Kaga whirled
to face Retief.

"A slippery diplomat, by all the houris in Paradise!" he grated,
breathing hard. "But a fool. True to your medieval code of chivalry,
you attacked singly, a blunder I would never have made. And you shall
die for your idiocy!" He opened his mouth to bellow--

"You sure look foolish, with your fancy hair-do down in your eyes,"
Retief said. "The servants will get a big laugh out of it."

With a choked yell, the Aga Kaga dived for Retief, missed as he leaped
aside. The two went to the mat together and rolled, sending a stool
skittering. Grunts and curses echoed as the two big men strained,
muscles popping. Retief groped for a scissors hold; the Aga Kaga seized
his foot, bit hard. Retief bent nearly double, braced himself and
slammed the potentate against the rug. Dust flew. Then the two were on
their feet, circling.

"Many times have I longed to broil a diplomat over a slow fire," the
Aga Kaga snarled. "Tonight will see it come to pass!"

"I've seen it done often at staff meetings," said Retief. "It seems to
have no permanent effect."

The Aga Kaga reached for Retief, who feinted left, hammered a right
to the chin. The Aga Kaga tottered. Retief measured him, brought up a
haymaker. The potentate slammed to the rug--out cold.

       *       *       *       *       *

Georges rolled over, sat up. "Let me at the son of a--" he muttered.

"Take over, Georges," Retief said, panting. "Since he's in a mood to
negotiate now, we may as well get something accomplished."

Georges eyed the fallen ruler, who stirred, groaned lugubriously. "I
hope you know what you're doing," Georges said. "But I'm with you in
any case." He straddled the prone body, plucked a curved knife from the
low table and prodded the Aga Kaga's Adam's apple. The monarch opened
his eyes.

"Make one little peep and your windbag will spring a leak," Georges
said. "Very few historical figures have accomplished anything important
after their throats were cut."

"Stanley won't yell," Retief said. "We're not the only ones who're
guilty of cultural idiocy. He'd lose face something awful if he let
his followers see him like this." Retief settled himself on a tufted
ottoman. "Right, Stanley?"

The Aga Kaga snarled.

Retief selected a grape and ate it thoughtfully. "These aren't
bad, Georges. You might consider taking on a few Aga Kagan
vine-growers--purely on a yearly contract basis, of course."

The Aga Kaga groaned, rolling his eyes.

"Well, I believe we're ready to get down to diplomatic proceedings
now," Retief said. "Nothing like dealing in an atmosphere of realistic
good fellowship. First, of course, there's the matter of the presence
of aliens lacking visas." He opened his briefcase, withdrew a heavy
sheet of parchment. "I have the document here, drawn up and ready for
signature. It provides for the prompt deportation of such persons, by
Corps Transport, all expenses to be borne by the Aga Kagan government.
That's agreeable, I assume?" Retief looked expectantly at the purple
face of the prone potentate. The Aga Kaga grunted a strangled grunt.

"Speak up, Stanley," Retief said. "Give him plenty of air, Georges."

"Shall I let some in through the side?"

"Not yet. I'm sure Stanley wants to be agreeable."

The Aga Kaga snarled.

"Maybe just a little then, Georges," Retief said judiciously. Georges
jabbed the knife in far enough to draw a bead of blood. The Aga Kaga
grunted.

"Agreed!" he snorted. "By the beard of the prophet, when I get my hands
on you...."

"Second item: certain fields, fishing grounds, et cetera, have suffered
damage due to the presence of the aforementioned illegal immigrants.
Full compensation will be made by the Aga Kagan government. Agreed?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Aga Kaga drew a breath, tensed himself; Georges jabbed with the
knife point. His prisoner relaxed with a groan. "Agreed!" he grated. "A
vile tactic! You enter my tent under the guise of guests, protected by
diplomatic immunity--"

"I had the impression we were herded in here at sword point," said
Retief. "Shall we go on? Now there's the little matter of restitution
for violation of sovereignty, reparations for mental anguish, payment
for damaged fences, roads, drainage canals, communications, et cetera,
et cetera. Shall I read them all?"

"Wait until the news of this outrage is spread abroad!"

"They'd never believe it," Retief said. "History would prove it
impossible. And on mature consideration, I'm sure you won't want it
noised about that you entertained visiting dignitaries flat on your
back."

"What about the pollution of the atmosphere by goats?" Georges put in.
"And don't overlook the muddying of streams, the destruction of timber
for camp fires and--"

"I've covered all that sort of thing under a miscellaneous heading,"
Retief said. "We can fill it in at leisure when we get back."

"Bandits!" the Aga Kaga hissed. "Thieves! Dogs of unreliable
imperialists!"

"It is disillusioning, I know," Retief said. "Still, of such little
surprises is history made. Sign here." He held the parchment out and
offered a pen. "A nice clear signature, please. We wouldn't want any
quibbling about the legality of the treaty, after conducting the
negotiation with such scrupulous regard for the niceties."

"Niceties! Never in history has such an abomination been perpetrated!"

"Oh, treaties are always worked out this way, when it comes right down
to it. We've just accelerated the process a little. Now, if you'll just
sign like a good fellow, we'll be on our way. Georges will have his
work cut out for him, planning how to use all this reparations money."

The Aga Kaga gnashed his teeth: Georges prodded. The Aga Kaga seized
the pen and scrawled his name. Retief signed with a flourish. He tucked
the treaty away in his briefcase, took out another.

"This is just a safe-conduct, to get us out of the door and into the
car," he said. "Probably unnecessary, but it won't hurt to have it, in
case you figure out some way to avoid your obligations as a host."

The Aga Kaga signed the document after another prod from Georges.

"One more paper, and I'll be into the jugular," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We're all through now," said Retief. "Stanley, we're going to have
to run now. I'm going to strap up your hands and feet a trifle; it
shouldn't take you more than ten minutes or so to get loose, stick a
band-aid on your neck and--"

"My men will cut you down for the rascals you are!"

"By that time, we'll be over the hill," Retief continued. "At full
throttle; we'll be at Government House in an hour, and of course I
won't waste any time transmitting the treaty to Sector HQ. And the same
concern for face that keeps you from yelling for help will insure that
the details of the negotiation remain our secret."

"Treaty! That scrap of paper!"

"I confess the Corps is a little sluggish about taking action at
times," Retief said, whipping a turn of silken cord around the Aga
Kaga's ankles. "But once it's got signatures on a legal treaty, it's
extremely stubborn about all parties adhering to the letter. It can't
afford to be otherwise, as I'm sure you'll understand." He cinched
up the cord, went to work on the hands. The Aga Kaga glared at him
balefully.

"To the Pit with the Corps! The ferocity of my revenge--"

"Don't talk nonsense, Stanley. There are several squadrons of Peace
Enforcers cruising in the Sector just now. I'm sure you're not ready
to make any historical errors by taking them on." Retief finished and
stood.

"Georges, just stuff a scarf in Stanley's mouth. I think he'd prefer
to work quietly until he recovers his dignity." Retief buckled his
briefcase, selected a large grape and looked down at the Aga Kaga.

"Actually, you'll be glad you saw things our way, Stanley," he said.
"You'll get all the credit for the generous settlement. Of course, it
will be a striking precedent for any other negotiations that may become
necessary if you get grabby on other worlds in this region. And if your
advisors want to know why the sudden change of heart, just tell them
you've decided to start from scratch on an unoccupied world. Mention
the virtues of thrift and hard work. I'm confident you can find plenty
of historical examples to support you."

"Thanks for the drink," said Georges. "Drop in on me at Government
House some time and we'll crack another bottle."

"And don't feel bad about your project's going awry," Retief said. "In
the words of the prophet, 'Stolen goods are never sold at a loss.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

"A remarkable about-face, Retief," Magnan said. "Let this be a lesson
to you. A stern Note of Protest can work wonders."

"A lot depends on the method of delivery," Retief said.

"Nonsense. I knew all along the Aga Kagans were a reasonable and
peace-loving people. One of the advantages of senior rank, of course,
is the opportunity to see the big picture. Why, I was saying only this
morning--"

The desk screen broke into life. The mottled jowls of Under-Secretary
Sternwheeler appeared.

"Magnan! I've just learned of the Flamme affair. Who's responsible?"

"Why, ah ... I suppose that I might be said--"

"This is your work, is it?"

"Well ... Mr. Retief did play the role of messenger."

"Don't pass the buck, Magnan!" the Under-Secretary barked. "What the
devil went on out there?"

"Just a routine Protest Note. Everything is quite in order."

"Bah! Your over-zealousness has cost me dear. I was feeding Flamme
to the Aga Kagans to consolidate our position of moral superiority
for use as a lever in a number of important negotiations. Now they've
backed out! Aga Kaga emerges from the affair wreathed in virtue. You've
destroyed a very pretty finesse in power politics, Mr. Magnan! A year's
work down the drain!"

"But I thought--"

"I doubt that, Mr. Magnan, I doubt that very much!" The
Under-Secretary rang off.

"This is a fine turn of events," Magnan groaned. "Retief, you know very
well Protest Notes are merely intended for the historical record! No
one ever takes them seriously."

"You and the Aga Kaga ought to get together," said Retief. "He's a
great one for citing historical parallels. He's not a bad fellow, as
a matter of fact. I have an invitation from him to visit Kaga and go
mud-pig hunting. He was so impressed by Corps methods that he wants to
be sure we're on his side next time. Why don't you come along?"

"Hmmm. Perhaps I should cultivate him. A few high-level contacts never
do any harm. On the other hand, I understand he lives in a very loose
way, feasting and merrymaking. Frivolous in the extreme. No wife,
you understand, but hordes of lightly clad women about. And in that
connection, the Aga Kagans have some very curious notions as to what
constitutes proper hospitality to a guest."

Retief rose, pulled on the powder blue cloak and black velvet gauntlets
of a Career Minister.

"Don't let it worry you," he said. "You'll have a great time. And as
the Aga Kaga would say, 'Ugliness is the best safeguard of virginity.'"





End of Project Gutenberg's The Desert and the Stars, by Keith Laumer

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DESERT AND THE STARS ***

***** This file should be named 61285.txt or 61285.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/2/8/61285/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
