The Project Gutenberg EBook of Threlkeld's Daughter, by James Bell

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Threlkeld's Daughter

Author: James Bell

Release Date: February 15, 2020 [EBook #61414]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THRELKELD'S DAUGHTER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         THRELKELD'S DAUGHTER

                             BY JAMES BELL

             She was only a space captain's daughter--and
              all she wanted was a human to call her own!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Worlds of If Science Fiction, September 1963.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Night was a diamond studded dream from where they sat. The moon was a
maiden on wing suggesting amorous flight. Inside the stuffiness of the
celluloid-like vehicle there was absolutely no hint of discomfort or
absurd misfittings--despite the fact that Threlkeld and his daughter
were now shaped out of all proportions to the conveyor itself.

"You seem unusually drawn," Threlkeld suggested from his prone position
on the floor of the craft.

Gelerie took a deep, sensual sigh. "It is the pill, I am sure."

"Look at you," Threlkeld muttered, "and look at me--we're perhaps the
most unique imitation of humans the galaxy has ever produced."

Again there was a maddening silence ... maddening to Threlkeld. "My
daughter," he said at length, disturbed, "I must remind you of the
importance of this little mission. My entire career with the inter-star
patrol depends on how well we function."

Gelerie was bent in a heap near the tapering nose of the pod-shaped
vehicle as it hurtled past the lovely moon, headlong toward a giant
green and purple planet below them. Hurtled in a vessel with no manual
controls, a vessel grown in a government garden on another world ...
catapulted on a very special assignment to a planet that neither grew
missiles nor thought of launching them without myriads of mechanical
wires, dials and blinker lights.

Now Threlkeld was filled with indignation. "Gelerie, I command you--"

"Yes, Father. You command me," she drawled.

"Unless you remain attentive, my daughter, we may fail. Failing, I must
concede that I have finally grown too old for spatial duty, and be sent
to the Home. Do you want that?"

Gelerie had acquired all the attributes of a beautiful, buxom Earth
girl. She looked up in the soft light that glowed its phosphorous
loveliness from the very walls of the seed pod they occupied. Threlkeld
muttered, "Such beauty--it is beyond all that the textbooks described."

Now Gelerie butted in, "The trouble, my father, is simple. The
transition pills--"

"What about them?"

"They do more than convert us from a six-footed tree-hanging creature
of the Alpha Centauri group. They impose upon us the same emotional
stress of the human. You know, father, I have been changed into
leopards, rhinos and snoquallimie eels before; but always I retained
my own natural traits--the love of trees, the desire to return to my
native form and habitat as quickly as possible. But this time, I feel
demure and attractive and extremely vain and--"

"I warn you, my daughter. I am old. I have seen these Earth types at
work. They are a useless breed. Their extra-curricular activities are
beyond all reason. Very few of them stick to what is really important.
Very few of them understand that achievement of the goal is the only
thing there is. Now, I suggest you fight off these emotions. Try not to
succumb to human frailties, for we have an important job to do--lest
your poor father be put out to pasture."

       *       *       *       *       *

The sound of empty space beside them was almost unnoticeable. The
swish, so familiar for such speeds near their own planetary chain far
out in the universe, was now missing.

As they approached the Earth, a thin crescent of daylight appeared to
their right.

"Father," Gelerie said, "I cannot help myself. I am in love with this
Earth form. I have this--this deep sense of beauty, of love, of desire.
I cannot seem to quell it."

Threlkeld tried to help her with logic. "Homekind gave us the pills for
a brief mission. I have lived long enough not to desire these human
qualities. You are much younger and have much more to learn. Homekind
devised these pills for but one purpose--you are to lure a young man of
your choosing into our vehicle. He will then be transported home, and
your father will have his old job back on the ferry to Betelgeuse. Do
not fail me, Gelerie."

A bright, mercury-like flood of daylight appeared, and Threlkeld
explained to her that it was light from the Earth's source of life,
the solar body they had passed. He explained that Homekind was now
selecting by remote control their landing site.

The pod now skittered through the skies, safely avoiding other space
craft which Earth might have sent up.

Threlkeld's mind left his daughter and consumed the view below them.
A grand chasm of blue-green, an ocean. Strips of sand here and there
along a vast continental shelf. Thick vegetation on the continent.
An excess of river inlets. All important bearings on their location
should they need to call home for help. He observed the scene with
satisfaction.

And then they were slowing to a snail's pace, and Homekind was
selecting a clearing in the sand along the shore of a river. Then the
seed pod, its shape so much like that of the zephyr of Earth, twisted
whirlybird fashion to the ground. Threlkeld lifted the rear of the
container, and stiffly the two Earth imitations stepped out.

"Now we roll the vehicle into the trees." They carefully gathered
sticks and bramble from the water's edge and made a natural pile of
debris in front of the pod, so that anyone glancing its way would
never see the brownish green vehicle for other than was intended to be
seen--a mound of dried clay.

"Now where are we, father?" Gelerie asked, as she stretched herself
into shape.

"We are but ten miles from the city harbor. We will skirt the
riverbank for a boat. Homekind left nothing untended--which is why
you--"

"Why I must not fail," she replied drily. "I know. I must not fail. But
I must be allowed to enjoy my Earth form for a while. It is beautiful."
She looked him squarely in the eye. "It _is_ beautiful, is it not,
father? Am I not more beautiful than you have ever seen me?"

"Homekind makes recordings of our conversations, my daughter ... as it
is psychiatrically right that they should. And in their analyses, I
do not want them to have to ever say that Threlkeld succumbed to the
skin-deep world of the Earth people. I must warn you again, Gelerie,"
he went on, "that Earth people base nearly all of their existence,
their plans, their hopes on how attractive they may be, how young or
how old they may look, how withered their skin. For they live chiefly
for vanity, very little else."

The way Gelerie sighed told him he had failed. "One thing more,
my daughter," he said in another attempt. "Homekind made you that
attractive merely for the purpose of luring this male Earth creature
into our conveyor. Now can you do it? Will you keep your mind on your
task?"

Gelerie said, "Where will you be, father?"

"I will make the selection for you. Then I will transfer my mind into
yours, just to make certain you complete your task."

The girl was lost again in self-appraisal. She extended her supple
human arms and legs and observed them almost lovingly. "I like the
short garments they wear. Such beauty should never be hidden."

"Homekind arranged it that way with a definite purpose in mind.
Remember that," he said, now trotting ahead to find some sign of a
boat. He was about to give up, afraid to admit Homekind might have
erred, when Gelerie shrieked, "Look--over that way. A leafboat."

A warm sense of thanks went out from Threlkeld silently. He led the way
to the large blue-green leaf that lay flat upon the water, stiffened
with wax, water-resistant, entirely buoyant. They pulled it close and
stepped aboard.

There was no need for paddles, since a modified leafboat constructed
by Homekind and transported by Homekind always naturally had built-in
propulsion. Tiny molecules of water were converted along the underside
of the leaf into a moderate amount of energy which shoved them forward
under Homekind's magnetic command toward a collection of tall glass
spires.

"Remember, Gelerie," Threlkeld said to the dreaming girl who let her
hand dangle in the waters of Earth, "my future is at stake. You are a
six-footed tree-hanging creature. You will return to your native form
the moment our mission is completed. Now I will not warn you again.
Another moody spell and we return to the vehicle with only one thing
assured--Threlkeld the Great's impending retirement."

But if he expected an assurance out of Gelerie that she would not
fail, he was wrong, for she did not respond.

       *       *       *       *       *

They abandoned the leaf boat as the foot of a sign, which in their
compact Earth-translation scheme provided by one milligram of the pill
they had taken, said, Forty-second Street. They scaled the elevated
structures with almost natural animal precision and carefully dodged
the ground vehicles that sped toward them on ramps. Then they were on
the premises of their destination. A large white building touching the
sky, and beside it a curved, oblong structure which Threlkeld whispered
contained Earth's government.

"He is to be a diplomat?" she asked.

"Sh," he said, as people hurried past them, turning to inspect
Gelerie's brief toggery.

They ascended a ramp to the glassed foyer. Then they were inside,
gaping at the height of the ceiling, at the overhanging balconies.
A young woman with Oriental qualities approached them. "May I be of
assistance?"

"Oh, Father," Gelerie said, fascinated at the human voice.

"We wish," Threlkeld began guardedly, "to speak with the youngest
member of the world government--"

"That would be the Congo, sir."

"Not nation. Individual staff member. Person. Human. Youngest in
years," Threlkeld explained.

"Twenty-one is generally as young as anyone is allowed--as clerks and
aides, sir. That would be the minimum age. Diplomatic corpsmen are
usually considerably older."

"Very well. The nearest and youngest of the aides."

"I can think of Monsieur Joffrion of France or Sahib Masher of Arabia."

Threlkeld was now weeding out difficulties. Homekind had given them
access to one language only. "Someone who speaks the language I am
speaking."

The girl frowned. "Sir, you do not know what language you speak?"

A bolt of fear shot through Threlkeld's earth stomach. "Of course I
know. The point is, do you know?"

"English," the frustrated guide said. "Very well, I will secure Mr.
Twitty of the British delegation. Come this way, sir, madam."

Threlkeld forced a deep intake of oxygen. He smiled at Gelerie and
they followed the girl to an elevator. When they alighted, they were
escorted down a hall to the doorway marked, _Delegation of the United
Kingdom_.

Then the guide turned to Threlkeld and said, "I have instructions to
learn the nature of your mission before introducing you, sir."

Threlkeld had hoped it would not come to this. But better to tell the
girl than foil the chance now. "I want the young man to fall in love
with my daughter. Then I am going to kidnap him and whisk him off to a
faraway planet." There, he had said it. Homekind had told him to say
it if necessary. The truth would be the one thing the Earthlings would
never believe, they had told him.

The Oriental girl laughed and said, "Sir, I admit defeat. Mr. Twitty
will have to take it from here." She stuck her head inside the door
and whistled softly.

"Pip, pip, Yu-lin," came the juvenile voice of the young man inside.
"What's the bother, old girl?"

"A man and his daughter to see you."

"And the nature of their visit?"

"They want you to fall in love with the beautiful girl, and then
her father will escort you on a nice honeymoon to some love spot in
romantic night sky." As Yu-lin spoke, she turned her bright oriental
eyes to Threlkeld and winked.

Threlkeld felt his blood rush hot. In a mental transit to his daughter,
he said, "I think it high time I transferred my mind to you. You need
all the moral stamina you can get, and I see the power these Earthlings
have on the opposite sex. It is not good. Prepare the cavity of your
brain," he instructed, and seeing that Gelerie was a million light
years away, Threlkeld made the mind-switch alone and aimed his body at
a door marked _Men's Room_. Soon it disappeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

The young Earthman rushed forward, unconcerned with the internal
workings of Threlkeld, fiddling with his frog glasses and blinking
as if he did not see well. Gelerie saw that he was thin, tall,
sandy-haired and extremely good looking. Her heart pounded and
Threlkeld's mind said, "Watch out." The young man smiled and extended
his hand to Gelerie. "You'll have to forgive the guide, madam. She
sometimes gets carried away. I am Twitty of the U.K. So glad to have
you aboard."

A nudge somewhere near Gelerie's brain awakened her. "I am afraid I am
here for a very strange reason--the very reason Yu-lin stated. I want
you to fall in love with me."

Twitty replaced his glasses. "I think I'll go back and come out again.
My dear, you are a lovely creature, but back home I am engaged to a
girl who won three local beauty contests on the way to the title of
Miss Britain."

"And did she win Miss Britain?"

Twitty's mouth dropped. "What are you trying to say?"

"I am trying to say, sir, leave your Miss Britain who did not quite
make it and fly away with me to Alpha Centauri--"

"Oh, come now," Twitty said laughing. "In that brief toggery you expect
me to believe you are some moon maiden from a midsummer night's dream
and go wandering with you through loveland in the sky? Go back to your
fairy tale, Miss--"

"Gelerie."

"Gelerie what?"

"Gelerie is all they gave me in the Alpha Centauri group. We have a
home-grown vehicle waiting in the woods. And a leafboat at the foot of
Forty-second Street to carry us under its own power to the site of the
vehicle. We covered the vehicle with driftwood to protect it lest some
Earthling should swipe it and Homekind be forced to grow us another."

Twitty called over his shoulder. "Brighton? Take over for a little
while. I shall return by and by." But the allure of the woman creature
in short pants was drawing him near. "May I see this thing in the
woods?"

"Of course," she said, and she could feel the mental smile of Threlkeld
inside her brain as it seemed to take a deep, relieved breath.

They descended the elevator and come out at the main exit. Twitty
bolted forward and grabbed a guard by the arm. "Sir, I wish you to
arrest this woman on suspicion as an alien from outer space or a
candidate for Bellevue."

A burly guard with a kind face looked into Gelerie's eyes. Now her
father's brain was at anxiety's peak, calling the plays. "Go ahead,
double your fingers into a fist, shove it forward, now, under his jaw--"

"But--" Gelerie was stammering.

"No buts!" Threlkeld's internal instructions poured. "When Homekind
made you beautiful, my dear, they also made you big. You are an Amazon."

"Amazon?"

"No time to explain," he said. "Let the bruiser have one!"

Gelerie shrugged and took a swing. The arms of the guard shot skyward,
and the big, hulking body in uniform fell backwards and plopped against
the floor. As he rose up, shouting, Gelerie grabbed the slim Mr. Twitty
around the waist, lifted him bodily and ran like a sudden gale through
the lobby, out the door, down the ramp and to the river. With an
Olympic leap, she made it to the stable, sturdy leafboat.

       *       *       *       *       *

On orders from Homekind the craft quietly slid toward the trysting
place. Gelerie was aware of a flood of congratulations from her father
in her brain.

Twitty was red with humiliation. "You know, of course, they will be
flying over us momentarily. You'll be courtmartialed, or whatever it
is they do to the American kidnapers of international diplomatic corps
persons."

"You don't like me," Gelerie pouted. "I came all the way from Alpha
Centauri to take you home with me and you don't even as much as like
me."

The young Englishman lifted Gelerie's chin and studied her tears. "By
jove, they are not crocodilian. I believe you are serious. You are
innocent and serious... strong, of course, but innocent."

"I love you. I want no one but you," she said.

"I can see there would be an advantage in a fellow my size having a
wife your size," he said reflectively. "But Babs would never approve."

Gelerie shrugged her broad shoulders. She hugged herself lovingly.
"Babs can always get another fellow. I'll never be able to get another
guy."

"Why? Are you planning to resign from the human race?"

"That's exactly it," she agreed. "However, if I get you to come back
with me, Homekind may consent to my staying in the human form and
living with you the rest of my life."

Twitty laughed. "Boys, come and get me," he muttered at the sky.
Threlkeld stayed on guard mentally, and Gelerie depressed into a
morose, human activity known as sinking one's head into one's knees.

The U.K. man's laugh turned abruptly to awe when he saw the helicopter
flutter over them and land on a spot of riverbank just ahead. Vaguely
he could see military pilots, and two civilians hop out and run for the
woods. He watched with disturbed concern as the leafboat made a sharp
right turn of its own volition and headed for the bank.

Now Gelerie arose, picked him up by the waist and carried him bodily
toward the gathering. The militia were uncovering the seed pod.

"Twitty," one of the men called. "What in heaven's name is she doing to
you?"

"You'll never guess," he fumed. "She's taking me to Alpha Centauri."

"You don't mean it!" his crony replied. "Whatever will Babs think?"

The military men ran back to the group. "Cadogan, sir. I believe you'd
better come look. That clay mound behind all the rubble. It is just
like the old man said it would be."

Gelerie looked and saw her father at the vehicle. She raced forward
with Twitty scratching and kicking.

Cadogan said, "We found the old man wandering aimlessly. We asked him
to show us where he came from. He kept pointing until we landed here.
He has an excellent memory, but something has control of him. Something
very sinister and weird, Twitty."

Inside, Gelerie was getting a strong command from Threlkeld. "Get
close, much closer. How can I effect a transit until you come within
the required distance?"

She thought-replied, "Well, get out of the pod so I can see you."

"No! Get inside quickly. Homekind is ready whenever we are. Bring
Twitty in with you and we'll be away!"

Now the military men and Cadogan were clearing away the debris, half
stumbling, half confused. "Get the girl. Don't let her get in that
thing. No matter how absurd their story, don't let her get aboard
that--that seed pod!"

"Amazon," Threlkeld yelled. "Amazon, Amazon, Amazon! Gelerie--"

       *       *       *       *       *

At that, Gelerie dropped Twitty and began swinging with both fists. She
laid out two helicopter pilots and a civilian. She retrieved Twitty and
her father said, "Now, get the devil in this pod so I can transfer back
to the body! Then we can revert to type. I said get the devil in the
pod so--"

"No!"

"Gelerie," his voice stormed, shattering her peace of mind.

"No. If we go back to Alpha," she said, "I'll be a six-legged amphibian
and Twitty will be a handsome human. He won't even know me!"

Twitty looked at her. "Wh-who are you addressing?"

From inside the voice thundered on. "Think of your father, who has
worked all his life for you! Just one more assignment with inter-star
patrol. Even ferry duty will suffice. Please let me have my specimen
and my body. Gelerie! Please go inside the seed pod. Homekind will kill
me in hours if I fail."

Gelerie held Twitty at a distance. "I can't do it. I can't leave him."

"Then bring him with you. What I keep telling you we came for--"

"Not as human-animal versus animal-animal," she said. "I love him. I
can't harm him."

"In the ship, Gelerie! For your old Daddy. Inside, girl. In--"

Gelerie was now close enough to permit her father's mind to transit.
From inside he spoke aloud, "Well, thank Homekind for that! Now get in
and we'll be off."

"What about one of the others?" she said, now pointing at the three men
who lay unconscious at her feet.

"That would be fine," Threlkeld replied. "Just toss Twitty in the drink
and bring Cadogan. He looks like good stock."

Twitty was suddenly stricken with fright. If he never believed before,
he believed now. "No. Cadogan has a wife and children. Don't take
him--take me, I'm unmarried."

"Well," Threlkeld said, "now it's all solved. Get on board, Gelerie."

"No, father. If I do that, I still become less than Twitty. Homekind
does not respect love affairs between separate types."

"Nor does it allow its missionaries to remain in the arena after the
battle is won. Gelerie, face it if you stay here you'll revert to type
the instant I leave."

Gelerie turned Twitty loose. She bent low and looked through the
opening of the vehicle at her father. "Do you think Homekind would do
that other thing?" She said it so Twitty would not guess right off.

"Nonsense. It would defeat the whole purpose of the mission," Threlkeld
said. "They want a human specimen. Taking him home and turning him
into one of us would not give them any new thing to study. You'll have
to do better than that."

"I meant here. Make him one of our kind and let him stay here."

Threlkeld said, "Only if you can produce some human to take his place."

Gelerie thought a moment. "What is the time limit on this mission?"

"A year, Earth time. Two years at the outside."

"And the period of human gestation?"

"Nine months, ten days and--what gives?"

"I shall marry Twitty, give Homekind a human specimen--my own--in nine
months and ten days. You tell Homekind of my plan. Let them hear the
recording. Then return and be with me. I shall, one hour very soon,
invite Twitty to sojourn with me on the completion of this mission,
father. I guarantee you, Homekind be with me, he will not want to see
me go the rest of the way alone."

Threlkeld said, "My daughter's mind is full of strange logic, but it
makes good sense. But be extremely careful my dear. The human is a
deceitful thing. He will kiss your lips while stabbing your back."

Gelerie turned to Twitty and said, "How would you like to have six legs
and swing from the tree by your tail?"

She turned and spoke, "See, father? He faints so readily. He will be
quite easily handled." But her human eyes had not adjusted perfectly
to Earth's thick atmosphere. She suddenly did not see the vehicle
containing her father. Then, far beyond the clouds of sunset, she
detected a small dot sailing off into the deep blue, its side
reflecting gold. "Farewell for now, my father," she whispered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Turning to the helicopter, she carried three subdued men and placed
them aboard. Then she lifted Twitty softly to her shoulders and
muttered. "Homekind, fly me to their quarters. I am weary for the
moment and do not feel like operating the controls."

The copter lifted silently, swinging out over the East River. Though
cramped, Gelerie found a place beside her for Twitty.

When he had stopped shaking, she whistled softly as the Oriental girl
had and kissed him as an Amazon might.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Threlkeld's Daughter, by James Bell

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THRELKELD'S DAUGHTER ***

***** This file should be named 61414.txt or 61414.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/4/1/61414/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
