The Project Gutenberg EBook of If You're Smart--, by Colin Keith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: If You're Smart--

Author: Colin Keith

Release Date: February 24, 2020 [EBook #61498]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IF YOU'RE SMART-- ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          "IF YOU'RE SMART--"

                            By Colin Keith

          Seems a pretty obvious crack for a business sharper
           to make to an inventor. "If you're so smart, why
            don't you make some money yourself?" Maybe so.
            But this scientist had an even better answer--

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Astounding Science-Fiction April 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"If you're so damn smart, why ain't you rich?"

That hoary wisecrack must have been all of three centuries old when
Wolf Carmichael pulled it on Dr. Claud Kellog. The Wolf of Saturn
loved it and used it often. That day he lay back in his swivel chair,
chuckling offensively somewhere in the fatty depths of his triple chin,
as he threw it. But his roving, piggish eyes showed no mirth. They
were hard and scheming, the ruthless eyes that had made him master
of all commerce and industry throughout the Saturnian system. To his
money-grubbing mentality, this question was the ultimate in triumphant
repartee.

"A scholar named Archimedes was asked that question once," replied Dr.
Kellog, flushing angrily, "and to prove he could be rich if he wished,
he knocked off his important mathematical researches long enough to buy
up all the wine presses in the country. It was winter, then, but when
the next fall came the vintners had to have their presses back or else
lose the grape crop. Archimedes made a tidy profit."

"Never heard of him," snorted Carmichael. "Musta been some little
fellow on Venus. If he was a real big shot in the booze racket, he'd be
on the board of Interplanetary Distillers. He aint."

Carmichael threw away the stump of the cigar he was smoking and lit
another.

"To get back to this gadget of yours," he resumed indifferently. "Maybe
it's as good as you say, maybe not. But George Carmichael was always
the boy to give a struggling inventor a chance--"

Kellog winced. Yeah. Wolf would back anything that promised sure profit
and no loss--provided he was given control.

"--so here's what I'm willing to do. Your proposition to have me lend
you enough to get your machines built is out--the machines might
flop, then where'd I be? What we'll do is this--incorporate your
whatchamacallit--"

"Antichron."

"Antichron, huh? We'll incorporate it first, then put it into
production. I get fifty-five percent of the stock for promotion fee,
we sell twenty to the public for working capital, and all the rest is
yours. See?"

Kellog saw. It was a typical Carmichael proposition. Kellog would
furnish the work and brains, the sucker public the money. If the
venture failed, Carmichael couldn't be hurt; if it succeeded, he would
rake in the lion's share. Kellog reached for his hat and jammed it on
his head.

"That's pure burglary, Mr. Carmichael," he said fairly evenly,
mustering all his powers of self-restraint. "I'll see you in hell
first."

"Tut, tut, my boy," said Carmichael with a repetition of his nasty
chuckle, "how fiery you are! That's bad. You should never mix emotion
with business. Take me. Am I offended? No. I'll be here tomorrow, and
the day after that, and the day after that, ready to do business with
you. You'll come back--they always do."

Kellog only glared at him, then strode from the room, boiling at the
arrogance of the grasping capitalist. And as he angrily made his way
down the main street of Saturnport, everything he saw added to his
rage--and to his gloom, too. For every enterprise of any magnitude
on Titan, or on any of the other Saturnian satellites, was owned or
controlled by Carmichael. The list was an imposing one. Carmichael was
the president of the Titanic Trust Co., the only bank. He owned the
Saturnport Supply Co. and Titan Shipyards outright. He had a fat finger
in Rhean Ranches, Miman Mines, Titan Radio Power, the Dione angrauk
packeries, and the ruby pits on Enceladus. What burned up Kellog the
most was Trans-Saturnian Lighter Service.

That line of small intersatellite freighters had been established and
built by his father, years before. It supplied a much-needed service,
for the great interplanetary ships stopped only at Saturnport. The
little lighters carried the slaughtered angrauks from Rhea to the
packeries of Dione, and thence to the big port. They hauled ores from
the mines of Mimas to the smelters on Titan, and did other chores of
the kind. Carmichael saw it was a profitable line and tried to buy
into it. The elder Kellog resisted. Carmichael shut down his mines for
a year, cutting off important revenue. A quarantine on angrauks was
mysteriously promulgated; taxes on intersatellite shipping increased.
The bank called Kellog's notes. His lighter service was forced into
bankruptcy.

"And Carmichael bought it for a song," muttered Doc, bitterly, "had the
new taxes repealed and the quarantine rescinded. It broke dad's heart."

That was the way the Wolf of Saturn did things. Honeyed words, cash
advances, at first, anything for a foothold. Then squeeze, squeeze
until the enterprise was his. Now that he had the colonies of the
Saturnian system well under his thumb, he was branching out into larger
fields. He had ambitions of going back to the Earth one day and taking
his place among the mighty in Wall Street, where the Systemic Stock
Exchange was. He wanted to lock horns with such magnates as Aalman,
head of Venus Exploitation, Inc., and chairman of the board of the
Tellurian Master Bank. He wanted a bigger say-so in the operation of
the Interplanetary Transport Co. and a directorship on Etherways, the
planets' communication system. Therefore, when he was not in his office
at the Carmichael Building, he could be found in the brokerage office
of Neville & Beardsley, trading fiercely in securities, trying to match
wits with Aalman and the other tycoons.

Doc Kellog knew all that and knew how hopeless his fight was. Yet that
illiterate taunt still rang in his ears. He was smart, but he wasn't
rich. There must be something wrong with his approach to things. Other
men with half his brains got along and prospered; why couldn't he? That
thought was uppermost in his mind when he reached his laboratory.

"What luck, Doc?" asked cheery Billy Wade, his chief assistant.

"The usual," growled Kellog. "He wants to hog the show, otherwise no
dice. I told him to go to hell."

"Swell," grinned Billy Wade, admiringly, "but where do we get off? Fold
up and get jobs somewhere?"

"Maybe." Doc Kellog's anger had cooled somewhat and dejection had
succeeded it. But he was not quite ready to surrender. The memory of
that sneering challenge still rankled. Kellog sat down and stared at
the floor in deep thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

Things looked black. The single model of his antichron worked
perfectly. It had proved that his theory was correct. He could warp
space-time, given power enough, and bring all the planets together,
just as centuries before the introduction of telegraph and radio
brought all the countries of the Earth together. But his money was
gone, his bills mounting, and he was forced to deal with interlocking
monopolies for all his supplies, power and credit. Carmichael knew that
as well as he did and was waiting for the plum to drop in his lap.
Kellog knew that Carmichael would fight him tooth and nail unless he
cut him in. And that Kellog was resolved not to do.

He had never thought of his invention in terms of money before, but
rather in terms of the immense boon it would be to all humanity, taking
it for granted that his own compensation would be just and adequate.
But now he was racking his brain for a way to turn it into money--lots
of money--and quickly. He had exhausted all his own resources in
building the one model he had, and the power bills were eating him
up. If they were not paid by the end of the week, Titan Power would
attach his laboratory and its contents, which was the same as saying
Carmichael would.

Antichron--what were its chief virtues? What could he cash in on
_now_? For he must not only save what he had, but construct other
machines to introduce to the public. He sat up and looked at his model
thoughtfully. It was a clumsy-looking device, a monster machine taking
up the whole side of the room. Its main feature was a six-foot-square
crystal window, framed by shiny steel panels studded with knobs, dials,
glowing tubes, buttons and cranks. The crystal resembled an ordinary
televise scanner of the type used by Etherways, except that it was
thicker and double-faced. Whatever form of energy, whether heat,
electricity or light, impinged on one face was immediately transmitted
to the other. Where it differed from the standard models was that
its two faces could be split apart when subjected to antichronic
stresses, and separated by any number of millions of miles. But the
same antichronic stresses also created a warp in space-time so that
the interval seemed not to exist. It was a window that with the proper
manipulations of its complex controls could be made to look upon any
spot in the universe and receive energy impulse from it _then_.

That "then" was its great virtue. Long before space travel was an
actuality, mathematicians had known that there was no such thing as
simultaneity. Time, like space, was relative. They had had their first
practical demonstration of it when they tried to use two-way television
between the Earth and Moon. Radio waves took a little over a second to
travel each way. A man would speak, then wait for two seconds before
his answer began coming back to him. Later, that time lag became almost
intolerable. From Callisto it was three quarters of an hour--you
activated the machine, waited forty or so minutes for it to light up,
and then you waited an equal period for the inquiring face looking at
you to register understanding and begin his reply. Obviously, where
an hour and a half intervened between question and answer, sprightly
conversation was impossible. The antichron would cure that. With the
space between warped out of existence, instantaneous response could be
had.

"Why ain't I rich, huh?" repeated Kellog, sourly, and began thinking
on how men got rich. Not by inventing useful things or hard work,
necessarily. He thought of Carmichael's career, and Aalman's, and
those of others. They had one common denominator--they were men who
bought and sold, bought cheap and sold dear. And where did they find
their sellers and buyers? Why, on the Stock Exchange, of course.
Kellog's eyes lit up and he almost trembled with excitement as the full
implications of that chance thought dawned upon him. He jumped up and
called Wade to him.

"How much money have we?" he asked excitedly.

Billy Wade pulled out a wallet and squinted at its contents.

"There's about a thousand here of my own and the three thousand you
gave me to keep for the power bill."

"Willing to gamble?"

Wade just grinned and handed over the money.

"Quick, now. Grab the current 'Ephemerides' and find the Earth's
present position and rate of relative movement. Then look up the exact
latitude and longitude of the lower tip of Manhattan Island--that's in
New York."

Kellog ran over to the antichron and began setting the dials as
Wade called out the figures. Then he threw a master switch and the
machine hummed into activity. In a moment the screen was glowing, then
transparent. It was as if Kellog were looking out of a window high
over a green park surrounded on three sides by water. He adjusted the
mechanism and caused the projected screen to lower itself to a great
sprawling building that lay below. He forced it through a wall, and
there he was--looking in on the trading floor of the nerve center of
the Solar System, the Systemic Stock Exchange!

Thousands of men were milling about beneath, gesticulating and
shouting. At the other end of the vast hall an immense annunciator
board stood, on which names and numbers appeared. A flickering screen
beside it was displaying news flashes.

"A notebook! Hurry!" exclaimed Doc Kellog. He jotted down quotations
as he watched. Callistan Radioactives was high and climbing--a sale
at 423-1/2, then another at 428, then at 430-1/4. A flash came over
the screen saying Martian Gems had passed its dividend. Martian Gems
promptly dropped twelve points. Etherways and I. P. T. were strong. The
market generally was strong.

"Let her run," Doc shouted, shoving the book into his pocket. "Damn
the power bill. If I'm right, it won't matter; if I'm wrong, it won't
matter either. I'll be seeing you."

Then he was out and gone, hurrying to Neville & Beardsley.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Neville took the money, but he looked at the young scientist
dubiously.

"Small margin accounts are dangerous," he warned. "We accept them, but
we don't solicit them. Those wolves out there will take the shirt off
your back so quick it will make your head swim."

"Fair enough," answered Kellog cheerfully. "As a matter of fact, I am
in the market for a few wolfskins myself. Here, buy me some Callistan
Radioactives and sell some Martian Gems; all you can for the money."

Neville grunted disapprovingly, but took the money. Nobody but an
ignorant fool would sell Martian short, and Callistan was no bargain
above 400. Kellog went on into the board room and sat down behind the
group of local capitalists who were scanning the board in a listless,
bored way. Kellog had a hard time restraining his elation, for the
figures on the board they were looking at were ancient history to him.
His information was over an hour ahead of it. After a while he got up
and phoned Wade from a booth.

"Read me the latest dope," he said. Then listened as Wade gave him the
quotations. Martian had stopped falling; there was a flurry in Oberon
Metals. He hung up and stopped at Neville's desk on the way back to his
chair.

"Cover that Martian sale, then buy me some Oberon."

Neville blinked. Oberon had been inactive for days. But he noticed
Kellog had doubled his money on the Martian transaction, and had a nice
paper profit on his Callistan stock.

"Beginner's luck," he cautioned, as he filed the order.

When Kellog got the day's close from Wade, he closed out his line. It
was not a bad day's work. His cash balance on Neville's books was over
fourteen thousand. He left it there; tomorrow was another day.

The next day he ran the fourteen thousand up to forty-five. The day
after that he finished up with a couple of hundred. He drew enough of
it to pay the power bill, then walked on to the booking office of Titan
General Shops.

"Last week," said Kellog to the clerk, "I left an order here for some
parts for a special televise machine--"

"It's N. G.," said the insolent clerk. "Credit disapproved."

"I've got the money now," added Kellog. But the clerk shook his head
and walked away. Over his shoulder he flung:

"You gotta get Wolf's O. K. He stopped it--personally."

"Oh," said Kellog. So he wouldn't be permitted to develop his invention
on Titan _even_ if he had money! Carmichael held the reins--the supply
house, the shops, the power plant, transportation. Kellog walked slowly
back to his laboratory, thinking on the way what his next step would be.

The following day he had better luck. When he looked from his antichron
onto the clamoring mob of Wall Street brokers he knew at once that
something unusual was afoot. Pandemonium reigned, and often awed faces
would turn to stare up at the quotation board with its ever-changing
symbols of good and bad news. Kellog read the last bulletin hurriedly.

"Following the suicide early this morning of Charles Bean, general
manager of Venus Exploitation, rumors persist that the company's
billion-dollar investment in mimil plantations has had to be written
off as a total loss. The stock opened at 240, but fell off over a
hundred points in the first few minutes of trading. The last sale was
at 97--"

Kellog waited, tense. He watched Exploitation sink rapidly to 60, 50,
then 40. A gong rang and the screen lighted up again.

"A correction to the last bulletin," it said. "President Aalman
has made a statement. He says that Bean's suicide was due entirely
to domestic difficulties. The mimil venture has been tremendously
successful. So much so that the board of directors announce a one
hundred percent stock dividend and an equal amount in cash. He further
states that he will buy personally all the stock that is offered under
500."

At once the tumult on the floor increased to a howling typhoon of sound
as the brokers suddenly reversed their position and began hunting
sellers as fervidly as they had previously been hunting buyers.
The bidding was wild, leaping by bounds to ever-higher figures.
Exploitation rose from its depths like a soaring skyrocket--up into the
hundreds, past the five-hundred mark of Aalman's bid, on to a thousand
and upward.

Another gong. Another announcement.

"It is apparent that an effort is being made to corner Venus
Exploitation. The Exchange authorities have ordered, dealings in the
stock suspended. Speculators short of stock may settle at the rate of
two thousand dollars per share."

"Wow!" yelled Doc Kellog, and a moment later he was burning up the road
to Neville & Beardsley.

       *       *       *       *       *

The board room was crowded when he got there. All the big shots of
Titan were present, not excepting Carmichael. There was sheer panic
in the faces of some as they stared at the earlier bulletins, for
Exploitation represented a heavy investment for most of them. Even
Wolf's usually expressionless face showed concern as he saw his spare
millions dwindle to half and less. He was so intent on following the
damning figures that he did not notice the entrance of Kellog, or that
he sat down beside him in the chair vacated by a haggard man who had
just rushed despairingly from the room.

"It's more of Aalman's skulduggery, the pirate!" growled Carmichael to
the fellow sitting on the other side. "He's looted the company, that's
what. We're stuck. I'm getting out while I can."

He wrote an order and beckoned to Neville.

"The hell of it is," Wolf added, to his crafty-looking partner, "that
while this order is getting to New York, the stock will drop forty
points more. Damn that time lag!"

Neville approached, bowed respectfully, and took the order. He looked
at it, then remarked:

"This is for more than you own. Are you taking a short position?"

"Right! The stuff's wallpaper. When Aalman milks 'em, they stay milked.
Tomorrow I can cover at three. Get rid of this--quick."

Neville bowed again and turned away. Kellog plucked him by the sleeve.
He had sneaked a look at the order. The amount he had on balance would
margin it.

"I'll take that--at the current price," he whispered. "You needn't send
it to New York."

"You're crazy," said Neville, but he noted the order.

Kellog sat back and waited, gloating. In a few minutes the news would
come through that the market had reversed itself. He had made a
brilliant double play. If Carmichael's selling order had gone through
in the regular way, when it hit New York his stock would have brought
him hundreds of dollars a share; conversely, if his own buying order
had, he would have had to pay the corresponding price. As it was, he
got Carmichael's stock at 43, close to the bottom, and for it Wolf
received but 43.

"Whipsawed!" Carmichael yelled when Aalman's bullish statement was
broadcast. "The dirty rattlesnake. He started the rumors to depress the
stock; now he's buying it in at a bargain. Neville! Cancel my selling
orders."

Neville was late in coming. In the meantime the later flash showed on
the screen--the one telling of suspension of trading and the penalties
levied on short-sellers.

"Sorry, sir," said Neville, as placatingly as possible, "but it is
already executed. You said quick, so I disposed of it locally."

Carmichael snorted and looked about him.

"What fool--" he began, but Neville simply said, "The gentleman on your
right."

Carmichael glared at Kellog. Kellog glared right back.

"You!" howled Wolf, his porcine eyes incredulous.

"Me," grinned Kellog. "You owe me five thousand shares of Exploitation,
I believe. I want it."

Carmichael sputtered and gazed questioningly at Neville. It must be a
joke--this silly upstart of a scientist holding the whip hand over him.
Why, only a few days before he had come whining to his office for the
loan of a miserable few thousand. Now he was demanding ten million.
Preposterous!

"If you haven't the cash, I'll settle for a deed to Titan Shops, lock,
stock and barrel," offered Kellog smoothly, but he could not conceal
the triumph in his eyes. "I am rather anxious to get a little job done
there, but up to now they haven't been very ... uh ... co-operative."

Carmichael grunted like a prodded boar, frowning. He was in a tight
spot; he knew it. He had to settle and he did not have the cash.
Moreover, it hurt him to give up a property. But there seemed to be no
choice, and he was aware that the other speculators in the room were
watching him closely. He couldn't welsh--not openly.

"Done!" he exploded.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night Kellog took over the Titan General Shops. He and Wade worked
late, laying out the program for the following day. Tomorrow they would
start construction on the first batch of commercial antichrons. But
just at midnight a messenger came, bearing a communication from the
power company. It read:

    You are hereby notified that due to inadequate generating
    facilities, Titan Radio Power finds itself compelled to curtail
    its service. Since our contract to furnish your plant with power
    was made with Mr. George Carmichael personally and not with the
    Titan General Shops, the change of ownership voids it. All service
    will be discontinued within four hours.

"The dirty rat!" blazed Kellog.

"Wolf is the word," corrected Billy Wade with a sigh. "You can't beat
him."

"We'll see," said Kellog grimly. "Let's have a look at the electrical
hook-up here. Maybe we can use antichron in another way."

Neither he nor Wade attempted to sleep that night. They were much too
busy. The machine was retuned and put in search for the New York home
of the general manager of Tellurian Power. They found him, aroused him
and made their proposition. Yes, the Earth plants had unlimited power.
Yes, if Kellog could project a receiving plate into one of Tellurian's
generating plants, its men would connect leads to it. The general
manager doubted whether power could be transmitted from planet to
planet--it had never been done before--but if they would pay for it, he
would send it.

Kellog closed the deal. Then he and Wade went about altering the
antichron for gathering pure current, not light. They marked the back
face to show where the Earthly electrodes should be placed. On the
front they attached their own connections. Those led to the shops. Then
they set the space-time warper to working. In a moment the back face
was gone. No doubt, at that instant, startled engineers were puzzling
over the bizarre outlet that had suddenly appeared in their plant.

"Say," said Billy Wade. "He said unlimited power, didn't he? And the
rate there is a tenth what it is here. Why not peddle some juice on the
side?"

"Right!" yelped Kellog, and he reached for a pad.

                         POWER FOR SALE, CHEAP

    Owing to surplus productive capacity provided by new owners, Titan
    General Shops is in a position to furnish any quantity of power at
    the rate of ten cents a mega-watt hour.

"Get that to the Saturnport _Herald_ to be run in the next edition," he
told Wade.

"This'll wash up Titan Power, if my guess is any good," remarked Wade
cheerfully. "They've been getting away with murder."

"Yep," said Kellog dreamily. Carmichael would have to write off another
asset, for local power could not possibly compete with Tellurian now
that there was a way to transmit it. And the power monopoly was the
biggest plum in Wolf's basket.

In an hour the first surges of energy were coming in from Earth,
flowing from the antichron into the local radio distributing emission
set. The electricians at the plant simply tuned out on Titan Power and
in on the laboratory set. The shift was made.

       *       *       *       *       *

Carmichael did not take the fresh assault upon him lying down. He
promptly went about getting an injunction against the unfranchised
sale of power, but it was several days before he could get it
issued. In the meantime, with the full facilities of the shop at his
disposal, Kellog had completed a batch of sight-sound antichrons for
use in communication. He hired and instructed operators. Then the
machines were focused on the various important planets, satellites and
asteroids. At one stroke Saturnport became the central clearing house
of the Solar System for news. If necessary, a Pluto signal could be
relayed through Titan to Earth in only the time necessary to make the
connections. Etherways was at once ruined. All its equipment was junk,
except for nearby use.

"That ought to hurt," observed Billy Wade, jubilantly. "They say Wolf
had a pile of Etherways Preferred."

"Probably," said Kellog. But he was smarting under the injunction. The
corrupt local court had forbidden the outside sale of power. Not only
that, the Saturnport Council--all creatures of Carmichael--issued an
edict prohibiting the importation of power generated outside of Titan.
This time the shops did have to close down until Kellog could improvise
some old-fashioned magnetic generators of the field-armature type. Not
content with inflicting those inconveniences on Kellog, Carmichael
might be expected next to bring suit for personal damages ensuing
from the collapse of Etherways. Etherways represented the investment
of important money, and the men who lost were not the type who would
console themselves that their company had been replaced by something
incomparably better.

"I've got to go all the way," concluded Kellog, soberly. "If I don't
get him, he'll get me."

Again he put his and Wade's head together and designed a new type of
antichron. It was three-dimensional--a cubical box, to be exact, with
four sides and a bottom, but open at the top. It worked on the same
principle as the flat screen, but with slight variations. It operated
as a shuttle, not continuously.

Kellog put one of his television machines in focus with the mine on
Mimas. Miman Mines was only partly owned by Carmichael; he controlled
the industries on the lesser satellites by virtue of his strangle-hold
on transportation. So the manager was willing to talk to Kellog.

"What do you pay that buccaneer to haul ore to Titan?" asked Kellog.

"Twenty cents a ton."

"I'll haul it for two."

"You can't," objected the manager. "The Trans-Saturnian Lighter
Service's charter says--"

"I know what it says," snapped back Kellog. "My father drew it up.
It confers a perpetual monopoly on all intersatellite _ship-borne_
commerce. Now listen. Clear a place about twenty feet square and
arrange to dump ore in it from twenty feet or more above. Mark it off
with safety lines and don't ever let a man step across the lines. Then
watch my smoke."

He cut the connection long enough to send similar instructions to the
receiving station by the smelter. Then he watched through the antichron
while the preparations were being made at both ends of the line. When
they were ready he turned the machine over to Wade.

Wade sat down and got to work. His job was very much like that of the
operator of a grab bucket. He kept his eyes on the visual screen, his
hands on the controls of the cubical one.

Current!--the empty cube appears on Mimas--an avalanche of ore fills
it--shift current--it disappears from Mimas, appears at the smelter on
Titan--the unloading cradle on which it materializes tips and dumps the
ore--when it is upright again, shift current. Mimas, fill; Titan, dump.
Mimas, fill; Titan, dump. That was all there was to it. Hundreds of
tons a minute, delivered in Titan the day it is mined.

"That shoots Interplanetary Transportation and Trans-Saturnian all to
hell, I should say," drawled the editor of the _Herald_, who had been
invited to watch the demonstration. He was conducting a campaign to
have Carmichael's injunction revoked. Now that the people knew cheap
power was available, they were angry about it. "Yes," continued the
editor, "they're sunk. I'm going to stroll down to the bank and draw
out my balance before the run starts."

"What do you mean?" asked Kellog.

"Plenty. The bank is really a sort of holding company for Wolf. Now
that his companies are all shot, it'll crash. You may not know it yet,
but Carmichael is ruined. He will be a very sick wolf in an hour or so."

       *       *       *       *       *

Who is the Wolf of Saturn? People on Titan will point out a blowzy,
sodden old derelict who hangs out in a dive near the skyport and tell
you that "Carmy," as they call him now, used to wear that title. He was
a big shot once, they say.

But if you should ask any of the frequenters of the big building
on lower Manhattan who the Wolf of Saturn is, they will tell you
instantly. It is a crackpot on Titan by the name of Kellog. He was the
fellow who ruthlessly and without warning wrecked two of the biggest
and most profitable enterprises in the universe--Etherways, Inc., and
Interplanetary Transport--and many of the smartest financiers of the
System with it. What a guy! Not only that, but he wrecked the System's
entire price structure with his cheap services. "Benefactor?" they will
squall. "He's a wild man--a wolf!"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of If You're Smart--, by Colin Keith

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IF YOU'RE SMART-- ***

***** This file should be named 61498.txt or 61498.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/4/9/61498/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
