ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Push of a Finger, by Alfred Bester

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Push of a Finger

Author: Alfred Bester

Release Date: March 3, 2020 [EBook #61551]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PUSH OF A FINGER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         THE PUSH OF A FINGER

                --or a careless word, for that matter,
                 can wreck the entire universe. Think
                 not? Well, if it happened this way--

                           By Alfred Bester

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Astounding Science-Fiction May 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I think it's about time someone got all those stories together and
burned them. You know the kind I mean--X, the mad scientist, wants to
change the world; Y, the ruthless dictator, wants to rule the world; Z,
the alien planet, wants to destroy the world.

Let me tell you a different kind of story. It's about a whole world
that wanted to rule one man--about a planet of people who hunted down
a single individual in an effort to change his life, yes, and even
destroy him, if it had to be. It's a story about one man against the
entire Earth, but with the positions reversed.

They've got a place in Manhattan City that isn't very well known. Not
known, I mean, in the sense that the cell-nucleus wasn't known until
scientists began to get the general idea. This was an undiscovered
cell-nucleus, and still is, I imagine. It's the pivot of our Universe.
Anything that shakes the world comes out of it; and, strangely enough,
any shake that does come out of it is intended to prevent worse
upheavals.

Don't ask questions now. I'll explain as I go along.

The reason the average man doesn't know about this particular nucleus
is that he'd probably go off his nut if he did. Our officials make
pretty sure it's kept secret, and although some nosy-bodies would
scream to high heaven if they found out something was being kept from
the public, anyone with sense will admit it's for the best.

It's a square white building about ten stories high and it looks like
an abandoned hospital. Around nine o'clock in the morning you can see a
couple of dozen ordinary looking citizens arriving, and at the end of
the workday some of them leave. But there's a considerable number that
stay overtime and work until dawn or until the next couple of dawns.
They're cautious about keeping windows covered so that high-minded
citizens won't see the light and run to the controller's office yawping
about overtime and breaking down Stability. Also they happen to have
permission.

Yeah, it's real big-time stuff. These fellas are so important, and
their work is so important they've got permission to break the one
unbreakable law. They can work overtime. In fact as far as they're
concerned they can do any damned thing they please, Stability or no
Stability--because it so happens they're the babies that maintain
Stability. How? Take it easy. We've got plenty of time--and I'll tell
you.

It's called the Prog Building and it's one of the regular newspaper
beats, just like the police courts used to be a couple of hundred
years ago. Every paper sends a reporter down there at three o'clock.
The reporters hang around and bull for a while and then some brass hat
interviews them and talks policy and economics and about how the world
is doing and how it's going to do. Usually it's dull stuff but every
once in a while something really big comes out, like the time they
decided to drain the Mediterranean. They--

What?

You never heard of that? Say, who is this guy anyway? Are you kidding?
From the Moon, hey, all your life? Never been to the home planet?
Never heard about what goes on? A real cosmic hick. Baby, you can
roll me in a rug. I thought your kind died out before I was born.
O.K., you go ahead and ask questions whenever you want. Maybe I'd
better apologize now for the slang. It's part and parcel of the
newspaper game. Maybe you won't be able to understand me sometimes, but
I've got a heart of gold.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anyway--I had the regular three o'clock beat at the Prog Building and
this particular day I got there a little early. Seems the _Trib_ had
a new reporter on the beat, guy by the name of Halley Hogan, whom I'd
never met. I wanted to get together with him and talk policy. For the
benefit of the hermit from the Moon I'll explain that no two newspapers
in any city are permitted to share the same viewpoint or opinion.

I thought all you boys knew that. Well, sure--I'm not kidding. Look.
Stability is the watchword of civilization. The world must be Stable,
right? Well, Stability doesn't mean stasis. Stability is reached
through an equipoise of opposing forces that balance each other.
Newspapers are supposed to balance the forces of public opinion so they
have to represent as many different points of view as possible. We
reporters always got together before a story, or after, and made sure
none of us would agree on our attitudes. You know--some would say it
was a terrible thing and some would say it was a wonderful thing and
some would say it didn't mean a thing and so on. I was with the _Times_
and our natural competitor and opposition was the _Trib_.

The newspaper room in the Prog Building is right next to the main
offices, just off the foyer. It's a big place with low-beamed ceiling
and walls done in synthetic wood panels. There was a round table in the
center surrounded by hardwood chairs, but we stood the chairs along
the wall and dragged up the big deep leather ones. We all would sit
with our heels on the table and every chair had a groove on the table
in front of it. There was an unwritten law that no shop could be talked
until every groove was filled with a pair of heels. That's a newspaper
man's idea of a pun.

I was surprised to find almost everybody was in. I slipped into my
place and upped with my feet and then took a look around. Every sandal
showed except the pair that should have been opposite me, so I settled
back and shut my eyes. That was where the _Trib_ man should have been
parked, and I certainly couldn't talk without my opposition being there
to contradict me.

The _Post_ said: "What makes, Carmichael?"

I said: "Ho-hum--"

The _Post_ said: "Don't sleep, baby, there's big things cookin'."

The _Ledger_ said: "Shuddup, you know the rules--" He pointed to the
vacant segment of table.

I said: "You mean the law of the jungle."

The _Record_, who happened to be the _Ledger's_ opposition, said: "Old
Bobbus left. He ain't coming in no more."

"How come?"

"Got a Stereo contract. Doing comedy scenarios."

I thought to myself: "Oi, that means another wrestling match." You see,
whenever new opposition reporters get together, they're supposed to
have a symbolic wrestling match. I said supposed. It always turns into
a brawl with everybody else having the fun.

"Well," I said, "this new Hogan probably doesn't know the ropes yet. I
guess I'll have to go into training. Anybody seen him? He look strong?"
They all shook their heads and said they didn't know him. "O.K., then
let's gab without him--"

The _Post_ said: "Your correspondent has it that the pot's a-boilin'.
Every bigwig in town is in there." He jabbed his thumb toward the main
offices.

       *       *       *       *       *

We all gave the door a glance, only, like I always did, I tried to
knock it in with a look. You see, although all of us came down to the
Prog Building every day, none of us knew what was inside. Yeah, 's'
fact. We just came and sat and listened to the big shots and went away.
Like specters at the feast. It griped all of us, but me most of all.

I would dream about it at night. How there was a Hyperman living in the
Prog Building, only he breathed chlorine and they kept him in tanks.
Or that they had the mummies of all the great men of the past which
they reanimated every afternoon to ask questions. Or it would be a cow
in some dreams that was full of brains and they'd taught it to "moo"
in code. There were times when I thought that if I didn't get upstairs
into the Prog Building I'd burst from frustration.

So I said: "You think they're going to fill up the Mediterranean again?"

The _Ledger_ laughed. He said: "I hear tell they're going to switch
poles. North to south and vice versa."

The _Record_ said: "You don't think they could?"

The _Ledger_ said: "I wish they would--if it'd improve my bridge."

I said: "Can it, lads, and let's have the dope."

The _Journal_ said: "Well, all the regulars are in--controller, vice
con and deputy vice con. But there also happens to be among those
present--the chief stabilizer."

"No!"

He nodded and the others nodded. "Fact. The C-S himself. Came up by
pneumatic from Washington."

I said: "Oh, mamma! Five'll get you ten they're digging up Atlantis
this time."

The _Record_ shook his head. "The C-S didn't wear a digging look."

Just then the door to the main office shoved open and the C-S came
thundering out. I'm not exaggerating. Old Groating had a face like
Moses, beard and all, and when he frowned, which was now, you expected
lightning to crackle from his eyes. He breezed past the table with just
one glance from the blue quartz he's got for eyes, and all our legs
came down with a crash. Then he shot out of the room so fast I could
hear his rep tunic swish with quick whistling sounds.

After him came the controller, the vice con and the deputy vice con,
all in single file. They were frowning, too, and moving so rapidly we
had to jump to catch the deputy. We got him at the door and swung him
around. He was short and fat and trouble didn't sit well on his pudgy
face. It made him look slightly lop-sided.

He said: "Not now, gentlemen."

"Just a minute, Mr. Klang," I said, "I don't think you're being fair to
the press."

"I know it," the deputy said, "and I'm sorry, but I really cannot spare
the time."

I said: "So we report to fifteen million readers that time can't be
spared these days--"

He stared at me, only I'd been doing some staring myself and I knew I
had to get him to agree to give us a release.

I said: "Have a heart. If anything's big enough to upset the stability
of the chief stabilizer, we ought to get a look-in."

That worried him, and I knew it would. Fifteen million people would be
more than slightly unnerved to read that the C-S had been in a dither.

"Listen," I said. "What goes on? What were you talking about upstairs?"

He said: "All right. Come down to my office with me. We'll prepare a
release."

Only I didn't go out with the rest of them. Because, you see, while I'd
been nudging the deputy I'd noticed that all of them had rushed out so
fast they'd forgotten to close the office door. It was the first time
I'd seen it unlocked and I knew I was going to go through it this time.
That was why I'd wheedled that release out of the deputy. I was going
to get upstairs into the Prog Building because everything played into
my hands. First, the door being left open. Second, the man from the
_Trib_ not being there.

Why? Well, don't you see? The opposition papers always paired off. The
_Ledger_ and the _Record_ walked together and the _Journal_ and the
_News_ and so on. This way I was alone with no one to look for me and
wonder what I was up to. I pushed around in the crowd a little as they
followed the deputy out, and managed to be the last one in the room. I
slipped back behind the door jamb, waited a second and then streaked
across to the office door. I went through it like a shot and shut it
behind me. When I had my back against it I took a breath and whispered:
"Hyperman, here I come!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I was standing in a small hall that had synthetic walls with those
fluorescent paintings on them. It was pretty short, had no doors
anywhere, and led toward the foot of a white staircase. The only way I
could go was forward, so I went. With that door locked behind me I knew
I would be slightly above suspicion--but only slightly, my friends,
only slightly. Sooner or later someone was going to ask who I was.

The stairs were very pretty. I remember them because they were the
first set I'd ever seen outside the Housing Museum. They had white even
steps and they curved upward like a conic section. I ran my fingers
along the smooth stone balustrade and trudged up expecting anything
from a cobra to one of Tex Richard's Fighting Robots to jump out at me.
I was scared to death.

I came to a square railed landing and it was then I first sensed the
vibrations. I'd thought it was my heart whopping against my ribs with
that peculiar _bam-bam-bam_ that takes your breath away and sets a
solid lump of cold under your stomach. Then I realised this pulse came
from the Prog Building itself. I trotted up the rest of the stairs on
the double and came to the top. There was a sliding door there. I took
hold of the knob and thought: "Oh, well, they can only stuff me and put
me under glass"--so I shoved the door open.

Boys, this was it--that nucleus I told you about. I'll try to give you
an idea of what it looked like because it was the most sensational
thing I've ever seen--and I've seen plenty in my time. The room took up
the entire width of the building and it was two stories high. I felt
as though I'd walked into the middle of a clock. Space was literally
filled with the shimmer and spin of cogs and cams that gleamed with the
peculiar highlights you see on a droplet of water about to fall. All of
those thousands of wheels spun in sockets of precious stone--just like
a watch only bigger--and those dots of red and yellow and green and
blue fire burned until they looked like a painting by that Frenchman
from way back. Seurat was his name.

The walls were lined with banks of Computation Integraphs--you could
see the end-total curves where they were plotted on photoelectric
plates. The setting dials for the Integraphs were all at eye level
and ran around the entire circumference of the room like a chain of
enormous white-faced periods. That was about all of the stuff I could
recognize. The rest just looked complicated and bewildering.

That _bam-bam-bam_ I told you about came from the very center of the
room. There was a crystal octahedron maybe ten feet high, nipped
between vertical axes above and below. It was spinning slowly so that
it looked jerky, and the vibration was the sound of the motors that
turned it. From way high up there were shafts of light projected at it.
The slow turning facets caught those beams and shattered them and sent
them dancing through the room. Boys--it was really sensational.

       *       *       *       *       *

I took a couple of steps in and then a little old coot in a white
jacket bustled across the room, saw me, nodded, and went about his
business. He hadn't taken more than another three steps when he stopped
and came back to me. It was a real slow take.

He said: "I don't quite--" and then he broke off doubtfully. He had a
withered, faraway look, as though he'd spent all his life trying to
remember he was alive.

I said: "I'm Carmichael."

"Oh yes!" he began, brightening a little. Then his face got dubious
again.

I played it real smart. I said: "I'm with Stabilizer Groating."

"Secretary?"

"Yeah."

"You know, Mr. Mitchel," he said, "I can't help feeling that despite
the gloomier aspects there are some very encouraging features. The
Ultimate Datum System that we have devised should bring us down to
surveys of the near future in a short time--" He gave me a quizzical
glance like a dog begging for admiration on his hind legs.

I said: "Really?"

"It stands to reason. After all, once a technique has been devised
for pushing analysis into the absolute future, a comparatively simple
reversal should bring it as close as tomorrow."

I said: "It should at that"--and wondered what he was talking about.
Now that some of the fright had worn off I was feeling slightly
disappointed. Here I expected to find the Hyperman who was handing down
Sinai Decrees to our bosses and I walk into a multiplied clock.

He was rather pleased. He said: "You think so?"

"I think so."

"Will you mention that to Mr. Groating? I feel it might encourage him--"

I got even smarter. I said: "To tell you the truth, sir, the Stabilizer
sent me up for a short review. I'm new to the staff and unfortunately I
was delayed in Washington."

He said; "_Tut-tut_, forgive me. Step this way, Mr. ... Mr. Ahh--"

So I stepped his way and we went weaving through the clock-works to a
desk at one side of the room. There were half a dozen chairs behind it
and he seated me alongside himself. The flat top of the desk was banked
with small tabs and push buttons so that it looked like a stenotype.
He pressed one stud and the room darkened. He pressed another and the
_bam-bam_ quickened until it was a steady hum. The octahedron crystal
whirled so quickly that it became a shadowy mist of light under the
projectors.

"I suppose you know," the old coot said in rather self-conscious tones,
"that this is the first time we've been able to push our definitive
analysis to the ultimate future. We'd never have done it if Wiggons
hadn't developed his self-checking data system."

I said: "Good for Wiggons," and I was more confused than ever. I tell
you, boys, it felt like waking up from a dream you couldn't quite
remember. You know that peculiar sensation of having everything at the
edge of your mind so to speak and not being able to get hold of it--I
had a thousand clues and inferences jangling around in my head and none
of them would interlock. But I knew this was big stuff.

Shadows began to play across the crystal. Off-focus images and flashes
of color. The little old guy murmured to himself and his fingers
plucked at the keyboard in a quick fugue of motion. Finally he said:
"Ah!" and sat back to watch the crystal. So did I.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was looking through a window in space, and beyond that window I saw
a single bright star in the blackness. It was sharp and cold and so
brilliant it hurt your eyes. Just beyond the window, in the foreground,
I saw a spaceship. No, none of your cigar things or ovate spheroids or
any of that. It was a spaceship that seemed to have been built mostly
in after-thoughts. A great rambling affair with added wings and towers
and helter-skelter ports. It looked like it'd been built just to hang
there in one place.

The old coot said: "Watch close now, Mr. Muggins, things happen rather
quickly at this tempo."

Quickly? They practically sprinted. There was a spurt of activity
around the spaceship. Towers went up and came down; the buglike figures
of people in space armor bustled about; a little cruiser, shaped like
a fat needle, sped up to it, hung around a while and then sped away.
There was a tense second of waiting and then the star blotted out. In
another moment the spaceship was blotted out, too. The crystal was
black.

My friend, the goofy professor, touched a couple of studs and we had
a long view. There were clusters of stars spread before me, sharply,
brilliantly in focus. As I watched, the upper side of the crystal began
to blacken. In a few swift moments the stars were blacked out. Just
like that. Blooey! It reminded me of school when we added carbon ink to
a drop under the mike just to see how the amoebae would take it.

He punched the buttons like crazy and we had more and more views
of the Universe, and always that black cloud crept along, blotting
everything out. After a while he couldn't find any more stars. There
was nothing but blackness. It seemed to me that it wasn't more than an
extra-special Stereo Show, but it chilled me nevertheless. I started
thinking about those amoebae and feeling sorry for them.

The lights went on and I was back inside the clock again. He turned to
me and said: "Well, what do you think?"

I said: "I think it's swell."

That seemed to disappoint him. He said: "No, no--I mean, what do you
make of it? Do you agree with the others?"

"With Stabilizer Groating, you mean?"

He nodded.

I said: "You'll have to give me a little time to think it over. It's
rather--startling."

"By all means," he said, escorting me to the door, "do think it over.
Although"--he hesitated with his hand on the knob--"I shouldn't agree
with your choice of the word 'startling.' After all, it's only what
we expected all along. The Universe must come to an end one way or
another."

Think? Boys, the massive brain practically fumed as I went back
downstairs. I went out into the press room and I wondered what there
was about a picture of a black cloud that could have upset the
Stabilizer. I drifted out of the Prog Building and decided I'd better
go down to the controller's office for another bluff, so I didn't
drift any more. There was a pneumatic pick-up at the corner. I caught
a capsule and clicked off the address on the dial. In three and a half
minutes I was there.

As I turned the overhead dome back and started to step out of my
capsule, I found myself surrounded by the rest of the newspaper crowd.

The _Ledger_ said: "Where you been, my friendly, we needed your quick
brain but bad."

I said: "I'm still looking for Hogan. I can't cover a thing until I've
seen him. What's this need for brains?"

"Not just any brains. Your brain."

I got out of the capsule and showed my empty pocket.

The _Ledger_ said: "We're not soaping you for a loan--we needed
interpolation."

"Aha?"

The _Record_ said: "The dope means interpretation. We got one of those
official releases again. All words and no sense."

"I mean interpolation," the _Ledger_ said. "We got to have some one
read implications into this barren chaff."

I said: "Brothers, you want exaggeration and I'm not going to be it
this time. Too risky."

       *       *       *       *       *

So I trotted up the ramp to the main floor and went to the deputy
vice's office and then I thought: "I've got a big thing here, why
bother with the small fry?" I did a turnabout and went straight to the
controller's suite. I knew it would be tough to get in because the
controller has live secretaries--no voders. He also happens to have
four receptionists. Beautiful, but tough.

The first never saw me. I breezed right by and was in the second
anteroom before she could say: "What is it, pa-lee-azz?" The second was
warned by the bang of the door and grabbed hold of my arm as I tried to
go through. I got past anyway, with two of them holding on, but number
three added her lovely heft and I bogged down. By this time I was
within earshot of the controller so I screamed: "Down with Stability!"

Sure I did. I also shouted: "Stability is all wrong! I'm for Chaos.
Hurray for Chaos!" and a lot more like that. The receptionists were
shocked to death and one of them put in a call for emergency and a
couple of guys hanging around were all for boffing me. I kept on
downing with Stability and fighting toward the sanctum sanctorum et
cetera and having a wonderful time because the three girls hanging on
to me were strictly class and I happily suffocated on Exuberant No. 5.
Finally the controller came out to see what made.

They let go of me and the controller said: "What's the meaning of
this?... Oh, it's you."

I said: "Excuse it, please."

"Is this your idea of a joke, Carmichael?"

"No, sir, but it was the only quick way to get to you."

"Sorry, Carmichael, but it's a little too quick."

I said: "Wait a minute, sir."

"Sorry, I'm extremely busy." He looked worried and impatient all at
once.

I said: "You've got to give me a moment in private."

"Impossible. See my secretary." He turned toward his office.

"Please, sir--"

He waved his hand and started through the door. I took a jump and
caught him by the elbow. He was sputtering furiously when I swung
him around, but I got my arms around him and gave him a hug. When my
mouth was against his ear I whispered: "I've been upstairs in the Prog
Building. _I know!_"

He stared at me and his jaw dropped. After a couple of vague gestures
with his hands he motioned me in with a jerk of his head. I marched
straight into the controller's office and almost fell down dead. The
stabilizer was there. Yeah, old Jehovah Groating himself, standing
before the window. All he needed was the stone tablets in his arms--or
is it thunderbolts?

I felt very, very sober, my friends, and not very smart any more
because the stabilizer is a sobering sight no matter how you kid about
him. I nodded politely and waited for the controller to shut the door.
I was wishing I could be on the other side of the door. Also I was
wishing I'd never gone upstairs into the Prog Building.

The controller said: "This is John Carmichael, Mr. Groating, a reporter
for the _Times_."

We both said: "How-d'you-do?" only Groating said it out loud. I just
moved my lips.

The controller said: "Now, Carmichael, what's this about the Prog
Building?"

"I went upstairs, sir."

He said: "You'll have to speak a little louder."

I cleared my throat and said: "I went upstairs, sir."

"You what!"

"W-went upstairs."

This time lightning really did flash from the C-S's eyes.

I said: "If I've made trouble for anyone, I'm sorry. I've been wanting
to get up there for years and ... and when I got the chance today, I
couldn't resist it--" Then I told them how I sneaked up and what I did.

       *       *       *       *       *

The controller made a terrible fuss about the whole affair, and I
knew--don't ask me how, I simply knew--that something drastic was going
to be done about it unless I talked plenty fast. By this time, though,
the clues in my head were beginning to fall into place. I turned
directly to the C-S and I said: "Sir, Prog stands for Prognostication,
doesn't it?"

There was silence. Finally Groating nodded slowly.

I said: "You've got some kind of fortuneteller up there. You go up
every afternoon and get your fortune told. Then you come out and tell
the press about it as though you all thought it up by yourselves.
Right?"

The controller sputtered, but Groating nodded again.

I said: "This afternoon the end of the Universe was prognosticated."

Another silence. At last Groating sighed wearily. He shut the
controller up with a wave of his hand and said: "It seems Mr.
Carmichael does know enough to make things awkward all around."

The controller burst out: "It's no fault of mine. I always insisted on
a thorough guard system. If we had guarded the--"

"Guards," Groating interrupted, "would only have upset existing
Stability. They would have drawn attention and suspicion. We were
forced to take the chance of a slip-up. Now that it's happened we must
make the best of it."

I said: "Excuse me, sir. I wouldn't have come here just to boast. I
could have kept quiet about it. What bothers me is what bothered you?"

Groating stared at me for a moment, then turned away and began to pace
up and down the room. There was no anger in his attitude; if there
had been, I wouldn't have been as scared as I was. It was a big room
and he did a lot of pacing and I could see he was coldly analyzing
the situation and deciding what was to be done with me. That frigid
appraisal had me trembling.

I said: "I'll give you my word not to mention this again--if that'll do
the trick."

He paid no attention--merely paced. My mind raced crazily through all
the nasty things that could happen to me. Like solitary for life. Like
one-way exploration. Like an obliterated memory track which meant I
would have lost my twenty-eight years, not that they were worth much to
anyone but me.

I got panicky and yelled: "You can't do anything to me. Remember
Stability--" I began to quote the Credo as fast as I could remember:
"The _status quo_ must be maintained at all costs. Every member of
society is an integral and essential factor of the _status quo_. A blow
at the Stability of any individual is a blow aimed at the Stability
of society. Stability that is maintained at the cost of so much as a
single individual is tantamount to Chaos--"

"Thank you, Mr. Carmichael," the C-S interrupted. "I have already
learned the Credo."

He went to the controller's desk and punched the teletype keys rapidly.
After a few minutes of horrible waiting the answer came clicking back.
Groating read the message, nodded and beckoned to me. I stepped up to
him and, boys, I don't know how the legs kept from puddling on the
floor.

Groating said: "Mr. Carmichael, it is my pleasure to appoint you
confidential reporter to the Stability Board for the duration of this
crisis."

I said: "Awk!"

Groating said: "We've maintained Stability, you see, and insured your
silence. Society cannot endure change--but it can endure and welcome
harmless additions. A new post has been created and you're it."

I said: "Th-thanks."

"Naturally, there will be an advance in credit for you. That is the
price we pay, and gladly. You will attach yourself to me. All reports
will be confidential. Should you break confidence, society will exact
the usual penalty for official corruption. Shall I quote the Credo on
that point?"

I said: "No, sir!" because I knew that one by heart. The usual penalty
isn't pleasant. Groating had me beautifully hog-tied. I said: "What
about the _Times_, sir?"

"Why," Groating said, "you will continue your usual duties whenever
possible. You will submit the official releases as though you had no
idea at all of what was really taking place. I'm sure I can spare you
long enough each day to make an appearance at your office."

Suddenly he smiled at me and in that moment I felt better. I realized
that he was far from being a Jehovian menace--in fact that he'd done
all he could to help me out of the nasty spot my curiosity had got me
into. I grinned back and on impulse shoved out my hand. He took it and
gave it a shake. Everything was fine.

The C-S said: "Now that you're a fellow-official, Mr. Carmichael, I'll
come to the point directly. The Prog Building, as you've guessed, is a
Prognostication Center. With the aid of a complete data system and a
rather complex series of Integraphs we have been able to ... to tell
our fortunes, as you put it."

I said: "I was just shooting in the dark, sir. I really don't believe
it."

Groating smiled. He said: "Nevertheless it exists. Prophecy is far
from being a mystical function. It is a very logical science based on
experimental factors. The prophecy of an eclipse to the exact second
of time and precise degree of longitude strikes the layman with awe.
The scientist knows it is the result of precise mathematical work with
precise data."

"Sure," I began, "but--"

Groating held up his hand. "The future of the world line," he said,
"is essentially the same problem magnified only by the difficulty of
obtaining accurate data--and enough data. For example: Assuming an
apple orchard, what are the chances of apples being stolen?"

I said: "I couldn't say. Depends, I suppose, on whether there are any
kids living in the neighborhood."

"All right," Groating said, "that's additional data. Assuming the
orchard and the small boys, what are the chances of stolen apples?"

"Pretty good."

"Add data. A locust plague is reported on the way."

"Not so good."

"More data. Agriculture reports a new efficient locust spray."

"Better."

"And still more data. In the past years the boys have stolen apples and
been soundly punished. Now what are the chances?"

"Maybe a little less."

"Continue the experimental factors with an analysis of the boys.
They are headstrong and will ignore punishment. Add also the weather
forecasts for the summer; add the location of the orchard and attitude
of owner. Now sum up: Orchard plus boys plus thefts plus punishment
plus character plus locusts plus spray plus--"

I said: "Good heavens!"

"You're overwhelmed by the detail work," Groating smiled, "but not by
the lack of logic. It is possible to obtain all possible data on the
orchard in question and integrate the factors into an accurate prophecy
not only as to the theft, but as to the time and place of theft. Apply
this example to our own Universe and you can understand the working of
the Prognosis Building. We have eight floors of data analyzers. The
sifted factors are fed into the Integrators and--presto, prophecy!"

I said: "Presto, my poor head!"

"You'll get used to it in time."

I said: "The pictures?"

Groating said: "The solution of a mathematical problem can take any
one of a number of forms. For Prognosis we have naturally selected a
picturization of the events themselves. Any major step in government
that is contemplated is prepared in data form and fed into the
Integrator. The effect of that step on the world line is observed. If
it is beneficial, we take that step; if not, we abandon it and search
for another--"

I said: "And the pictures I saw this afternoon?"

Groating sobered. He said: "Up until today, Mr. Carmichael, we have
not been able to integrate closer to the present than a week in the
future--or deeper into the future than a few hundred years. Wiggon's
new data technique has enabled us to push to the end of our existence,
and it is perilously close. You saw the obliteration of our Universe
take place less than a thousand years from now. This is something we
must prevent at once."

"Why all the excitement? Surely something will happen during the next
ten centuries to avoid it."

"What will happen?" Groating shook his head. "I don't think you
understand our problem. On the one hand you have the theory of our
society. Stability. You yourself have quoted the Credo. A society which
must maintain its Stability at the price of instability is Chaos. Keep
that in mind. On the other hand we cannot wait while our existence
progresses rapidly toward extinction. The closer it draws to that
point, the more violent the change will have to be to alter it.

"Think of the progress of a snowball that starts at the top of a
mountain and rolls down the slopes, growing in bulk until it smashes an
entire house at the bottom. The mere push of a finger is sufficient to
alter its future when it starts--a push of a finger will save a house.
But if you wait until the snowball gathers momentum you will need
violent efforts to throw the tons of snow off the course."

I said: "Those pictures I saw were the snowball hitting our house. You
want to start pushing the finger now--"

Groating nodded. "Our problem now is to sift the billions of factors
stored in the Prog Building and discover which of them is that tiny
snowball."

       *       *       *       *       *

The controller, who had been silent in a state of wild suppression
all the while, suddenly spoke up. "I tell you it's impossible, Mr.
Groating. How can you dig the one significant factor out of all those
billions?"

Groating said: "It will have to be done."

"But there's an easier way," the controller cried. "I've been
suggesting it all along. Let's attempt the trial and error method. We
instigate a series of changes at once and see whether or not the future
line is shifted. Sooner or later we're bound to strike something."

"Impossible," Groating said. "You're suggesting the end of Stability.
No civilization is worth saving if it must buy salvation at the price
of its principles."

I said: "Sir, I'd like to make a suggestion."

They looked at me. The C-S nodded.

"It seems to me that you're both on the wrong track. You're searching
for a factor from the present. You ought to start in the future."

"How's that?"

"It's like if I said old maids were responsible for more clover. You'd
start investigating the old maids. You ought to start with the clover
and work backwards."

"Just what are you trying to say, Mr. Carmichael?"

"I'm talking about _a posteriori_ reasoning. Look, sir, a fella by the
name of Darwin was trying to explain the balance of nature. He wanted
to show the chain of cause and effect. He said in so many words that
the number of old maids in a town governed the growth of clover, but
if you want to find out how, you've got to work it out _a posteriori_;
from effect to cause. Like this: Only bumblebees can fertilize clover.
The more bumblebees, the more clover. Field mice attack bumblebee
nests, so the more field mice, the less clover. Cats attack mice. The
more cats, the more clover. Old maids keep cats. The more old maids ...
the more clover. Q. E. D."

"And now," Groating laughed, "construe."

"Seems to me you ought to start with the catastrophe and follow the
chain of causation, link by link, back to the source. Why not use the
Prognosticator backwards until you locate the moment when the snowball
first started rolling?"

There was a very long silence while they thought it over. The
controller looked slightly bewildered and he kept muttering:
Cats--clover--old maids--But I could see the C-S was really hit. He
went to the window and stood looking out, as motionless as a statue.
I remember staring past his square shoulder and watching the shadows
of the helios flicking noiselessly across the faÃ§ade of the Judiciary
Building opposite us.

It was all so unreal--this frantic desperation over an event a thousand
years in the future; but that's Stability. It's strictly the long view.
Old Cyrus Brennerhaven of the _Morning Globe_ had a sign over his desk
that read: If you take care of the tomorrows, the todays will take care
of themselves.

Finally Groating said: "Mr. Carmichael, I think we'd better go back to
the Prog Building--"

Sure I felt proud. We left the office and went down the hall toward
the pneumatics and I kept thinking: "I've given an idea to the Chief
Stabilizer. He's taken a suggestion from _me_!" A couple of secretaries
had rushed down the hall ahead of us when they saw us come out, and
when we got to the tubes, three capsules were waiting for us. What's
more, the C-S and the controller stood around and waited for _me_
while I contacted my city editor and gave him the official release.
The editor was a little sore about my disappearance, but I had a
perfect alibi. I was still looking for Hogan. That, my friends, was
emphatically that.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the Prog Building we hustled through the main offices and back up
the curved stairs. On the way the C-S said he didn't think we ought
to tell Yarr, the little old coot I'd hood-winked, the real truth. It
would be just as well, he said, to let Yarr go on thinking I was a
confidential secretary.

So we came again to that fantastic clockwork room with its myriad
whirling cams and the revolving crystal and the hypnotic _bam-bam_ of
the motors. Yarr met us at the door and escorted us to the viewing desk
with his peculiar absent-minded subservience. The room was darkened
again, and once more we watched the cloud of blackness seep across the
face of the Universe. The sight chilled me more than ever, now that I
knew what it meant.

Groating turned to me and said: "Well, Mr. Carmichael, any suggestions?"

I said: "The first thing we ought to find out is just what that
spaceship has to do with the black cloud ... don't you think so?"

"Why yes, I do." Groating turned to Yarr and said: "Give us a close-up
of the spaceship and switch in sound. Give us the integration at normal
speed."

Yarr said: "It would take a week to run the whole thing off. Any
special moment you want, sir?"

I had a hunch. "Give us the moment when the auxiliary ship arrives."

Yarr turned back to his switch-board. We had a close-up of a great
round port. The sound mechanism clicked on, running at high speed with
a peculiar _wheetledy-woodeldey-weedledy_ garble of shrill noises.
Suddenly the cruiser shot into view. Yarr slowed everything down to
normal speed.

The fat needle nosed into place, the ports clanged and hissed as the
suction junction was made. Abruptly, the scene shifted and we were
inside the lock between the two ships. Men in stained dungarees,
stripped to the waist and sweating, were hauling heavy canvas-wrapped
equipment into the mother ship. To one side two elderly guys were
talking swiftly:

"You had difficulty?"

"More than ever. Thank God this is the last shipment."

"How about credits?"

"Exhausted."

"Do you mean that?"

"I do."

"I can't understand it. We had over two millions left."

"We lost all that through indirect purchases and--"

"And what?"

"Bribes, if you must know."

"Bribes?"

"My dear sir, you can't order cyclotrons without making people
suspicious. If you so much as mention an atom today, you accuse
yourself."

"Then we all stand accused here and now."

"I'm not denying that."

"What a terrible thing it is that the most precious part of our
existence should be the most hated."

"You speak of--"

"The atom."

The speaker gazed before him meditatively, then sighed and turned into
the shadowy depths of the spaceship.

I said: "All right, that's enough. Cut into the moment just before the
black-out occurs. Take it inside the ship."

The integrators quickened and the sound track began its shrill babble
again. Quick scenes of the interior of the mother ship flickered across
the crystal. A control chamber, roofed with a transparent dome passed
repeatedly before us, with the darting figures of men snapping through
it. At last the Integrator fixed on that chamber and stopped. The
scene was frozen into a still-photograph--a tableau of half a dozen
half-naked men poised over the controls, heads tilted back to look
through the dome.

Yarr said: "It doesn't take long. Watch closely."

I said: "Shoot."

       *       *       *       *       *

The scene came to life with a blurp.

"--ready on the tension screens?"

"Ready, sir."

"Power checked?"

"Checked and ready, sir."

"Stand by, all. Time?"

"Two minutes to go."

"Good--" The graybeard in the center of the chamber paced with hands
clasped behind him, very much like a captain on his bridge. Clearly
through the sound mechanism came the thuds of his steps and the
background hum of waiting mechanism.

The graybeard said: "Time?"

"One minute forty seconds."

"Gentlemen: In these brief moments I should like to thank you all for
your splendid assistance. I speak not so much of your technical work,
which speaks for itself, but of your willingness to exile yourselves
and even incriminate yourselves along with me--Time?"

"One twenty-five."

"It is a sad thing that our work which is intended to grant the
greatest boon imaginable to the Universe should have been driven into
secrecy. Limitless power is so vast a concept that even I cannot
speculate on the future it will bring to our worlds. In a few minutes,
after we have succeeded, all of us will be universal heroes. Now,
before our work is done, I want all of you to know that to me you are
already heroes--Time?"

"One ten."

"And now, a warning. When we have set up our spacial partition membrane
and begun the osmotic transfer of energy from hyperspace to our own
there may be effects which I have been unable to predict. Raw energy
pervading our space may also pervade our nervous systems and engender
various unforeseen conditions. Do not be alarmed. Keep well in mind the
fact that the change cannot be anything but for the better--Time?"

"Fifty seconds."

"The advantages? Up to now mathematics and the sciences have merely
been substitutes for what man should do for himself. So FitzJohn
preached in his first lecture, and so we are about to prove. The
logical evolution of energy mechanics is not toward magnification and
complex engineering development, but toward simplification--toward the
concentration of all those powers within man himself--Time?"

"Twenty seconds."

"Courage, my friends. This is the moment we have worked for these past
ten years. Secretly. Criminally. So it has always been with those who
have brought man his greatest gifts."

"Ten seconds."

"Stand by, all."

"Ready all, sir."

The seconds ticked off with agonizing slowness. At the moment of zero
the workers were galvanized into quick action. It was impossible to
follow their motions or understand them, but you could see by the
smooth timing and interplay that they were beautifully rehearsed. There
was tragedy in those efforts for us who already knew the outcome.

As quickly as they had begun, the workers stopped and peered upward
through the crystal dome. Far beyond them, crisp in the velvet
blackness, that star gleamed, and as they watched, it winked out.

They started and exclaimed, pointing. The graybeard cried:

"It's impossible!"

"What is it, sir?"

"I--"

And in that moment blackness enveloped the scene.

I said: "Hold it--"

Yarr brought up the lights and the others turned to look at me. I
thought for a while, idly watching the shimmering cams and cogs around
me. Then I said: "It's a good start. The reason I imagine you gentlemen
have been slightly bewildered up to now is that you're busy men with
no time for foolishness. Now I'm not so busy and very foolish, so I
read detective stories. This is going to be kind of backward detective
story."

"All right," Groating said. "Go ahead."

"We've got a few clues. First, the Universe has ended through an
attempt to pervade it with energy from hyperspace. Second, the attempt
failed for a number of reasons which we can't discover yet. Third, the
attempt was made in secrecy. Why?"

The controller said: "Why not? Scientists and all that--"

"I don't mean that kind of secrecy. These men were plainly outside the
law, carrying on an illicit experiment. We must find out why energy
experiments or atomic experiments were illegal. That will carry us back
quite a few decades toward the present."

"But how?"

"Why, we trace the auxiliary cruiser, of course. If we can pick them
up when they're purchasing supplies, we'll narrow our backward search
considerably. Can you do it, Dr. Yarr?"

"It'll take time."

"Go ahead--we've got a thousand years."

It took exactly two days. In that time I learned a lot about the
Prognosticator. They had it worked out beautifully. Seems the future
is made up solely of probabilities. The Integrator could push down
any one of these possible avenues, but with a wonderful check. The
less probable the avenue of future was, the more off-focus it was.
If a future event was only remotely possible, it was pictured as a
blurred series of actions. On the other hand, the future that was
almost-positive in the light of present data, was sharply in focus.

When we went back to the Prog Building two days later, Yarr was almost
alive in his excitement. He said: "I really think I've got just the
thing you're looking for."

"What's that?"

"I've picked up an actual moment of bribery. It has additional data
that should put us directly on the track."

We sat down behind the desk with Yarr at the controls. He had a slip of
paper in his hand which he consulted with much muttering as he adjusted
co-ordinates. Once more we saw the preliminary off-focus shadows, then
the sound blooped on like a hundred Stereo records playing at once. The
crystal sharpened abruptly into focus.

The scream and roar of a gigantic foundry blasted our ears. On both
sides of the scene towered the steel girder columns of the foundry
walls, stretching deep into the background like the grim pillars of a
satanic cathedral. Overhead cranes carried enormous blocks of metal
with a ponderous gait. Smoke--black, white and fitfully flared with
crimson from the furnaces, whirled around the tiny figures.

Two men stood before a gigantic casting. One, a foundryman in soiled
overalls, made quick measurements which he called off to the other
carefully checking a blueprint. Over the roar of the foundry the
dialogue was curt and sharp:

"One hundred three point seven."

"Check."

"Short axis. Fifty-two point five."

"Check."

"Tangent on ovate diameter. Three degrees point oh five two."

"Check."

"What specifications for outer convolutions?"

"Y equals cosine X."

"Then that equation resolves to X equals minus one half Pi."

"Check."

The foundryman climbed down from the casting, folding his three-way
gauge. He mopped his face with a bit of waste and eyed the engineer
curiously as the latter carefully rolled up the blueprint and slid it
into a tube of other rolled sheets. The foundryman said: "I think we
did a nice job."

The engineer nodded.

"Only what in blazes do you want it for. Never saw a casting like that."

"I could explain, but you wouldn't understand. Too complicated."

The foundryman flushed. He said: "You theoretical guys are too damned
snotty. Just because I know how to drop-forge doesn't mean I can't
understand an equation."

"Mebbeso. Let it go at that. I'm ready to ship this casting out at
once."

As the engineer turned to leave, rapping the rolled blueprints
nervously against his calf, a great pig of iron that had been sailing
up from the background swung dangerously toward his head. The
foundryman cried out. He leaped forward, seized the engineer by the
shoulder and sent him tumbling to the concrete floor. The blueprints
went flying.

He pulled the engineer to his feet immediately and tried to straighten
the dazed man who could only stare at the tons of iron that sailed
serenely on. The foundryman picked up the scattered sheets and started
to sort them. Abruptly he stopped and examined one of the pages
closely. He began to look through the others, but before he could go
any further, the blueprints were snatched from his hands.

He said: "What's this casting for?"

The engineer rolled the sheets together with quick, intense motions. He
said: "None of your blasted business."

"I think I know. That's one-quarter a cyclotron. You're getting the
other parts made up in different foundries, aren't you?"

There was no answer.

"Maybe you've forgotten Stabilization Rule 930."

"I haven't forgotten. You're crazy."

"Want me to call for official inspection?"

The engineer took a breath, then shrugged. He said: "I suppose the only
way to convince you is to show you the master drafts. Come on--"

       *       *       *       *       *

They left the foundry and trudged across the broad concrete of a
landing field to where the fat needle of the auxiliary ship lay. They
mounted the ramp to the side port and entered the ship. Inside, the
engineer called: "It's happened again, boys. Let's go!"

The port swung shut behind them. Spacemen drifted up from the
surrounding corridors and rooms. They were rangy and tough-looking and
the sub-nosed paralyzers glinted casually in their hands as though
they'd been cleaning them and merely happened to bring them along. The
foundryman looked around for a long time. At last he said: "So it's
this way?"

"Yes, it's this way. Sorry."

"I'd like you to meet some of my friends, some day--"

"Perhaps we will."

"They'll have an easier time with you than you're gonna have with me!"
He clenched fists and poised himself to spring.

The engineer said: "Hey--wait a minute. Don't lose your head. You did
me a good turn back there. I'd like to return the favor. I've got more
credit than I know what to do with."

The foundryman gave him a perplexed glance. He relaxed and began to rub
his chin dubiously.

He said: "Damn if this isn't a sociable ship. I feel friendlier
already--"

The engineer grinned.

I called: "O.K., that's enough. Cut it," and the scene vanished.

"Well?" Yarr asked eagerly.

I said: "We're really in the groove now. Let's check back and locate
the Stabilization debates on Rule 930." I turned to the C-S. "What's
the latest rule number, sir?"

Groating said: "Seven fifteen."

The controller had already been figuring. He said: "Figuring the same
law-production rate that would put Rule 930 about six hundred years
from now. Is that right, Mr. Groating?"

The old man nodded and Yarr went back to his keyboard. I'm not going to
bother you with what we all went through because a lot of it was very
dull. For the benefit of the hermit from the Moon I'll just mention
that we hung around the Stability Library until we located the year
S. R. 930 was passed. Then we shifted to Stability headquarters and
quick-timed through from January 1st until we picked up the debates on
the rule.

The reasons for the rule were slightly bewildering on the one hand, and
quite understandable on the other. It seems that in the one hundred
and fifty years preceding, almost every Earth-wide university had been
blown up in the course of an atomic-energy experiment. The blow-ups
were bewildering--the rule understandable. I'd like to tell you about
that debate because--well, because things happened that touched me.

The Integrator selected a cool, smooth foyer in the Administration
Building at Washington. It had a marble floor like milky ice flecked
with gold. One side was broken by a vast square window studded with
a thousand round-bottle panes that refracted the afternoon sunlight
into showers of warm color. In the background were two enormous
doors of synthetic oak. Before those doors stood a couple in earnest
conversation--a nice-looking boy with a portfolio under his arm, and
a stunning girl. The kind with sleek-shingled head and one of those
clean-cut faces that look fresh and wind-washed.

The controller said: "Why, that's the foyer to the Seminar Room. They
haven't changed it at all in six hundred years."

Groating said: "Stability!" and chuckled.

Yarr said: "The debate is going on inside. I'll shift scene--"

"No--wait," I said. "Let's watch this for a while." I don't know why I
wanted to--except that the girl made my pulse run a little faster and I
felt like looking at her for a couple of years.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was half crying. She said: "Then, if for no other reason--for my
sake."

"For yours!" The boy looked harassed.

She nodded. "You'll sweep away his life work with a few words and a few
sheets of paper."

"My own work, too."

"Oh, but won't you understand? You're young. I'm young. Youth loves to
shatter the old idols. It feasts on the broken shards of destruction.
It destroys the old ideas to make way for its own. But he's not young
like us. He has only his past work to live on. If you shatter that,
he'll have nothing left but a futile resentment. I'll be pent up with a
broken old man who'll destroy me along with himself. Darling, I'm not
saying you're wrong--I'm only asking you to wait a little."

She was crying openly now. The boy took her by the arm and led her to
the crusted window. She turned her face away from the light--away from
him. The boy said: "He was my teacher. I worship him. What I'm doing
now may seem like treachery, but it's only treachery to his old age.
I'm keeping faith with what he was thirty years ago--with the man who
would have done the same thing to his teacher."

She cried: "But are you keeping faith with me? You, who will have all
the joy of destroying and none of the tedious sweeping away the pieces.
What of my life and all the weary years to come when I must coddle him
and soothe him and lead him through the madness of forgetting what
you've done to him?"

"You'll spend your life with me. I break no faith with you, Barbara."

She laughed bitterly. "How easily you evade reality. I shall spend my
life with you--and in that short sentence, _poof_!"--she flicked her
hand--"you dismiss everything. Where will he live? Alone? With us?
Where?"

"That can be arranged."

"You're so stubborn, so pig-headed in your smug, righteous
truth-seeking. Steven--for the very last time--please. Wait until he's
gone. A few years, that's all. Leave him in peace. Leave us in peace."

He shook his head and started toward the oaken doors. "A few years
waiting to salvage the pride of an old man, a few more catastrophies, a
few more thousand lives lost--it doesn't add up."

She sagged against the window, silhouetted before the riot of color,
and watched him cross to the doors. All the tears seemed drained out
of her. She was so limp I thought she would fall to the floor at any
instant. And then, as I watched her, I saw her stiffen and I realized
that another figure had entered the foyer and was rushing toward the
boy. It was an oldish man, bald and with an ageless face of carved
ivory. He was tall and terribly thin. His eyes were little pits of
embers.

He called: "Steven!"

The boy stopped and turned.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Steven, I want to talk to you."

"It's no use, sir!"

"You're headstrong, Steven. You pit a few years' research against my
work of a lifetime. Once I respected you. I thought you would carry on
for me as I've carried on for the generations that came before me."

"I am, sir."

"You are not." The old man clutched at the boy's tunic and spoke
intensely. "You betray all of us. You will cut short a line of research
that promises the salvation of humanity. In five minutes you will wipe
out five centuries of work. You owe it to those who slaved before us
not to let their sweat go in vain."

The boy said: "I have a debt also to those who may die."

"You think too much of death, too little of life. What if a thousand
more are killed--ten thousand--in the end it will be worth it."

"It will never be worth it. There will never be an end. The theory has
always been wrong, faultily premised."

"You fool!" the old man cried. "You damned, blasted young fool. You
can't go in there!"

"I'm going, sir. Let go."

"I won't let you go in."

The boy pulled his arm free and reached for the doorknob. The old man
seized him again and yanked him off balance. The boy muttered angrily,
set himself and thrust the old man back. There was a flailing blur
of motion and a cry from the girl. She left the window, ran across
the room and thrust herself between the two. And in that instant she
screamed again and stepped back. The boy sagged gently to the floor,
his mouth opened to an O of astonishment. He tried to speak and then
relaxed. The girl dropped to her knees alongside him and tried to get
his head on her lap. Then she stopped.

That was all. No shot or anything. I caught a glimpse of a metallic
barrel in the old man's hand as he hovered frantically over the dead
boy. He cried: "I only meant to--I--" and kept on whimpering.

After a while the girl turned her head as though it weighed a ton, and
looked up. Her face was suddenly frostbitten. In dull tones she said:
"Go away, father."

The old man said: "I only--" His lips continued to twitch, but he made
no sound.

The girl picked up the portfolio and got to her feet. Without glancing
again at her father, she opened the doors, stepped in and closed them
behind her with a soft click. The debating voices broke off at the
sight of her. She walked to the head of the table, set the portfolio
down, opened it and took out a sheaf of type-script. Then she looked at
the amazed men who were seated around the table gaping at her.

She said: "I regret to inform the stabilizers that Mr. Steven Wilder
has been unavoidably detained. As his fiancÃ©e and co-worker, however, I
have been delegated to carry on his mission and present his evidence to
the committee--" She paused and went rigid, fighting for control.

One of the stabilizers said: "Thank you. Will you give your evidence,
Miss ... Miss?"

"Barbara Leeds."

"Thank you, Miss Leeds. Will you continue?"

With the gray ashes of a voice she went on: "We are heartily in favor
of S. R. 930 prohibiting any further experimentation in atomic energy
dynamics. All such experiments have been based on--almost inspired by
the FitzJohn axioms and mathematic. The catastrophic detonations which
have resulted must invariably result since the basic premises are
incorrect. We shall prove that the backbone of FitzJohn's equations is
entirely in error. I speak of

    i = (b/a) Ï i e/Î¼..."

She glanced at the notes, hesitated for an instant, and then continued:
"FitzJohn's errors are most easily pointed out if we consider the Leeds
Derivations involving transfinite cardinals--"

The tragic voice droned on.

I said: "C-cut."

There was silence.

We sat there feeling bleak and cold, and for no reason at all, the
icy sea-green opening bars of Debussy's "La Mer" ran through my head.
I thought: "I'm proud to be a human--not because I think or I am,
but because I can feel. Because humanity can reach out to us across
centuries, from the past or future, from facts or imagination, and
touch us--move us."

At last I said: "We're moving along real nice now."

No answer.

I tried again: "Evidently that secret experiment that destroyed
existence was based on this FitzJohn's erroneous theory, eh?"

The C-S stirred and said: "What? Oh--Yes, Carmichael, quite right."

In low tones the controller said: "I wish it hadn't happened. He was a
nice-looking youngster, that Wilder--promising."

I said: "In the name of heaven, sir, it's not going to happen if we
pull ourselves together. If we can locate the very beginning and change
it, he'll probably marry the girl and live happily ever after."

"Of course--" The controller was confused. "I hadn't realized."

I said: "We've got to hunt back a lot more and locate this FitzJohn. He
seems to be the key man in this puzzle."

       *       *       *       *       *

And how we searched. Boys, it was like working a four-dimensional
jig saw, the fourth dimension in this case being time. We located a
hundred universities that maintained chairs and departments exclusively
devoted to FitzJohn's mathematics and theories. We slipped back a
hundred years toward the present and found only fifty and in those
fifty were studying the men whose pupils were to fill the chairs a
century later.

Another century back and there were only a dozen universities that
followed the FitzJohn theories. They filled the scientific literature
with trenchant, belligerent articles on FitzJohn, and fought gory
battles with his opponents. How we went through the libraries.
How many shoulders we looked over. How many pages of equations we
snap-photographed from the whirling octahedron for future reference.
And finally we worked our way back to Bowdoin College, where FitzJohn
himself had taught, where he worked out his revolutionary theories and
where he made his first converts. We were on the home stretch.

FitzJohn was a fascinating man. Medium height, medium color, medium
build--his body had the rare trick of perfect balance. No matter what
he was doing, standing, sitting, walking, he was always exquisitely
poised. He was like the sculptor's idealization of the perfect man.
FitzJohn never smiled. His face was cut and chiseled, as though from a
roughish sandstone; it had the noble dignity of an Egyptian carving.
His voice was deep, unimpressive in quality, yet unforgettable for the
queer, intense stresses it laid on his words. Altogether he was an
enigmatic creature.

He was enigmatic for another reason, too, for although we traced
his career at Bowdoin backward and forward for all its forty years,
although we watched him teach the scores and scores of disciples who
afterward went out into the scholastic world to take up the fight
for him--we could never trace FitzJohn back into his youth. It
was impossible to pick him up at any point earlier than his first
appearance on the physics staff of the college. It seemed as though he
were deliberately concealing his identity.

Yarr raged with impotent fury. He said: "It's absolutely aggravating.
Here we follow the chain back to less than a half century from today
and we're blocked--" He picked up a small desk phone and called
upstairs to the data floors. "Hullo, Cullen? Get me all available data
on the name FitzJohn. FitzJOHN. What's the matter, you deaf?
F-I-T-Z ... That's right. Be quick about it."

I said: "Seems as if FitzJohn didn't want people to know where he came
from."

"Well," Yarr said pettishly, "that's impossible. I'll trace him
backward second by second, if I have to!"

I said: "That would take a little time, wouldn't it?"

"Yes."

"Maybe a couple of years?"

"What of it? You said we had a thousand."

"I didn't mean you to take me seriously, Dr. Yarr."

The small pneumatic at Yarr's desk whirred and clicked. Out popped a
cartridge. Yarr opened it and withdrew a list of figures, and they were
appalling. Something like two hundred thousand FitzJohns on the Earth
alone. It would take a decade to check the entire series through the
Integrator. Yarr threw the figures to the floor in disgust and swiveled
around to face us.

"Well?" he asked.

I said: "Seems hopeless to check FitzJohn back second by second. At
that rate we might just as well go through all the names on the list."

"What else is there to do?"

I said: "Look, the Prognosticator flirted twice with something
interesting when we were conning FitzJohn's career. It was something
mentioned all through the future, too."

"I don't recall--" the C-S began.

"It was a lecture, sir," I explained. "FitzJohn's first big lecture
when he set out to refute criticism. I think we ought to pick that up
and go through it with a fine comb. Something is bound to come out of
it."

"Very well."

       *       *       *       *       *

Images blurred across the spinning crystal as Yarr hunted for the
scene. I caught fuzzy fragments of a demolished Manhattan City with
giant crablike creatures mashing helpless humans, their scarlet
chiton glittering. Then an even blurrier series of images. A city of
a single stupendous building towering like Babel into the heavens; a
catastrophic fire roaring along the Atlantic seaboard; then a sylvan
civilization of odd, naked creatures flitting from one giant flower to
another. But they were all so far off focus they made my eyes ache. The
sound was even worse.

Groating leaned toward me and whispered: "Merely vague possibilities--"

I nodded and then riveted my attention to the crystal, for it held
a clear scene. Before us lay an amphitheater. It was modeled on the
ancient Greek form, a horseshoe of gleaming white-stone terraces
descending to a small square white rostrum. Behind the rostrum and
surrounding the uppermost tiers of seats was a simple colonnade. The
lovely and yet noble dignity was impressive.

The controller said: "Hel-lo, I don't recognize this."

"Plans are in the architectural offices," Groating said. "It isn't due
for construction for another thirty years. We intend placing it at the
north end of Central Park--"

It was difficult to hear them. The room was filled with the bellow
and roar of shouting from the amphitheater. It was packed from pit to
gallery with quick-jerking figures. They climbed across the terraces;
they fought up and down the broad aisles; they stood on their seats and
waved. Most of all they opened their mouths into gaping black blots and
shouted. The hoarse sound rolled like slow, thunderous waves, and there
was a faint rhythm struggling to emerge from the chaos.

A figure appeared from behind the columns, walked calmly up to the
platform and began arranging cards on the small table. It was FitzJohn,
icy and self-possessed, statuesque in his white tunic. He stood
alongside the table, carefully sorting his notes, utterly oblivious of
the redoubled roar that went up at his appearance. Out of that turmoil
came the accented beats of a doggerel rhyme:

    Neon
    Crypton
    Ammoniated
    FitzJohn
    Neon
    Crypton
    Ammoniated
    FitzJohn

When he was finished, FitzJohn straightened and, resting the fingertips
of his right hand lightly on top of the table, he gazed out at
the rioting--un-smiling, motionless. The pandemonium was reaching
unprecedented heights. As the chanting continued, costumed figures
appeared on the terrace tops and began fighting down the aisles
toward the platform. There were men wearing metal-tubed frame-works
representing geometric figures. Cubes, spheres, rhomboids and
tesseracts. They hopped and danced outlandishly.

Two young boys began unreeling a long streamer from a drum concealed
behind the colonnade. It was of white silk and an endless equation was
printed on it that read:

    eia = 1 + ia - a2! + a3! - a4!...

and so on, yard after yard after yard. It didn't exactly make sense,
but I understood it to be some kind of cutting reference to FitzJohn's
equations.

There were hundreds of others, some surprising and many obscure. Lithe
contortionists, made up to represent MÃ¶bius Strips, grasped ankles with
their hands and went rolling down the aisles. A dozen girls appeared
from nowhere, clad only in black net representing giant Aleph-Nulls,
and began an elaborate ballet. Great gas-filled balloons, shaped into
weird topological manifolds were dragged in and bounced around.

It was utter insanity and utterly degrading to see how these mad
college kids were turning FitzJohn's lecture into a Mardi Gras. They
were college kids, of course, crazy youngsters who probably couldn't
explain the binomial theorem, but nevertheless were giving their
own form of expression to their teachers' antagonism to FitzJohn. I
thought vaguely of the days centuries back when a thousand Harvard
undergraduates did a very similar thing when Oscar Wilde came to
lecture. Undergraduates whose entire reading probably consisted of the
_Police Gazette_.

And all the while they danced and shouted and screamed, FitzJohn stood
motionless, fingertips just touching the table, waiting for them to
finish. You began with an admiration for his composure. Then suddenly
you realized what a breathtaking performance was going on. You glued
your eyes to the motionless figure and waited for it to move--and it
never did.

What?

You don't think that was so terrific, eh? Well, one of you get up and
try it. Stand alongside a table and rest your fingertips lightly on the
top--not firmly enough to bear the weight of your arm--but just enough
to make contact. Maybe it sounds simple. Just go ahead and try it.
I'll bet every credit I ever own no one of you can stand there without
moving for sixty seconds. Any takers? I thought not. You begin to get
the idea, eh?

They began to get the same idea in the amphitheater. At first the
excitement died down out of shame. There's not much fun making a holy
show of yourself if your audience doesn't react. They started it up
again purely out of defiance, but it didn't last long. The chanting
died away, the dancers stopped cavorting, and at last that entire
audience of thousands stood silent, uneasily watching FitzJohn. He
never moved a muscle.

After what seemed like hours of trying to outstare him, the kids
suddenly gave in. Spatters of applause broke out across the terraces.
The clapping was taken up and it rose to a thunder of beating palms. No
one is as quick to appreciate a great performance as a youngster. These
kids sat down in their seats and applauded like mad. FitzJohn never
moved until the applause, too, had died down, then he picked up his
card and, without preamble--as though nothing at all had happened--he
began his lecture.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ladies and gentlemen, I have been accused of creating my theory of
energy-dynamics and my mathematics out of nothing--and my critics cry:
'From nothing comes nothing.' Let me remind you first that man does
not create in the sense of inventing what never existed before. Man
only discovers. The things we seem to invent, no matter how novel and
revolutionary, we merely discover. They have been waiting for us all
the time.

"Moreover, I was not the sole discoverer of this theory. No scientist
is a lone adventurer, striking out into new fields for himself. The way
is always led by those who precede us, and we who seem to discover all,
actually do no more than add our bit to an accumulated knowledge.

"To show you how small my own contribution was and how much I inherited
from the past, let me tell you that the basic equation of my theory
is not even my own. It was discovered some fifty years prior to this
day--some ten years before I was born.

"For on the evening of February 9, 2909, in Central Park, on the very
site of this amphitheater, my father, suddenly struck with an idea,
mentioned an equation to my mother. That equation:

    i = (b/a) Ï i e/Î¼..."

was the inspiration for my own theory. So you can understand just
how little I have contributed to the 'invention' of The Tension
Energy-Dynamics Equations--"

FitzJohn glanced at the first card and went on: "Let us consider, now,
the possible permutations on the factor

    e/Î¼..."

I yelled: "That's plenty. Cut!" and before the first word was out of
my mouth the controller and the C-S were shouting, too. Yarr blanked
out the crystal and brought up the lights. We were all on our feet,
looking at each other excitedly. Yarr jumped up so fast his chair went
over backward with a crash. We were in a fever because, boys, that day
happened to be February 9, 2909, and we had just about two hours until
evening.

The controller said: "Can we locate these FitzJohns?"

"In two hours? Don't be silly. We don't even know if they're named
FitzJohn today."

"Why not?"

"They may have changed their name--it's getting to be a fad nowadays.
The son may have changed his name as a part of that cover-up of his
past. Heaven only knows why not--"

"But we've got to split them up--whoever they are."

The C-S said: "Take hold of yourself. How are we going to separate
eleven million married people? Didn't you ever hear of Stability?"

"Can't we publish a warning and order everybody out of the park?"

"And let everybody know about the Prog Building?" I said. "You keep
forgetting Stability."

"Stability be damned! We can't let them have that conversation--and if
they do anyway, we can't let them have that boy!"

Groating was really angry. He said: "You'd better go home and read
through the Credo. Even if it meant the salvation of the Universe I
would not break up a marriage--nor would I harm the boy."

"Then what do we do?"

"Have patience. We'll think of something."

I said: "Excuse me, sir--I've got an idea."

"Forget ideas," the controller yelled, "we need action."

"This is action."

The C-S said: "Go ahead, Carmichael."

"Well, obviously the important thing is to keep all married couples out
of the north sector of Central Park tonight. Suppose we get a special
detail of police together at once. Then we beat through the park and
get everyone out. We can quarantine it--set up a close cordon around
the park and guard it all night."

The controller yelled: "It may be one of the policemen."

"O.K., then we pick the unmarried ones. Furthermore, we give strict
orders that all women are to stay away."

The C-S said: "It might work--it'll have to work. We can't let that
conversation take place."

I said: "Excuse me, sir, do you happen to be married?"

He grinned: "My wife's in Washington. I'll tell her to stay there."

"And the controller, sir?"

The controller said: "She'll stay home. What about yourself?"

"Me? Strictly bachelor."

Groating laughed. "Unfortunate, but excellent for tonight. Come, let's
hurry."

       *       *       *       *       *

We took the pneumatic to headquarters and let me tell you, stuff began
to fly, but high! Before we were there ten minutes, three companies
were reported ready for duty. It seemed to satisfy the controller, but
it didn't satisfy me. I said: "Three's not enough. Make it five."

"Five hundred men? You're mad."

I said: "I wish it could be five thousand. Look, we've knocked our
brains out digging through a thousand years for this clue. Now that
we've got it I don't want us to muff the chance."

The C-S said: "Make it five."

"But I don't think we've got that many unmarried men in the service."

"Then get all you can. Get enough so they can stand close together in
the cordon--close enough so no one can wander through. Look--this isn't
a case of us hunting down a crook who knows we're after him. We're
trying to pick up a couple who are perfectly innocent--who may wander
through the cordon. We're trying to prevent an accident, not a crime."

They got four hundred and ten all told. The whole little regiment was
mustered before headquarters and the C-S made a beautifully concocted
speech about a criminal and a crime that had to be prevented and
hoopus-gadoopus, I forget most of it. Naturally we couldn't let them
know about the Prog Building any more than we could the citizens--and I
suppose you understand why the secret had to be kept.

You don't, eh? Well, for the benefit of the hermit from the Moon I'll
explain that, aside from the important matter of Stability, there's the
very human fact that the Prog would be besieged by a million people
a day looking for fortunetelling and hot tips on the races. Most
important of all, there's the question of death. You can't let a man
know when and how he's going to die. You just can't.

There wasn't any sense keeping the news from the papers because
everyone around Central Park was going to know something was up. While
the C-S was giving instructions, I slipped into a booth and asked for
multi-dial. When most of the reporters' faces were on segments of the
screen, I said: "Greetings, friendlies!"

They all yelled indignantly because I'd been out of sight for three
days.

I said: "No more ho-hum, lads. Carmichael sees all and tells all.
Hot-foot it up to the north end of Central Park in an hour or so. Big
stuff!"

The _Journal_ said: "Take you three days to find that out?"

"Yep."

The _Post_ said: "Can it, Carmichael. The last time you sent us north,
the south end of the Battery collapsed."

"This is no gag. I'm giving it to you straight."

"Yeah?" The _Post_ was belligerent. "I say Gowan!"

"Gowan yourself," the _Ledger_ said. "This side of the opposition is
credible."

"You mean gullible."

I said: "The word this time is sensational. Four hundred police on
the march. Tramp-tramp-tramp--the beat of the drum--boots--et cetera.
Better get moving if you want to tag along."

The _News_ gave me a nasty smile and said: "Brother, for your sake it
better be good--because I'm preparing a little sensation of my own to
hand over."

I said: "Make it a quick double cross, Newsy. I'm in a hurry," and I
clicked off. It's funny how sometimes you can't get along right with
wrong people.

       *       *       *       *       *

You know how fast night comes on in February. The blackness gathers in
the sky like a bunched cape. Then someone lets it drop and it sinks
down over you with swiftly spreading black folds. Those dusky folds
were just spreading out toward the corners of the sky when we got
to the park. The cops didn't even bother to park their helios. They
vaulted out and left them blocking the streets. In less than half
a minute, two hundred were beating through the park in a long line,
driving everyone out. The rest were forming the skeleton of the cordon.

It took an hour to make sure the park was clear. Somehow, if you tell
a hundred citizens to do something, there will always be twenty who'll
fight you--not because they really object to doing what they're told,
but just out of principle or curiosity or cantankerousness.

The all-clear came at six o'clock, and it was just in time because it
was pitch dark. The controller, the C-S and myself stood before the
high iron gates that open onto the path leading into the rock gardens.
Where we stood we could see the jet masses of foliage standing crisp
and still in the chill night. To either side of us stretched the long,
wavering lines of police glow lamps. We could see the ring of bright
dots drawn around the entire north end of the park like a necklace of
glowing pearls.

The silence and the chill waiting was agonizing. Suddenly I said:
"Excuse me, sir, but did you tell the police captain to O.K. the
reporters?"

The C-S said: "I did, Carmichael--" and that was all. It wasn't so good
because I'd hoped we'd have a little talk to ease the tension.

Again there was nothing but the cold night and the waiting. The stars
overhead were like bits of radium and so beautiful you wished they were
candy so you could eat them. I tried to imagine them slowly blotted
out, and I couldn't. It's impossible to visualize the destruction of
any lovely thing. Then I tried counting the police lamps around the
park. I gave that up before I reached twenty.

At last I said: "Couldn't we go in and walk around a bit, sir?"

The C-S said: "I don't see why not--"

So we started through the gate, but we hadn't walked three steps into
the park when there was a shout behind us and the sharp sounds of
running feet.

But it was only old Yarr running up to us with a couple of cops
following him. Yarr looked like a banshee with his coat flying
and an enormous muffler streaming from his neck. He dressed real
old-fashioned. He was all out of breath and just gasped while the C-S
told the cops it was all right.

Yarr panted: "I ... I--"

"Don't worry, Dr. Yarr, everything is safe so far."

Yarr took an enormous breath, held it for a moment and then let it out
with a _woosh_. In natural tones he said: "I wanted to ask you if you'd
hold on to the couple. I'd like to examine them for a check on the
Prognosticator."

Gently, the C-S explained: "We're not trying to catch them, Dr. Yarr.
We don't know who they are and we may never know. All we want to do is
to prevent this conversation."

       *       *       *       *       *

So we forgot about taking a walk through the gardens and there was more
cold and more silence and more waiting. I clasped my hands together and
I was so chilled and nervous it felt like I had ice water between the
palms. A quick streak of red slanted up through the sky, the rocket
discharges of the Lunar Transport, and ten seconds later I heard the
_wham_ of the take-off echoing from Governor's Island and the follow-up
drone. Only that drone kept on sounding long after it should have died
away and it was too thin--too small--

I looked up, startled, and there was a helio making lazy circles over
the center of the rock gardens. Its silhouette showed clearly against
the stars and I could see the bright squares of its cabin windows.
Suddenly I realized there was a stretch of lawn in the center of the
gardens where a helio could land--where a couple could get out to
stretch their legs and take an evening stroll.

I didn't want to act scared, so I just said: "I think we'd better go
inside and get that helio out of there."

So we entered the gate and walked briskly toward the gardens, the two
cops right at our heels. I managed to keep on walking for about ten
steps and then I lost all control. I broke into a run and the others
ran right behind me--the controller, the C-S, Yarr and the cops. We
went pelting down the gravel path, circled a dry fountain and climbed a
flight of steps three at a clip.

The helio was just landing when I got to the edge of the lawn. I
yelled: "Keep off! Get out of here!" and started toward them across
the frozen turf. My feet pounded, but not much louder than my heart. I
guess the whole six of us must have sounded like a herd of buffalo. I
was still fifty yards off when dark figures started climbing out of the
cabin. I yelled: "Didn't you hear me? Get out of this park!"

And then the _Post_ called: "That you, Carmichael? What goes on?"

Sure--it was the press.

So I stopped running and the others stopped and I turned to the C-S
and said: "Sorry about the false alarm, sir. What shall I do with the
reporters--have them fly out or can they stay? They think this is a
crime hunt."

Groating was a little short of breath. He said: "Let them stay,
Carmichael, they can help us look for Dr. Yarr. He seems to have lost
himself somewhere in the woods."

I said: "Yes, sir," and walked up to the helio.

The cabin door was open and warm amber light spilled out into the
blackness. All the boys were out by this time, getting into their
coveralls and stamping around and making the usual newspaper chatter.
As I came up, the _Post_ said: "We brung your opposition along,
Carmichael--Hogan of the _Trib_."

The _News_ said: "Now's as good a time as any for the wrasslin' match,
eh? You been in training, Carmichael?" His voice had a nasty snigger
to it and I thought: "Oh-ho, this Hogan probably scales two twenty and
he'll mop me up, but very good--to the great satisfaction, no doubt, of
my confrere from the _News_."

Only when they shoved Hogan forward, he wasn't so big, so I thought:
"At a time like this--let's get it over with fast." I took a little
sprint through the dark and grabbed Hogan around the chest and dumped
him to the ground.

I said: "O.K., opposition, that's--"

Suddenly I realized this Hogan'd been soft--soft but firm, if you get
me. I looked down at her, full of astonishment and she looked up at me,
full of indignation, and the rest of the crowd roared with laughter.

I said: "I'll be a pie-eyed emu!"

       *       *       *       *       *

And then, my friends, six dozen catastrophes and cataclysms and
volcanoes and hurricanes and everything else hit me. The C-S began
shouting and then the controller and after a moment, the cops. Only by
that time the four of them were on top of me and all over me, so to
speak. Little Yarr came tearing up, screaming at Groating and Groating
yelled back and Yarr tried to bash my head in with his little fists.

They yanked me to my feet and marched me off while the reporters
and this Halley Hogan girl stared. I can't tell you much about
what happened after that--the debating and the discussing and the
interminable sound and fury, because most of the time I was busy being
locked up. All I can tell you is that I was it. Me. I. I was the one
man we were trying to stop. I--innocent me. I was X, the mad scientist
and Y, the ruthless dictator and Z, the alien planet--all rolled into
one. I was the one guy the Earth was looking to stop.

Sure--because you see if you twist "I'll be a pie-eyed emu" enough, you
get FitzJohn's equation:

    i = (b/a) Ï i e/Î¼..."

I don't know how my future son is going to figure I was talking
mathematics. I guess it'll just be another one of those incidents that
turn into legend and get pretty well changed in the process. I mean
the way an infant will say "goo" and by the time his pop gets finished
telling about it it's become the Preamble to the Credo.

What?

No, I'm not married--yet. In fact, that's why I'm stationed up here
editing a two-sheet weekly on this God-forsaken asteroid. Old Groating,
he calls it protective promotion. Well, sure, it's a better job than
reporting. The C-S said they wouldn't have broken up an existing
marriage, but he was going to keep us apart until they can work
something out on the Prognosticator.

No--I never saw her again after that time I dumped her on the turf,
but, boys, I sure want to. I only got a quick look, but she reminded
me of that Barbara Leeds girl, six hundred years from now. That lovely
kind with shingled hair and a clean-cut face that looks fresh and
wind-washed--

I keep thinking about her and I keep thinking how easy it would be to
stow out of here on an Earth-bound freighter--change my name--get a
different kind of job. To hell with Groating and to hell with Stability
and to hell with a thousand years from now. I've got to see her
again--soon.

I keep thinking how I've got to see her again.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Push of a Finger, by Alfred Bester

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PUSH OF A FINGER ***

***** This file should be named 61551-0.txt or 61551-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/5/5/61551/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

