The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Monster That Threatened the Universe, by 
R.R. Winterbotham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Monster That Threatened the Universe

Author: R.R. Winterbotham

Release Date: April 19, 2020 [EBook #61870]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MONSTER THAT THREATENED ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









               THE MONSTER THAT THREATENED THE UNIVERSE

                         By R. R. WINTERBOTHAM

             From Chaos a space-consuming creature reached
             slimy tentacles toward trembling planets. And
             no man of the old fighting breed remained on
           effete Earth to battle the invulnerable monster.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Limio hugged the dying fires of Chaos. He was not cold, for the fires
that burned in the center of the cold star were not dead, only dying.
But they were the source of life to the monster who lived in the depths
of a black hole of space.

The Black Hole, about thirty degrees from the solar quadrant in the
terrestrial galaxy, was not dark, but twilight to Limio, whose eyes
were sensitive to infra-red radiation. These eyes, hundreds of them
floating on huge cranial bumps that dotted the thousands of miles of
his massive body, caught the ruddy glow of a rocket ship entering The
Black Hole.

Limio grunted. These iron creatures were hard to crack, but inside
their hulls were juicy tidbits of carbon and oxygen in various
combinations. It had seemed to Limio that these tasty morsels were
alive; that they might even possess intelligence. Of course, it would
be hard to conceive of anything so small having much intelligence, but
Limio had run across strange things in the universe in his millions of
years of existence.

Limio had come to Chaos a single spore. He had grown into a slimy,
reptilian, nauseating mass, the supreme hideosity in a warp of
creation. His body lacked form, except as a tenuous syrupy blanket
covering a fourth of the surface of Chaos. Here and there in the
skin of this monster were toothed craters ready to devour any carbon
molecule that might fall from space. Food was not important to Limio,
for it only made him grow. The energy of the inner fires of Chaos
supplied the needs of his existence. He ate simply to destroy, for
Limio wanted no competitive form of life on Chaos. Competition might
mean death and Limio loved his immortality.

The rocket ship drew nearer. Limio saw that it had guns. Limio knew
these guns. Once before he had met a rocket ship equipped with neutron
blasters. Limio had received a hole in his body that had taken a
century to heal. Limio had been unprepared then, but this time he was
ready.

He tapped the inner fires of energy. A warm glow softened his body. The
network of nerves that formed his brain threw out a web of magnetic
energy. The toothed craters in his skin yawned expectantly.

The intelligence behind the controls of the ship spotted Chaos. It
circled the dying sun. Searchlights stabbed downward toward the
surface. Limio's sensitive nerves tingled as radio energy lashed out
rhythmically from the craft. It was signaling, probably.

Suddenly from the surface of the star a long, tenuous arm shot out. It
was fifty miles long and five miles in diameter. It leaped from the
surface with mile a second velocity, aiming a blow at the space ship
that could have pounded it to junk, had it landed.

But the pilot saw the blow and dodged out of the way. The tentacle
snapped back. Again Limio tingled with radio energy. His brain caught
the rhythm and deciphered the thought:

"It is a living world. It seems to be a vicious animal. Just now it
attacked--"

"And I will attack again!" whispered Limio's brain in the same magnetic
rhythm of the impulses that flowed from the ship.

Again the arm shot out toward the ship's hull. Once more the alert
pilot dodged in time.

"Who are you?" asked the space ship, in the rhythm Limio had begun to
understand.

"I am Limio," replied the monster. "Who are you, metal monster?"

"This ship is the _Burnt Atom_, from earth in the solar system."

"I have never heard of the solar system, but I have seen others like
you in my time. I have never had trouble destroying one of your kind.
Go away. Leave me alone, or I shall kill you."

"That is not our policy. We are men. We have principles. Our principles
demand that you be destroyed as a menace to space navigation."

"Why?"

"Because you interfere with progress. We know now why ships that enter
The Black Hole never return. We intend to put an end to this wanton and
useless destruction."

"If you do not go away, I will kill you," said Limio. "But if you
creatures who call yourselves men leave me alone, I will leave you
alone."

"We can't leave you alone because your principles are not the same as
ours. You stand in the way of progress. You are hideous. You are a
monster. You must be destroyed."

"You are unbeauteous yourself, but no doubt you are in your early
stages of development. But I do not kill for esthetic reasons. I simply
want to be left alone. Go away."

"No!" came from the _Burnt Atom_. "There is no room in the universe for
enemies of progress. Besides, our studies reveal that your planet has
rare minerals on its surface."

Limio studied the assertion. It was evident to him that the
intelligence directing the _Burnt Atom_ had room for progress. There
was nothing wrong in wanting to progress, except that rapid progress
was self-evidently a bad policy. Progress was inevitable, according to
Limio's way of looking at things, but it should be avoided, because
progress would seek one out. Limio's ultimate destruction would be due
to progress. He would grow until Chaos was too small to keep his bodily
processes in operation. Limio could not stop growth, because carbon
molecules and spores fell continually on the surface of Chaos. But he
did not invite food to come to his planet. That was why he asked the
men to go away.

"Perhaps your idea of progress is different from mine," Limio said. "To
me, progress is synonymous with growth."

"To us, progress means growth of mind; development of resources;
betterment of human institutions and relationships."

"Then your idea of progress is nothing at all," Limio said. "I have
seen many forms of life, even some of your own forms, and I have never
seen a mind whose growth was not limited by hereditary conditions
which tend to progress in nature's own way; nature alone can develop
resources--you simply take them away from nature; and if human
relations are governed by this philosophy it is better that the human
race does not progress, although it will in spite of itself. Now that
we understand each other, please go away."

In reply the yellow flame of a neutron gun streaked from the _Burnt
Atom_.

But Limio had met men before and he was prepared for the niceties of
their means of destruction. His web-like brain cast off magnetic force
to shield his body. The magnetism swerved the neutrons from their path,
doubled them back on their course until the yellow flame touched the
sides of the space ship itself.

There was a single explosive puff. The darkness of The Black Hole
returned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commander General Adstrom, president of the terrestrial Congress,
surveyed the two men who stood in front of him. One was an officer in
uniform, while the other was a pale-faced, poorly dressed person.

The commander general addressed the officer.

"Is--is this a--a criminal?" he asked.

The pale-faced young man watched with evident amusement.

"The gland extracts have been most effective during the past ten years,
sir," the officer said. "This is the only law violator we've been able
to find."

Commander General Adstrom shook his head. "We should have known
when to stop with those gland extracts," he declared. "We sought to
destroy criminality and we did. But we also destroyed creativeness,
originality, individuality. I hoped that the gland extract would not
affect everyone. I expected that some individualists would remain and
that we could find him among the criminal classes. But there are no
criminal classes!"

"This man is a criminal. His name is Marmaduke Karns. Perhaps you
remember the trial not long ago. It was quite a sensation."

"Marmaduke Karns? The name is familiar." The commander general
appraised the young man. "What crime did he commit?"

"He synthesized teakwood without a permit, sir."

"I got thirty days, too!" Marmaduke Karns added proudly. "They treated
me royally in jail. It was the first job the jailer has had in ten
years."

"Did you take the gland extract?" Commander General asked.

Marmaduke nodded.

"There's something funny about that, too, sir," the officer
interrupted. "Karns was given a test in jail and the gland extract was
found in his veins, but there also was a trace of another substance. An
antidote, sir!"

Marmaduke's face grew paler. The commander general eyed his prisoner
seriously.

"You know it's a capital offense to take an antidote to the extract?"
the commander general asked.

"I'm standing on my Constitutional rights," Marmaduke said. "I want a
lawyer."

"I didn't know there was an antidote," the commander general said. "It
seems that the antidote probably will be, in your case, a great boon to
the universe. Have you got any more of it?"

"I'm still standing on my Constitutional rights," Marmaduke said. "The
stuff--and I'm not admitting anything--is a secret."

"You can feel perfectly free to talk," the commander general said.
"Nothing you say will go beyond these walls. Furthermore, one
difficulty we are up against is that of finding an executioner, even if
you were convicted and sentenced to death for manufacturing an antidote
to the extract. There's not a human being on earth who would take
another man's life, even legally."

"I know," Marmaduke said. "That's why I invented the stuff and took
it. Now I'm in the position of a superman. I've got a monopoly on
originality, individuality and creativeness in the world. If I revealed
my antidote, I'd not have a monopoly."

"We can still put you in jail," the commander general reminded.

"The world would beat a pathway to my cell," Marmaduke replied. "I
wouldn't stay in jail long."

       *       *       *       *       *

Commander General Adstrom was confronted with a serious problem.
Marmaduke Karns represented a one-man revolution that could not be
suppressed. The commander general might call out the army, the navy,
the airforce and the spaceforce, but not a human being would kill
Karns, because the gland extract had made it psychologically impossible
for one human being to kill another. As long as Karns were alive,
whether he be in jail or free, Karns was bound to climb to the top of
the heap.

The commander general played his final trump.

"I plead with you in the name of human progress," he said, "to thrust
aside your personal ambitions and put your self-bestowed gift of
individuality in the service of mankind!"

"When you put it that way," Karns said, "I'd be a heel to refuse."

"Ah!" Commander General Adkins drew a deep sigh.

Briefly he explained his proposition. He told of the radio reports
received from the _Burnt Atom_ indicating that a creature existed in
the middle of The Black Hole that blocked progress in developing Chaos.

"There was an interruption of signals and then silence," Adstrom
continued. "We have not heard from the _Burnt Atom_ since and there's
no doubt that this terrible creature, Limio, destroyed the ship. Now
we human beings have learned a few lessons in our millions of years of
existence. One of them is that a rotten place on the world or in the
universe spreads. We must someday come to death grips with Limio and we
believe we can tackle him better now than later on."

"Why now?"

"At present he is confined to only one planet--or star, for we
believe Chaos is simply a burnt-out star. As he grows he will become
desperate, just as mankind grew desperate when the earth became
overpopulated. Limio, sooner or later, will find a way to move Chaos
out of The Black Hole. By that time he will be large enough to join
other planets to his own. The eventual conclusion will be that Limio
will absorb every atom of carbon in the universe, including the human
race, and the whole universe will be occupied by a single living
creature."

"It sounds rather absurd," Marmaduke said.

"It's not half as absurd as some other theories about the end of the
world and it's just as logical."

"I suppose you want me to destroy this monster?"

"We've tried our best weapons against him and failed to hurt him,"
the commander general pointed out. "You've got to invent a weapon to
conquer Limio. You're the only man in the world with genius enough to
do it."

"May I see the reports from the _Burnt Atom_?"

"The resources of the world are at your command."

"Then I'll take the job," Marmaduke said. "But when I get back, it's
every man for himself. Either you abdicate, or I'll overthrow you."

Commander General Adstrom smiled. "I'll abdicate," he said.

The door of the room opened and a slender figure dressed in slacks
entered.

"Oh, it's you, Sandra!" Commander General Adstrom said. He turned to
Marmaduke. "This is Sandra, my daughter; Sandra, this is Marmaduke
Karns, the world's foremost public enemy."

Sandra stepped forward and took the hand of the prisoner in a friendly
clasp.

"I read about your trial! It was so exciting! I've always wanted to
meet a bad man."

Marmaduke Karns grinned bashfully. "You're Sandra Adstrom! I've had
your pictures from the rotogravure section pasted all over my cell!"

It was Sandra's turn to blush. She noted that if Marmaduke had
more color he wouldn't be so bad looking, even if he were a little
underweight.

"Karns is going to lead an expedition into The Black Hole," Commander
General Adstrom explained. "He's going to invent a weapon to conquer
Limio."

"Oh!" Sandra caught her breath. "How soon?"

"Not for a few weeks," Marmaduke explained. "I've got to invent the
weapon first."

"Oh, then you could drop over to my house for tea," Sandra smiled.
"Some of my friends would like to meet you. Perhaps you could autograph
their copies of the court records of your trial."

Karns quickly accepted the invitation. The officer showed him out of
the room.

The commander general turned to his daughter.

"Nice work, child," he said. "No man will execute Karns, but Limio has
no such limitations. The fool did not even suspect that he was under
a death sentence the minute our scientists found the antidote for the
extract in his veins."

"It seems such a shame, too," Sandra said. "But after all, I suppose
he's a public enemy."

       *       *       *       *       *

Marmaduke, at Sandra's party, strutted like a rooster among a dozen of
her close friends. The sight sickened Sandra, but it made her glad at
the same time. There was not another man in the world with conceit. The
gland extract had eliminated man's worst failing.

When the others left, Sandra turned on her guest of honor.

"I don't think you were very modest," she said. "In old times a
criminal didn't crow about his crimes, he was ashamed. You acted like a
national hero."

"After all, I am, am I not?"

"You didn't need to date up all of my friends!"

A slow smile crept across Marmaduke's face. He looked nicer even than
he had in Commander General Adstrom's office. There was more color in
his cheeks and he had gained weight. There was a trace of devilishness
in his eyes. Somehow, Sandra felt sorry to find it there. She was part
of the plot to bring about this criminal's execution.

"So that's it, is it?" Marmaduke asked.

"What's what?"

"You're jealous!"

"You conceited fool!" Sandra said. She did not appear to be angry, and
in fact she was not, for the gland extract had eliminated anger in her
temperament. She was simply stating facts.

Marmaduke took her in his arms and planted a kiss on her lips. She
tried to break away, but he kissed her again, very firmly. She ceased
resisting and kissed him.

"After all," said Sandra, "you're the only male left in the world who
has the remotest resemblance to what a man should be. I'll have no part
in this thing. You must not go to The Black Hole!"

"If you mean you're afraid your father's plan to use Limio as an
executioner will work, you needn't worry."

"You know--about that?"

"Of course! I knew when I was brought before Old Monkeyface--pardon,
I mean your father--that the antidote in my veins had been discovered
and that I would be sentenced to death. I was curious as to how he was
going to execute me."

"Now you know. You can't kill Limio! The monster is invulnerable."

"Sandra, dear," Marmaduke said, "everyone thinks the gland extract is
foolproof. But look! You're aiding and abetting a criminal, giving me a
chance to escape after warning me that I face death."

"Oh! I'm a criminal, too."

"Yes. It seems as though love is an antidote for a lot of things,
including the extract. Of course, my antidote is not a love potion, but
it works just as well as love to overcome the extract. Now all I have
to do is to meet Limio and show he's not invulnerable. I'll do it, too."

In her mind Sandra doubted, but in her heart she hoped.

The terrestrial Congress, anxious for law enforcement, commandeered a
laboratory for Marmaduke Karns, who intended to use it to construct
a chemical weapon to use against Limio. Marmaduke argued that if the
human race could be completely subdued by a shot or two of extract,
Limio could be made docile. Commander General Adstrom didn't care
whether Karns was successful or not. If successful, Karns would have
won a pardon from his death sentence; if not, the death penalty would
have been carried out and the laws enforced. Adstrom couldn't lose.

The work was completed at last. Tank after tank of liquid was stored
aboard the _Burnt Atom II_, the space ship destined to take Karns into
The Black Hole. The craft was loaded with provisions and fuel and then
it shot into space and beyond the solar system at a speed many times
the velocity of light.

At the edge of The Black Hole, Karns' radio receiver crackled.

"Commander General Adstrom calling!"

This was remarkable. The radio signals had no right to catch up! True,
the signals could be sent through the time dimension and traverse space
at a pace more rapid than light, but this signal from earth shouldn't
have reached Karns for several days.

"Hello, Adstrom!" spoke Karns.

"You're under arrest. Halt. You've kidnaped my daughter!"

"But I haven't got your daughter, sir!" Karns said.

"Oh, yes, you have!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The four words came, not from the receiver, but from the storeroom of
the space ship. There in the doorway stood Sandra.

"Sandra!"

"Aha!" came from Adstrom.

"I hope you don't mind having a stowaway," said Sandra.

"I'm training a battery of neutron guns on your ship," Adstrom called.
"Surrender my daughter or I'll fire."

Karns swung to the microphone. "You won't fire," he said. "You're
primed with too much extract and even if you weren't, you wouldn't want
to destroy your daughter along with the kidnaper." He turned to Sandra.
"There's a lifeboat in the hold. Get in it and take off."

"You're afraid to take me with you! Haven't you faith in your weapon?"

"There's always a certain amount of danger."

"Then I'll share it with you!"

Karns glanced at the pursuing ship. It was overtaking him. He didn't
dare wait. He touched the controls and nosed into The Black Hole. He
flew toward the shadow of the star that was silhouetted in darkness in
the center of the whirlpool of space.

"Limio! Limio!" he called into the radio.

At last a reply came from the monster.

"Go away, earthman. Go away before I kill you."

"There's no reason for me to kill you. Why can't terrestrials and you
get along?"

Limio's answer was simple.

"If I don't kill you, you'll kill me. It's the law of life. I don't
want to be killed, so I kill you."

"If you kill me, my atoms will fall to your planet. You'll absorb them
and grow. Other men will come to avenge my death and you'll kill them.
You will eat their atoms and grow some more. Some day you'll be too big
for Chaos. You'll die. By killing me, you kill yourself."

"If I don't kill you, you'll kill me," Limio repeated.

"You don't trust me, Limio. Listen. I don't come to kill, I came to
bring peace."

"You are a fool, man, but I'm not. Go away, while you are in one piece."

"I offer you a long life and a more exciting one!"

As he spoke Karns glanced behind him. Adstrom's ship was circling
above, ready to dive. It would try to disable _Burnt Atom II_, board
the ship and rescue Sandra, and then leave Karns to Limio's mercy.

"The last earthman to come here talked of progress," Limio said. "You
speak of other gifts. What--"

"Not a gift, Limio, but a price! We terrestrials wish to buy precious
minerals you guard on Chaos."

"What has happened of progress on earth?"

"The minerals represent our ideal of progress."

"Do the minerals make you grow?"

"No, Limio."

"Then there is no progress. Progress is purely a matter of size."

"But even to you, growth means death and destruction. On our planet we
grow in numbers. When the world is overpopulated, enough people die to
leave it under-populated again. The human race, in a sense, is more
immortal than you, Limio."

Karns saw Adstrom's ship in a dive. He jerked the controls and sent his
own craft forward out of the way. The action was mistaken by Limio as
an attack. The huge, fifty-mile tentacle shot out toward the _Burnt
Atom II_. Karns twisted the controls again and dodged, so that the blow
barely missed his ship.

Adstrom, however, was not so lucky. As he attempted to follow Karns'
maneuver, his craft came directly in line with the piston-like plunge
of the tentacle. He swerved his ship, but he swerved too late. The
tentacle caught Adstrom's ship a glancing blow.

The ship bounced upward out of control. But it was caught by the
gravity of Chaos and it tumbled back, like a falling leaf, toward the
surface of the planet.

A roar came from Limio.

Adstrom's ship tumbled close to the ground before the commander fired
the rockets. Even with the fuel blast, he was unsuccessful in keeping
the craft off the ground, but he managed to steer it to a safe landing
on a rocky cliff some distance from the huge body of Limio.

Sandra screamed as she saw a thousand-foot wave of flesh roll across
the rocky planet toward her father.

Karns already was nosing his craft down in a dive.

There were two courses open. He might leave Adstrom to his fate and try
to flee, in which case Limio most certainly would bring him down with
a blow from the tentacle. Or, Karns might try to land, hoping to fool
Limio into thinking he had damaged both craft. Limio might not attack
Karns in belief that Karns was a lame duck.

Karns chose the second course, not only as the safest, but as a means
of bringing Limio under control. Adstrom did not deserve to be rescued,
perhaps, but after all he was Sandra's father.

Besides, it was a battle between a monster and man, and Adstrom was on
Karns' side.

       *       *       *       *       *

The space ship tumbled to the foot of the rocky cliff. As it fell,
Karns gave the tubes just enough fuel to keep the landing bump from
being too severe. As the ship crashed, he opened the cockpit of the
tanks containing the fluid he intended to use upon Limio.

"Follow me, Sandra!" he called, running toward the locks.

They leaped from the craft into an atmosphere surprisingly pleasant
and sweet. It was only slightly frosty, but the terrestrials were well
clad.

They began scrambling up the sides of the cliff. Below they heard the
rumbling of the monster's body.

Limio roared as his processes splashed into the sweet liquid that
washed the gulleys at the foot of the cliff.

Sandra screamed as one of the processes struck a rock a few feet from
her.

"It isn't working!" she cried. "It can't work. The extract simply
prevents crime and individualism. You can't prevent individualism when
there is only one individual in a species; and there can be no crime
without fellow creatures to harm!"

"Hurry, Sandra!" Karns urged. "Save your breath. It wasn't the extract
I gave him, but the antidote!"

A huge tentacle raised above the fleeing pair. Sandra closed her eyes.
She couldn't escape this blow.

The tentacle did not fall. Instead it snapped back to Limio's body,
landing with the crack of a whip.

Suddenly Limio seemed to writhe in pain. Sparks flew from the
rocks. The planet shook as if it was in the throes of dissolution.
Searchlights from Adstrom's craft flickered down into the valley to
reveal a billowing ocean of flesh struggling with itself, fighting
itself.

At the top of the cliff Karns and Sandra paused for breath.

"His mind was in unity, now it is in discord," he said. "His evolution
was different from ours. He grew as one individual, while life on our
planet resolved itself into countless individuals. The antidote served
to separate the individuals of his being for the first time in history.
Every nerve cell in his body now has individuality. Limio is a billion
intellects instead of one."

"In other words, he is crazy!"

"Only in the sense that he is one creature. If we look at him as the
whole creation of a world--many creatures--he is not so crazy. He is
simply conservative. He is bound to progress and that progress is going
to be the kind that lasts, because it was won in a struggle."

"What on earth is progress?" Sandra asked. "It looks to me, if that is
progress, that it's a rather crazy thing--"

"Progress is simply the settlement of a lot of arguments. Every time
we settle one argument we find another and progress goes on. At home,
progress was blocked by the extract, which made all minds in unison,
blocked all argument, ended criminality, made the whole race one
individual. The antidote which I gave myself preserved progress by
allowing one individual, at least, a different viewpoint. I proved my
individuality by getting thrown in jail. You fell in love and became an
individualist by warning me of a plot to kill me. Progress continued
when your father chased me into The Black Hole--"

"Hello! Hello out there! Are you all right?" Adstrom's voice boomed
from the locks of his space ship.

"Perfectly!" Karns replied.

"Ah! A moment ago I wanted to kill you! Now, strangely enough, I feel
very grateful toward you for--er--saving Sandra. You will be pardoned
of all your crimes."

"He didn't kidnap me, Father," Sandra explained as they entered the
ship.

"He has done plenty to the earth! He connected his laboratory with a
food factory so that the antidote he made has been spread all over the
world in food! He's destroyed the unity of the world! He ought to go to
jail, but the jailer's resigned because he had too much to do."

"Marmaduke has brought progress back to the world, Father!"

"Progress! Bah! He's turned the world into a turmoil! The whole
population is fighting. The planet's in an uproar. I'll abdicate rather
than rule the mess. Let Marmaduke try to straighten it out!"

"Sir," Marmaduke said, "it's every man for himself. You've better
qualifications for the office and I can swing some votes your way. You
couldn't swing a barn door mine."

The damaged ship had been repaired. They soared earthward. Limio, too
busy with his own problems, made no move to stop them. In fact, he
might be disturbed enough now to enter into commercial agreement with
other planets--parts of his brain trading with other creatures at the
expense of other parts. Progress, human style, had come to Chaos.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Monster That Threatened the
Universe, by R.R. Winterbotham

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MONSTER THAT THREATENED ***

***** This file should be named 61870.txt or 61870.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/8/7/61870/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
