The Project Gutenberg EBook of Dead Man's Planet, by R. R. Winterbotham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Dead Man's Planet

Author: R. R. Winterbotham

Release Date: April 24, 2020 [EBook #61919]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEAD MAN'S PLANET ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           DEAD MAN'S PLANET

                         By R. R. WINTERBOTHAM

             For unmarked ages a dead man kept his ghostly
                vigil on that barren, frozen asteroid.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1941.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"A life-saver!" Mick said, bringing the space freighter down with a
gentle bump on the huge, shapeless mass of rock and iron that floated
between Mars and Jupiter.

The term huge was purely relative, for the asteroid was scarcely ten
miles in diameter at its thickest point, and its axis could not have
been more than twelve miles long.

Mick switched off the rockets, opened a locker and pulled forth a suit
of heavy, furlined, airtight garments which he slipped over his uniform.

The communication speaker buzzed.

"Hey, Mick! Are you still on the bridge?"

Alf Rankin was calling from the charting room.

"Yes, Alf. What's the trouble." Mick Conner was sealing his space suit.

"This isn't an ordinary asteroid, Mick. It isn't barren. There's stuff
growing on it."

"That's nothing to get goggle-eyed about, Alf. There's moss on Eros
which is smaller than this. And there are 142 different kinds of plants
and one intermediate--animal-vegetable--organism on Juno."

"Hm-m!"

Of course this was a surprise to Alf, who had never made a landing on
the asteroids before. Science had rather neglected the asteroids during
the rapid development of interplanetary flight, yet there were many
interesting sights to be seen on the 4,000 minor planets that floated
between Jupiter and Mars.

"Get on your space togs and oxygen helmet and we'll fix that broken
jet," Mick said. "We'll be ready to go in three hours."

Mick sealed his helmet and stepped into the automatic lock leading from
the control bridge to the roof of the streamlined rocket.

He held tightly to the rail of the observation platform, knowing that
the gravity of this nameless planet was next to zero. A man might jump
one thousand feet into the sky without exertion and, if he wasn't
careful, he might fling himself so high that he would be unable to
land--he might become a satellite of this grain of cosmic dust.

Mick hooked the lifeline from his belt to the rail of the platform and
stepped over the side. Instead of falling, he floated a few inches a
second downward to the ground. In gravity like this a man might jump
off Mt. Everest--if there were an Everest--and land without injury.

Alf, the square-jawed giant who manned the engines of the rocket ship,
emerged from the lower locks and fastened his lifeline to the iron
ladder extending to the ground.

"Look at that stuff, Mick," Alf spoke into his radio telephone. He
pointed to a dense growth, barely visible in Jupiter's light, just
north of the ship. "It looks like corn. Good old American maize!"

Mick who had been examining the damaged portion of the starboard
rockets, glanced in the direction Alf was pointing. In even, nicely
cultivated rows, stood tasseled stalks.

"You don't suppose this place is inhabited by men!" Alf's voice was
awed.

"It can't be. There's no air," Mick replied. "Anyhow, it isn't corn. It
must be something else. You know there are doubles all over the system.
The Martian pumpkins aren't even vegetables, but they're a species of
mollusk. Even if this is corn, it's different, because corn depends on
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere."

"Maybe there's carbon dioxide in the rocks."

"Then this wouldn't be like terrestrial maize. Its leaves would serve
some other purpose."

"Mick! Look!"

       *       *       *       *       *

As Alf spoke the rows of corn seemed to move. Bright phosphorescent
beads seemed to pop from the tassels and float toward the two human
beings.

Like a rain of meteors, the brilliant specks came floating through the
sky. But the brilliant shower fell with tantalizing slowness. Then one
of the sparks dropped short, twenty feet from the feet of the spacemen.
As it touched the ground, there was a bluish spark, and the rock
beneath it glowed with heat.

"Look out!" Mick cried. His hand unsnapped the lifeline. His legs
doubled beneath his body and he shot upward into the air. Suddenly he
plunged into daylight. The corona-crowned sun was sticking its head
over the horizon.

As Alf shot into the sky beside him, Mick noted that the ground was
still dark, and that the terminator line that delineated night and day,
still was a mile or so to the eastward, floating rapidly toward them.

There were other things about this weird planet that also struck
Mick's eyes. It was filled with growing things. Most of these were
single stalks, crowned with a bluish bud. But there was a terrestrial
note to some of the plants that clung to the rocks and sand of the
asteroid.

To the south was a huge tree, with gnarled branches and leaves. Tucked
away in a small gully were reddish flowers that looked like roses in
the distance. There were vines clinging to the rocks. The corn that
had first attracted attention of the spacemen, occupied a small,
rectangular patch and the stalks were so evenly spaced that the field
suggested artificial cultivation.

Slowly they came back toward the ground. Below was one of the budded
stalks which slowly nodded its tip toward the terrestrials as their
feet came in contact with the soil.

Mick was ready this time. His gun was in his hand as the little white
bead emerged from the tip of the bud. The gun sent a streak of flame
into the middle of the stalk, and the plant was sliced as neatly as a
knife could have cut through a stem.

"It's not nearly as pleasant here as I expected," Alf panted into the
phone of his space suit. "Who ever thought we'd have to fight plants on
an asteroid?"

Mick did not answer. Still clutching his gun, he was walking toward a
little path that led into a gully in the rocks. He moved cautiously,
halting at each turn in the little path, searching the gully ahead of
him. The path indicated animals, for plants do not walk.

Alf trailed behind, keeping his eyes peeled for fire-shooting plants,
and carefully gauging his steps to keep himself from sailing high into
the sky.

In the steep places along the path, there were steps carved into the
rock.

"It looks--almost human," came from Mick, "but why would a human being
need steps in this gravity?"

At the end of the gully was a cliff, fully one hundred feet high
flanked by a mound of sand. The path led toward this mound and in the
center was an iron door, looking all the world like the outer locks of
a space ship.

Toward this door the two men walked. Whatever doubts they had of a
human touch on this asteroid vanished at the sight of the door.
It was possible for nature to duplicate her works on two different
planets. The physiology of Martians, Venusians and terrestrials
had much in common. The processes of biochemistry are limited and
living types are always similar to some degree. Even on earth many
species of animals and plants which have no direct relationship may
possess resemblances--the fish and the whale, or certain reptiles and
amphibians.

But the airlocks of space ships were human inventions. There was small
likelihood that another race in the universe would mark its doors with
the Roman letters:

                        UNIVERSAL LOCK COMPANY
                          ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

The two spacemen stared speechlessly at the evidence of human
habitation. Then slowly the door swung open.

They waited for someone to emerge, but the silence of space remained
unbroken. The locks were empty, yet they had opened. Was someone
watching them from inside? If so, why didn't he hail them?

"Hello there!" Mick spoke on the universal wavelength into his
microphone.

No answer came.

"Maybe his radio's out of whack," Alf said. "Shall we go in?"

Alf started forward, but Mick seized his arm.

"Look!" he whispered. "Up there, above the door!"

Just above the door was a ledge, which neither man had noticed at
first. On this ledge stood a human figure. He wore no space suit, no
oxygen helmet and his head was bare.

An empty pistol holster dangled at his side and his hands were on his
hips. He was standing motionless in the cold of space watching the two
terrestrials below him.

"Great guns!"

The figure didn't move. He didn't even blink his eyes. He only stared.
Not a flicker of movement crossed his face.

"He's dead," Mick said. He bent his legs and shot up to the ledge
beside the man. "Dead and turned to stone!"

"Stone?"

"Ice, rather. He's frozen hard as a rock. Probably he's been here for
years. Not enough heat to thaw him out."

"But why hasn't he fallen down?" Alf asked.

"Why should he? There's hardly enough gravity to pull him down; there's
no wind to blow him down. There are no earthquakes on a planet as small
as this."

"How did he get there?"

Mick shrugged his shoulders. It was a puzzle, certainly; but there were
possible solutions. The first and most logical was that this fellow had
exposed himself, rather than to die a lingering death from starvation
or lack of oxygen.

"Let's take a look at his quarters," Mick suggested.

He dropped lightly to the ground and entered the lock. He quickly
inspected the lock control apparatus, making sure that the outer doors
would function properly. Then he closed the locks and opened the inner
doors.

The glass of Mick's space helmet frosted as warm air from the interior
struck its surface.

Wiping away the mist he stepped aside.

       *       *       *       *       *

Standing in the center of the room, smiling at them, was an exact
replica of the man they had seen on the ledge. But this one was alive!

"Welcome to Dead Man's planet!" the faint human voice drifted to the
ears of the men. "You may remove your helmets. The air here is pure and
there is plenty of it." The man's greenish eyes drifted down over the
figures of the human beings facing him. "But you needn't point your
guns at me."

The welcome was not as warm as the two spacemen might have expected
from an exile on the asteroid. There was a note in the pale-faced man's
voice that sounded false. It was not distrust that Mick felt, nor a
sense of danger, for there was nothing to indicate that this lonely man
intended to harm his visitors; but some subconscious reasoning in the
spaceman's brain seemed to detect an uncanny sort of insincerity. Mick
could not forget the grisly object on the ledge above the doorway. Why
hadn't the dead man been buried?

The pallid host watched the spacemen skin themselves of their airtight
suits and sniff the warm, sweet air of the buried spaceship.

"You're men," he said. "Men!"

"My name's Michael Conner, a space pilot; this is Alf Rankin, co-pilot
and engineer. We fused and blew a rocket on the earth-Jupiter orbit and
we landed here to make repairs."

The pallid man smiled. There was the cunning of the fox and the savage
craft of a spider in his expression.

"Call me Ghor," he said.

Mick's eyes cruised over the pointed face. Ghor was a strange name.
It wasn't terrestrial and it didn't sound like any of the Martian
dialects. Ghor might be a criminal, preferring exile to a life in
prison.

"You're a strange man, Ghor," Mick said. "You present a mystery. Are
you from Mars? How does it happen you live on this Godforsaken bit of
rock?"

"I was born here," Ghor said.

"Oh!" There was an awkward pause after this unexpected answer. Mick's
eyes unconsciously lifted toward the roof, above which stood the frozen
human figure.

"He was my father." Ghor spoke simply. His words were carefully and
slowly enunciated. Mick supposed that Ghor was unused to talking and
his brain worked slowly in the matter of words. But that brain was
keen. It seemed to read Mick's thoughts, answering an unspoken question
about the Dead Man.

"You must have an interesting history," Alf suggested.

"I have," Ghor replied. "But so have you. Tell me how you happened to
find my home. You might have repaired your ship and gone on, without
discovering me."

"There was a field of queer acting plants--they looked like maize,
except that they tried to kill us."

"Oh! My cornfield! I forgot the nasty habit the cornstalks have."

"You mean that stuff was corn?" Alf asked. "Real roasting ears?"

"Well, almost." Ghor's lips cracked into another of his nerve-racking
smiles. "You see the plants are really native of Dead Man's planet, but
I modified them into something quite close to terrestrial maize."

"By grafting and cross fertilization?"

"Oh no. There is a much different process of propagation of the species
here, much simpler. My corn was regenerated."

Ghor hobbled across the room toward an ultra-violet lamp beneath which
were two pots of flowers, both looking much like American beauty roses.
Ghor returned, with the same mincing steps, walking as if a leg injury
had limited the use of his knees.

"These flowers are beautiful," Ghor said, like a doctor of philosophy
announcing the first premise of a step in mathematics.

"Yes," Mick replied. "We noticed numbers of them growing in the rocks."

"I know. I placed them there, to make Dead Man's planet beautiful. But
they are quite useless."

"Oh, I wouldn't say that."

"I know what I am talking about. On earth, roses serve many purposes
aside from beauty. They help maintain the atmosphere by exchanging
carbon dioxide for oxygen; they fertilize the soil; they supply
insects, such as bees, with food. These roses extract carbon from the
rocks and give nothing in return, except their beauty. The soil is not
fertilized. There are no insects to feed. This flower has no pollen,
for it is purely ornamental, developed by myself for beauty's sake."

He took his fingers and pinched off the rose. As it dropped to the
floor, a whitish, gleaming pellet half emerged from the flower, but
Ghor quickly ground it underfoot.

"You see? That little projectile might have killed me. The flower
is vicious. Like other plants on this planet it utilizes organic
radioactivity to destroy other living plants."

"So that was what it was." Mick said. "Organic radioactivity!"

Ghor did not reply. His eyes were on the stem of the plant. It was
swaying gently, as if it possessed muscles. A little green bubble
formed on the end of the stem.

"Watch!" Ghor whispered.

The bubble enlarged and suddenly burst. There, in full bloom, was
another rose, just like the first that Ghor had broken from the stem.

"You see, gentlemen, your planet is not the only one that might have
the legend of the Hydra! You cut off the head of any plant and another
grows in its place. Sometimes two heads grow and by the process of
division--analogous with cell division--a new plant individual is
formed. The botanical life of Dead Man's planet carries regeneration
forward to such a degree that even the loss of a leaf, or of a thorn is
replaced in a few minutes, often in a few seconds. The plant life is so
hardy that when my father, whose name I never knew, attempted to clear
this space with fire, he found he had twice the growth of plants after
the fire."

"It's clear now," Alf said. "How did he do it?"

"By transplanting and controlled regeneration," Ghor said, smiling. "He
carried his experiments far. Most of the trees here were developed by
him. He found that certain injections transformed cell structures so
that he could cause the regenerated parts to assume almost any shape he
desired. My father's trees are nothing but Ngye stalks--mere weeds--so
transformed that they resemble the oaks, the elms, and the chestnuts of
the earth."

"And the corn, I suppose is merely a synthetic product?" Mick asked.

"It is a triumph of my own. The product is quite edible and tastes,
I assume, much like terrestrial maize, which I have never eaten. The
cells possess the same number of genes and chromosomes as Indian maize
and it is, therefore, biologically related, although the two types have
never been in contact."

"But there must be some difference. Maize doesn't throw radioactive
particles at cornhuskers!"

"That," smiled Ghor, "is probably an environmental factor. And it is
possible some of the genes are not exactly like maize genes."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ghor and the two earthmen talked for hours. He showed off his little
establishment, buried to conserve heat, under the sand of the asteroid.
It was equipped with air purifying apparatus, electrical devices and
heaters, all supplied with plant generated power. Ghor cooked a meal,
entirely vegetarian, that tasted little different from its terrestrial
counterpart. The bread was indistinguishable from that made from
wheat flour, the potatoes had exactly the same taste as terrestrial
tubers--in fact every item had its counterpart on earth, yet it was
supplied from carefully developed plants of the asteroid.

Ghor told other facts about his home.

Dead Man's planet turned on its axis once every nine and one-half
hours. Its average temperature was about forty degrees below zero and
this temperature remained fairly constant because of the small diameter
and surface of the asteroid.

Mick's perplexity over the degree of trust to be placed in Ghor wavered
as the conversation continued through the day. Ghor's actions did not
appear suspicious. Ghor himself, pale and weak and a product of zero
gravity, was hardly to be feared, except through trickery. But there
were words, sentences and phrases dropped by the exile from time to
time that indicated deep mystery and hidden horror. There were certain
unanswered questions that were clues to questions that were not asked.

Behind this mystery, Mick noted a beseeching look that appeared
from time to time on Ghor's pinched face. It was the air of a man
asking pardon for a crime. Yet, what crime had been committed? Ghor's
experiments were contribution to universal knowledge. On earth they
would be hailed as discoveries and Ghor would be honored and rewarded
for his work. Surely Ghor had committed no crime in his development of
alien plants into terrestrial forms.

Ghor's work had been done in the same manner that an experienced
airplane pilot flies blind in a fog. He had never seen corn and
potatoes, yet he had created them. His sole guides were books in the
library and sound motion pictures bearing on botany that had been left
behind by Ghor's nameless father. Ghor was more than a Robinson Crusoe;
he was a Tarzan in the jungle of space.

The only unseemly exhibit in this island of the sky was the frozen
body of Ghor's father on the ledge above the buried space ship. This,
however, could be considered in the light of environment. On an airless
bit of rock, where nothing decayed, burial in the ground was like
offering the human body as food for the roots of millions of obscene
plants. Burial seemed more of a sacrilege than the placing of the body
on a rock as a flesh and blood monument.

After a rest during the short, five-hour night, Ghor offered to take
the spacemen back to their ship to make repairs.

"It isn't that I wish to hurry your departure," he said, "but I realize
that my life here is very dull. Except to tell you of my work, I have
nothing to offer in the way of entertainment."

"Wouldn't you want to go back to Terra with us?" Mick asked.

Again that cunning, deceptive expression crossed Ghor's face.

"No," he said. He did not elaborate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ghor's method of avoiding the radioactive pellets cast from the buds
of the weird plants of the asteroid, was akin to the degaussing
process used by ships in mine-infested waters. The plants sensed their
enemies through the minute electrical currents that are present in all
living organisms, Ghor explained. They cast their pellets at all alien
organisms that came near.

"You mean grow near?"

"There are a few mobile plants on Dead Man's planet." Ghor explained.

They had emerged from the locks of the ship and they were moving down
the gulley. Ghor walked in his usual stiff-legged stride and clad as he
was in a spacesuit, he appeared to be some sort of mechanical monster.

As they emerged from the gulley and came to the place where Mick had
slashed down the budded stalk with his ray gun, Ghor halted. The
shriveled burned bud lay on the ground, but the stalk had disappeared.

The earphones in Mick's spacesuit caught Ghor's startled gasp:

"Ngye!"

"It attacked us yesterday after we jumped out of the corn patch," Alf
was explaining. "Mick knocked it over with his ray gun."

"It is the first one that has ventured on this side of the planet in
several years," Ghor explained. "It's one of the mobile plants I was
speaking of. You see, the stem has regenerated a new bud and has moved
on."

"We saw several of them--"

"Several!" Ghor seemed to stiffen. "Gentlemen. It is not safe here. We
must go back to my cabin. The Ngye is one plant that is deadly."

"I thought your father made trees out of them," Mick said.

"At first they were docile. My father developed many kinds of plants
from them and I myself created the corn from hybrid Ngye plants, but
the process of survival played a curious prank by developing in the
untouched plants a sense of hatred for these new variations, as well
as an everlasting enmity for my father and myself. It was as if these
plants resented being made over into alien forms. My father developed
a poisonous substance which he spread on the soil which drove the Ngye
plants to the other side of the planet. Apparently they have come back.
It means, my friends, that mankind must go to war to save himself and
his products."

Ghor already was walking rapidly back toward the gully.

"Couldn't you make some other poison to get rid of them again?" Alf
asked.

"I might, but it would take time. And--" Ghor seemed to choke, "--it
was the poison that killed my father."

As Ghor reached the first turn in the gulley, he halted and then sprang
back. A gleaming spark landed at his feet and heated the rock to
incandescense.

"Trapped!" he groaned. "There's a forest of Ngyes in the path ahead of
us."

Mick pushed forward, his ray gun in hand. He caught a glimpse of a
forest of leafless stems, surmounted by ugly, bulging bulbs. Ghor
tugged Mick back, just as a shower of sparks shot from the stalks.

"How do they know where we are?" Mick asked. "Doesn't our degaussing
equipment work?"

"The Ngye has more sensitive perception than most plants. You forget
the radio waves from our phones. The plants are able to find us by
those."

"Maybe we can rush them," Mick suggested. "Alf and I can use our ray
guns to burn a path through to the cabin--"

Ghor shook his head.

"No. Before we seared half of them, the rest would have melted us into
grease. Besides, fire won't work with them. It will only multiply our
enemies."

A warning cry came from Alf.

"They're behind us, too!"

Mick glanced down the gulley. A moving forest was circling the bend.
The Ngyes seemed to progress with an amoebic motion, as if their roots
tugged them along over the loosely packed soil.

"Quick, Alf! Take Ghor's arm. We can jump for it!"

As Mick shouted, he seized Ghor's right arm. Alf took the left arm of
the asteroid man. The three shot upward into the air, propelled by the
earth-born strength of the spacemen. The ground where they stood a
moment before turned red beneath a shower of tiny radioactive pellets.

       *       *       *       *       *

As they shot into the sunlit sky, their eyes saw Ngyes on all sides.
They lined the valley. The cornfield was ablaze with light as the
budded plants and hybrid maize battled for existence. Even the rocks
above the gulley sprouted hundreds of the swaying stems.

"We're in for it," Mick said. "Wherever we land, we'll be in a patch of
them. We'd better shut off our telephones and try to slip through--"

"No! Our steps on the soil will be sensed by the roots. We'd never walk
a dozen yards. But you might make it by jumping--"

Ghor broke off suddenly. His head turned toward a grove of the enemy
stalks directly below. Two of the stalks had bent close to the ground,
placing their bulbs beneath the roots of a third. Suddenly the bent
stalks straightened, catapulting the third stalk into the air, like an
arrow toward the three floating men.

Mick's gun blasted the stalk and it withered in flame in mid-air.

But other stalks were shooting toward them now.

Ghor was struggling desperately.

"Let me go!" he whispered. "Turn loose of my arm. Remember, the gravity
here will not let me fall faster than you."

Ghor suddenly wrenched loose. From a pocket of his spacesuit flashed a
knife.

"Stop!" It was Alf who first sensed Ghor's intention, but his action
was too slow to stop what followed.

The knife slashed through the fabroid spacesuit, deep into the neck of
the asteroid man. A spray of red blood shot into the airless sky.

A curious sort of tremor seemed to shake the stalks below. The reddish
spray seemed to strike fear into the waving buds. The living forest
pushed back away from the spray of human blood.

When the men dropped to the ground the Ngyes were retreating.

But Ghor lay lifeless beside them.

"That was the poison that killed the Ngyes--and that killed his
father," Mick said. "Human blood! It's ghastly."

"We'll put him on the ledge," Alf said. "I think he'd like that. Lord!
To think that we didn't trust him at first. He's a hero, Mick! A hero
as great as any in the history of mankind!"

A day later the two terrestrials, protected by the degaussers,
completed the repairs on their space ship.

"I think we ought to go back to the cabin, Alf," Mick suggested.

"Yeah. We ought to pay our respects to Ghor. We owe him more than he'll
ever know."

Once more they stumbled up the gulley. They kicked aside a few dead
Ngye stalks that had been killed by the lifeblood of Ghor as they
followed the turns of the pathway. At last they reached the locks.

"Mick!"

Alf was pointing to the ledge above the locks. Only one human figure,
its arms akimbo, eyes staring down the gulley, stood on the ledge. Ghor
was gone.

Slowly the locks opened. Through the door, unhelmeted, unprotected by a
spacesuit, came Ghor.

"He's alive!"

Ghor smiled--that same crooked, half mysterious smile. He lifted his
hand and held a microphone close to his lips.

"I hoped you wouldn't come back. I didn't want you to know I was a
failure."

"A failure! Man, you're a hero!" Mick said.

"I'm not a man. If I had been a man, I would have died. But, you see,
I am not a man. I am a product of my father's botany. You see, I, like
all of the things that look like terrestrial things on this planet, was
developed from the lowly Ngye. It had been my hope that I was no longer
a plant, but a man. I had read men's books; studied his pictures;
learned his arts. But I am not a man. I am a failure."

From the door came another being--an identical image of Ghor.

"This," Ghor said, "is my son. The result of my wound yesterday."

Mick walked forward and took the hands of the two asteroid men.

"If you're not men," he said, "you're something greater."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Dead Man's Planet, by R. R. Winterbotham

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEAD MAN'S PLANET ***

***** This file should be named 61919.txt or 61919.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/9/1/61919/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
