Project Gutenberg's The Thought-Men of Mercury, by R. R. Winterbotham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Thought-Men of Mercury

Author: R. R. Winterbotham

Release Date: May 22, 2020 [EBook #62199]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE THOUGHT-MEN OF MERCURY ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                      THE THOUGHT-MEN OF MERCURY

                         By R. R. WINTERBOTHAM

                  Hall and Upjohn had to escape from
                 that "No-man's-land" on Mercury. But
                to form a plan, they had to think--and
                    their captors could read minds.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


It was neither night nor day, but a sort of nether world of twilight.
The huge fern-like plants, flashing phosphorescence under the green
corona light, seemed to close in after Cappy Upjohn and Terry Hall like
prison bars in the windows of a dungeon.

Cappy, who was leading the way, paused and waited for Terry. As the
huge, leonine man turned, his lips curled into a taunting smile.

Terry's eyes moved from side to side, watching the weird shadows,
dodging the sweep of the giant ferns as they moved in the wind.

"Scared!" Cappy ridiculed.

"I can't help it!" the younger man said. "This place gives me the
creeps."

Cappy's great laugh echoed above the howl of the winds. "This is
Mercury. Half day, half night everlastingly. Right here is the
battleground of roasting heat and perpetual cold. A twenty-mile strip
of habitable land between two kinds of hell. What the devil did you
expect, Tenderfoot?"

Cappy grunted in disgust, turned and picked his way through the ferns.
Terry, his jaw set grimly, followed. Cappy had been through all this
before. Twice he'd landed on Venus, and he'd been with the only
previous expedition to Mercury. But Terry knew that fear was a human
emotion, and that there were things even Cappy was afraid of.

The wind died a moment. Between an opening in the ferns Terry caught a
glimpse of a ghostly face, more simian than an ape's, less human than
a man's. At the same time he felt something that was like a breeze
through his brain. A painless stab of thought,

"Cappy--look!" Terry pointed at the face peering through the opening
in the ferns, and his hand clawed at the rifle he had slung over his
shoulder. In all respects it was like an old-fashioned gun, but it
fired a deadly bullet that was capable of complete annihilation of
whatever it hit. A single bullet from a flourobeam gun was powerful
enough to wipe out a steel ball ten feet in diameter.

But Terry's hands slipped away from his gun. He recognized his action
as more than fear. It was panic.

Cappy had been too surprised at the sight of the grinning face to
notice Terry's action. Now the youth had control of himself.

"Great guns! This is something new, lad! A living creature on Mercury!"

"I tried to tell you, Cappy!" Terry said. "I've seen 'em. I've felt 'em
for the past hour!"

"Felt 'em? Did they touch you?"

"It's something I can't describe. It's like poking a finger into our
brains. It doesn't hurt, but it feels uncomfortable. It's like being
watched by someone you can't see."

Cappy's boldness seemed to tarnish a little. A suggestion of a shudder
seemed to pass over the man. He straightened and shook it off.

"Pooh! Imagination, Terry!"

Cappy took a step toward the creature. The eyes seemed to flash.
Perhaps it was a reflection from the corona streamers stretching above
the horizon to the west. Cappy halted as the creature seemed to shrink
away.

"Hold on!" Cappy called. "Don't go away! We've got to see that
creature, Terry. Get it back! Can you stop it!"

There was no mistaking that the animal was intelligent. Perhaps it felt
the same emotions that raced through Terry's body.

"Let me try," Terry said. His heart was pounding, but science had to
know if intelligent life existed in Mercury's twilight zone.

Terry stripped the gun from his shoulders and laid it on the ground. He
pushed passed Cappy and walked toward the creature. Terry's hands were
extended, palms outward.

The creature hesitated. Its eyes flashed again and once more Terry felt
something cold in his skull.

The ferns parted and the creature stepped out into view.

       *       *       *       *       *

It had two stubby legs, two long arms. Its head was pear-shaped and
hairless, and its body was an ovoid ball, bloated and ugly. But its
eyes were almost human except that they seemed to flash fire.

Terry halted, facing the creature.

"Terryhall of the earth!" The creature's voice echoed through the ferns.

"You--you speak English!" The words that fell from Terry's lips
mirrored his surprise. In his mind flashed a name for this creature.
Something like _Zombie_, the living dead.

"Not Zombie. Name is Chomby. I am not dead, not even living dead."

"You read my mind! That's what I've felt for the past hour. You were
studying my thoughts, and you learned my language by reading my mind!"

Chomby's rubbery lips tried to imitate a grin, but it achieved only a
hideous travesty.

Chomby's hand rubbed over the leathery rags he wore for clothing and
reached toward the earthman. The gesture was unmistakable. Chomby
wanted to shake hands. The Mercurian had been thorough in his probe
of Terry's brain. His actions were more human than Terry's under the
circumstances, for Terry was afraid.

"Nothing to fear from Chomby," spoke the Mercurian.

Terry took the hand. It was leathery and cold.

"I am glad to meet you," Terry said. He forced the words from his lips.
"We came to Mercury on a peaceful mission."

"You're afraid, Terryhall," Chomby replied. "I do not intend to kill
you. Nor will I hurt Cappyupjohn."

Cappy brushed forward and shook hands with Chomby. He concealed a wince
as he touched the creature's corpse-like flesh.

Then he unstrapped the caseknife he wore at his side and handed it to
Chomby. "A gift of friendship," he said.

Chomby reached awkwardly toward the knife. As he took it, the knife
fell to the ground. Chomby leaned over and fumbled. He could hardly
grasp the knife. Terry noted now what had been so repulsive about
Chomby's handshake. The Mercurian had no thumb.

Instead of the five-fingered hand of a human being, there were only
three flabby fingers on the end of a round, gristly hand.

Terry stooped and picked up the knife. He handed it to the Mercurian
who seized it in both hands and clutched it to his body.

"You want food and drink?" Chomby asked. "Terryhall and Cappyupjohn
follow me to my village. Sorry I have no gift of friendship otherwise.
My people are unskilled in handicraft. We can hardly make our own
clothes."

Chomby led the earthmen eastward. The shadows deepened and the sky grew
dark. The stars appeared; among them the brilliant blue planet that was
Earth.

Again Chomby read Terry's thoughts.

"You come from that one?" he asked, pointing. "You are from the sky?"

Terry answered, but Chomby seemed to read the thoughts that Terry
flashed through his mind.

"Spaceship. Machines. Rockets." The Mercurian rolled the words in his
mouth. "You come from a great race, Terryhall and Cappyupjohn. My
people want to learn skill with our hands, to be like you."

"It would be nice if we could read your minds," Cappy said, tossing a
glance toward Terry.

"You are suspicious men," Chomby said. "I read your mind and I know you
do not trust me. You fear a trap. That is why you carry your guns. But
there is nothing to fear from Chomby's people. You will think them
very primitive."

The cold winds lashed at the earthmen and nipped through the heavy
clothing they wore. Terry and Cappy lowered a plastic windshield from
their caps to protect their faces from frostbite.

Vegetation grew more scarce and at last they walked across a rocky
plain toward a row of towering basalt cliffs. The feeble light that
came from the outer fringe of the corona revealed a row of caves at the
base of the cliffs and from these emerged a hundred or so ill-fashioned
beings resembling Chomby.

The Mercurian gave no cry, nor warning of his approach. He apparently
had notified his people by telepathy, for they rushed silently to meet
him. Chomby lapsed into silence, turning from one of his kinsfolk to
another, answering questions without speaking.

Cappy stared at the Mercurians. His leonine figure marched through
the ill-shapen creatures confidently and unafraid. Doubts crept into
Terry's mind. There were too many Mercurians. Despite the powerful
weapons strapped to the earthmen's backs, they could not hope to escape
imprisonment, if these savages sought to hold them.

Chomby led the men to a cave in the center of the village. He turned to
Terry.

"My people think you are queer, Terryhall," Chomby said. "But it is
evident to them that you think the same about us. But we are all one
people. Terryhall and Cappyupjohn are not the same. Terryhall is
afraid, while Cappyupjohn is a man of rock. Are you not of the same
race?"

"More or less," Cappy said, deridingly. "Terry doesn't understand you
and he fears what he doesn't understand. I've learned to control fear,
so I am not afraid."

"You trust us?" Chomby seemed surprise.

"No," Cappy replied. "I don't trust anything, but I'm not afraid of
you."

"What if we should intend to keep you here?" Chomby asked. "Terry sees
himself as a prisoner, a slave. He fears he will never return to the
earth."

"I still have my gun," Cappy said.

"There are many of us," Chomby said, his lips gaping again in that
imitation grin. "We could overpower you and kill you."

"I'd take some of you with me," Cappy replied, defiantly. "I'd go out
in a blaze of glory."

       *       *       *       *       *

Chomby studied the earthman. "I believe you would. In your world such
a trait would be considered admirable. You are hard, Cappyupjohn, and
brave. But it is not your kind that makes your race so great. Your
world is a coward's world. It was built by men who are afraid."

Cappy choked. "You lie!"

"We have read your minds, earthmen," Chomby said. "We understand the
civilization from the mental pictures you carry in your minds. You have
great brains, but skilled as they are they are nothing in comparison
with ours. It was not your brain that made your world, but your love
of security. You feared wild beasts, so you killed them. You feared
hunger, so you stored food. You built weapons to defend yourself
against enemies. You sought out new worlds in fleeing from dangers of
the old. If your race had not known fear, it would have never done
these things."

"Men died to win that security," Cappy replied. "That wasn't cowardice,
was it?"

"They died fighting, which meant that they hoped to win. Their chance
of victory was more attractive than the insecurity that would come
with defeat," Chomby replied. "My people wish to keep you here. We
want to learn more about the emotion called fear that has made your
civilization so great."

"You'll never keep us!" growled Cappy. His hand automatically touched
the gun on his shoulder.

"That is the fear I speak of," Chomby said. "You would rather die than
be a prisoner. In a different way Terryhall has the same emotion. But
he does not risk so recklessly. He would rather avoid the situation
that makes fighting necessary. He is a brave man, too, Cappyupjohn, but
in a different way."

"He's yellow!" Cappy said vehemently. "He's worse than no help at all."

The earthmen rested, but they were not left alone. Chomby seemed
always to be near. Although Chomby insisted the earthmen were not
prisoners, he made it plain they would not be allowed to leave for a
time.

"We must study you," he said. "In turn, you may study us."

"I'm warning you, Chomby," Cappy roared. "We'll stand just so much of
this thing. We'll stay until we've studied you enough, but when we want
to go, we're going--or we'll die trying."

"That time is not here," Chomby said, wrinkling his lips again.

       *       *       *       *       *

The icy mental probing of the Mercurians grew familiar to Terry and
Cappy. There was nothing the earthmen could think of that these eerie,
repulsive-looking creatures did not understand. That the Mercurians
read Terry's thoughts so easily was often embarrassing, for Terry knew
that they were aware of his repugnance toward them, as well as Terry's
distrust and fear.

But Chomby and his people seemed to accept Terry's opinion of them
understandingly. Not one of them made a move to remove either Terry's
or Cappy's guns.

After a first period of mental probing Chomby urged the earthmen to
instruct the Mercurians in some simple crafts. Now the earthmen enjoyed
the sense of superiority that previously had been a monopoly of the
Mercurians. The simplest pieces of handiwork were almost beyond, the
Mercurians. The hands of these creatures, without thumbs and with
stiff fingers, were clumsy. Weaving was an arduous task. Construction
of a simple, primitive thatched dwelling was attempted and abandoned,
when Cappy found that it would require months to complete. It was not
because the Mercurians did not understand what had to be done--they
knew this the instant the terrestrials pictured the idea in their
minds. But the tasks were nearly impossible for the Mercurians.

Terry taught a few of the creatures to write, but the rest could not
master the process, although every one of them had learned to read by
watching Terry's mind at work.

Cappy grew more contemptuous of the Mercurians as he watched their
bungling efforts at the simplest human arts.

"We haven't anything to be afraid of from these creatures, Terry," he
said.

Terry shook his head.

"They've got brains, Cappy. They know everything we know and a lot
of things we don't. They read us like a book. They know our thoughts
before we know them ourselves."

"It isn't thought that wins battles. It's power. Oh, brains help, but
only when used in the application of the proper weapons. Why with our
guns and fists we probably could lick this whole village. I'm sure they
haven't coordination enough to fight hand-to-hand with us singly."

"But they're too smart to let us out-maneuver them," Terry said.
"There's a principle that seems to work in society that makes me afraid
of these Mercurians. In the history of our own planet, it has always
been the brains which exploited the brawn among men. People who thought
of things usually took ascendancy over those who tried to progress
by the sweat of their brow. For instance, everyone knows Columbus
discovered America, but who knows the name of the man who built the
ships he sailed in? LeCompton designed the first successful spacecraft,
but the name of the man who tooled the intricate parts of its mechanism
and made it successful has been completely forgotten."

"You mean we're likely to become slaves of these--these Zombies?"

"Since we came to this village they've changed," Terry said. "These
Zombies--as you call them--are learning fear. They see their world,
lashed by cold and hot winds, freezing and roasting, as an insecure
place. A violent storm might burn up their food supply, or freeze their
crops. For the first time they've seen fear as a safeguard to their
future. Now they want to build. They want places to store food; homes
to protect them from cold. They want means of transportation, to escape
uninhabitable spots. They know the value of fear, but they cannot
conquer it because they are physiologically incapable of conquering
their environment. When they realize this--if they don't realize it
already--they'll force us to conquer their environment for them. Every
earthman unfortunate enough to land on Mercury will become a slave--"

"Great Scott, Terry!" Cappy exclaimed. "I believe you are right. Your
fear has been warning us all along to get out of this place. Get your
gun ready, we're going back to the space ship--"

The light from the entrance of the cave was blotted out. Chomby stood
before them, followed by a horde of his fellow beings.

"You recognized fear too late, Cappyupjohn," Chomby said.

The two earthmen tried to level their guns, but the Mercurians attacked
too quickly. The leathery fists struck home and the guns slipped from
the earthmen's grasps.

       *       *       *       *       *

A transformation occurred in front of the row of caves in the basalt
cliff. Windbreaks appeared in the openings in the wall. Rude machines
were set up to build houses of stone and covered passages from cave to
cave. From the fibrous ferns Terry constructed rude looms for weaving
cloth. Stone mills for grinding the pulpy fruit of the Mercurian trees
into flour were designed.

How long the two earthmen had been prisoners on Mercury they had no way
of telling, for there was neither night nor day, nor seasons in the
twilight zone. But the Earth had disappeared over the south horizon
and reappeared in the north and Cappy estimated that two-thirds of the
Mercurian year of 88 days had passed.

"We won't be here another year," Terry said.

Cappy snorted. "I wouldn't bet."

"They're getting careless," Terry pointed out. "They used to have a
dozen men guarding us day and night. If we even got a little too far
away from the village, we'd be shoved back. Now only one Zombie is
guarding us. We're allowed to go almost anywhere, except near the
spaceship."

"They read our minds, so they're always two jumps ahead of us, Terry.
No. The principle of brains over brawn can't be beaten. We're licked."

"I'm not," Terry announced. "Once you called me a coward--you said I
was yellow. But a coward isn't the man who is afraid, it's the man
that lets fear get the upperhand. You're being a coward now, Cappy.
You're admitting that Chomby and his pals have the Injun sign on us.
I'm not admitting it. It isn't brains that makes men the rulers of nine
planets, and it isn't fear. Man has something else that gives him a
physiological edge. I'm going to find out what that is. When we find
it, we'll be free men again."

"When you find it, the Mercurians will know. They'll be ready to keep
us from using the weapon--whatever it is--before we know we've got it."

"Some day we'll have a chance. Some day we'll have a chance to slug our
guard and get back to the spaceship--"

Terry paused. He looked at the dozing Mercurian at the mouth of the
cave. Even as Terry looked the Mercurian roused out of his sleep. The
thought thread had roused the guard from a deep slumber.

"Now!" Terry yelled. "Now's our chance!"

Terry sprang. The guard tried to seize the stone club at his side, but
his clumsy hand was not made for swift action. Terry was on him before
the guard could send out a mental alarm and the young earthman's fist
crashed against the base of the guard's skull.

Terrestrial muscles, built for a heavier force of gravity, delivered
a sledgehammer blow. The guard toppled forward. Terry leaped over the
figure and darted into the open.

Another figure rose before Terry, but again Terry's fist smashed.

Cappy was beside Terry now and together they raced toward the path that
led in the direction of the spaceship.

"They'll follow us!" Cappy said. "They can trail us by our thoughts. If
we miss the ship and have to double back, we'll run into them."

"We won't miss!" Terry said.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sudden formulation of the escape plan had been too quick for even
the Mercurian brains to block. Terry and Cappy were racing into the
forest of ferns far ahead of their pursuers. The coordinated muscles
of the earthmen were far more capable of traveling swiftly than those
of the Mercurians behind and sounds of pursuit grew fainter in the
distance.

But Terry knew that these creatures were dogged. They would follow
until the spaceship's rockets blasted loose from the planet.

"Remember," Terry whispered, "don't act on any set plan. Don't plan
what you'll do when you meet 'em. If you do they'll be prepared for it.
Act on impulse, before they know what you intend to do."

"I'll remember," Cappy panted.

Was it impulse that made terrestrials the masters of the universe?
Terry wondered. It hardly seemed logical, yet impulse had given them
their first chance of freedom. But impulse might lead them astray.
First thoughts are not always the best thoughts. True enough, man had
made some strides by accident, but far more of his greatest discoveries
and most useful inventions had been the result of years of labor and
careful planning. No, it wasn't impulse. Some other weapon had to be
used to defeat the Mercurians decisively. Terry and Cappy might escape
through luck, but some day there would be a final, decisive battle
that would employ the one thing that gave man an advantage over the
semi-human monsters of the first planet.

Terry hoped he could discover that weapon now.

They had been over the route to the spaceship three times. Once in
company with Chomby on their first trip to the Mercurian village. They
had returned in company with a guard and come back again later.

Terry had noted a few landmarks and now he began to spot them again. A
curious-shaped rock; a spring of moulten metal; a deep fissure in the
soil.

But as they traveled toward the sun's corona the air grew warmer.
Vegetation became profuse and the trail was more difficult to find. But
Cappy had kept his eyes open, too. Between them they made their way,
slower and slower.

Suddenly Terry stopped. An icy finger had passed over his brain. A
wordless thought flashed into his consciousness.

"This is Chomby, Terryhall. Go back, or you will be unmercifully
killed."

Cappy looked at Terry. The same thought had flashed through his brain.

"I am ahead of you, earthmen. I am waiting in front of the spaceship.
In my hands I hold a flourobeam gun. You cannot pass me, earthmen!"

Cappy groaned.

"They're still two jumps ahead, Terry! They've outfigured us again.
They knew we might get away by accident. So they put Chomby out here to
intercept us and he's armed with our weapons!"

Terry was afraid. He knew the power of a flourobeam. He'd seen it
blast rocks into powder and he knew that a man could never survive its
charge. One blast from the gun could wipe out all trace of Terry and
Cappy.

Terry's face paled. Then, suddenly, he moved forward.

"Come on, Cappy! You said I was yellow once. Let's see who's yellow
now!"

"But that gun! This isn't being brave! It's foolhardy. The better part
of valor is knowing when you're licked."

"Come on," Terry said, moving ahead.

"You're a fool, Terry," Cappy said. "But you've got guts! Now listen to
reason!"

But Terry would not listen. He moved forward. Cappy, sweating, came
following.

"It's suicide!" cried the older man.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the center of a clearing stood the spaceship. The streaks of the
corona revealed a figure, huge, hideous and ape-like, standing before
the locks.

It was Chomby, holding the flourobeam gun, aiming at the two
terrestrials who emerged from the forest.

"If you come closer, I'll shoot!" It was a thought, not a voice, that
flashed toward the men, but the words were as clear as if Chomby had
spoken.

"We're licked, Terry!" Cappy said. "I'll surrender."

Slowly Cappy's hands went over his head.

"And what about you, Terryhall?"

Terry stood in the clearing, looking at the Mercurian. The young man's
face was pale and green beneath the corona glow.

"This is a war of the worlds, Chomby," he said. "It's a fight between
your race and mine. It's a Waterloo for one of us."

"You haven't a chance, Terryhall. You know the power of this gun."

Terry's lips tightened into a thin, straight line. His body crouched
for an instant and then he sprang. The terrestrial muscles sent him
shooting toward Chomby. His feet touched the ground again, and like
steel springs he shot forward a second time.

Chomby's fingers tightened on the trigger of the weapon. They seemed to
twitch.

Cappy closed his eyes.

An inhuman scream rent the Mercurian air. But the gun did not go off.

Cappy opened his eyes to see Terry and the monster rolling on the
ground. Terry's fingers were closed about the Mercurian's throat.
Chomby struggled feebly, and then lay still.

Terry rose, picked up the gun and motioned to Cappy.

"Put down your hands and start moving your legs. Get into those locks
before the rest of them get here!"

Cappy's jaw worked up and down, but words did not come from his throat.
Somehow he moved. He ran into the locks and a moment later he was at
the controls.

"Let 'er go!" Terry said.

Cappy, still speechless, pressed the charger. The rockets roared. The
machine lurched skyward and Mercury was left behind.

"What happened?" Cappy asked.

"I just remembered that when we were last carrying the guns we had the
safety catches on. The catches are released with the thumb. Chomby
couldn't do it! He couldn't have shot me, even though he wanted to. The
safety catches are such a small piece of the flourobeam mechanism that
we never think of them. Chomby didn't have a chance to read our minds
about the safety catch until it was too late."

"Terry," Cappy said. "I'll take back everything I said about you being
yellow. You've got guts! More than I have, Terry."

"Guts? Hell, Cappy, I was scared to death every second."





End of Project Gutenberg's The Thought-Men of Mercury, by R. R. Winterbotham

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE THOUGHT-MEN OF MERCURY ***

***** This file should be named 62199.txt or 62199.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/1/9/62199/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
