Project Gutenberg's Star of Panadur, by Albert dePina and Henry Hasse

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Star of Panadur

Author: Albert dePina
        Henry Hasse

Release Date: May 28, 2020 [EBook #62253]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR OF PANADUR ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            STAR OF PANADUR

                   BY ALBERT de PINA AND HENRY HASSE

             On the barren wastes of Europa, two marooned
            men fought, battling over an animal whose life
           one had saved. There was no fear in the animal's
          eyes--only the gleam of a weird unearthly knowledge
              that foretold the way the fight would end.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories March 1943.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"Hugh! Hugh! There's life here ... look ... look at this! Found it in a
cavern!" The shrill voice was exultant and gleeful.

Hugh Betancourt quickly rose from the fire he tended, and turned
startled eyes on the furry bundle Jim Brannigan grasped firmly by the
scruff of its neck. At first, nothing was visible but the liquid sheen
of the thing's silvery fur; but as Jim roughly thrust it out, Hugh
gave an involuntary gasp of surprise. The creature's small, triangular
face was nothing less than beautiful! Its eyes were soft and large and
luminous, like beryls, set wide apart. Above its broad forehead a short
mane of silver fur, beginning in a widow's peak, fell back cloud-soft
and shimmering. It was about three feet tall, slim, furred to the
throat-line; a strange biped with slender arms and six-fingered hands.

"Damn it, Jim, go easy! You've all but strangled it! Here give it to
me." Hugh extended his arms.

"Don't let it get away from you, it's faster than a jack-rabbit," Jim
cautioned, extending the ham-sized hand in which he held the creature.
"Luckily, I surprised it in a sort of cave-like gully, where it
couldn't escape. It means food, Hugh! Lots of food if we can find more
of these animals!"

For a moment, the incipient madness of many days on this hellish
satellite engulfed Hugh in a wave of nausea. He remembered the
gravity-screen tearing from its pivots, and the space-ship caught in
the tremendous pull of Jupiter; the last desperate try at the controls,
and then the tiny dark bulk of Europa curving up to met them headlong.
There had been cheerless days of biting cold when the tiny satellite
faced the distant pallid sun. There had been nights that were like a
canto out of Dante, as they were bathed in Jupiter's red cold-glow.
More recently, and for more reason, Hugh remembered the dwindling food
supply which had now quite vanished.

"Yes, food," Hugh echoed Jim's words in a hoarse whisper. He grasped
the soft warm body in his hands with gentle firmness. The creature
did not try to escape, it lay limp and inert with its eyes closed.
"But--but food doesn't quite solve our problem. Unless we can find some
oxide crystal to alloy in the portable smelter, we're sunk. Jim, that
jagged hole in the prow isn't going to repair itself!"

Jim's ordinarily red face grew redder with anger, until there was no
distinguishing between the color of his hair and that of his face.
"All right," he snarled, "so we need the oxide! For days we've been
searching all over this cold hell for some, and where are we? I still
maintain our immediate problem is food!"

"Yes, yes, food," Hugh murmured. Why, he wondered vaguely, was he so
reluctant to talk about it while he held this limp warm creature in
his arms? He looked down at it again, and was startled to find himself
staring into its extraordinary eyes. Limpid, brilliant, full of a
semi-human intelligence now, they were scarcely a foot from Hugh's own
eyes--and for a single instant Hugh had the crazy idea that they were
filled with a strange fixity of purpose, almost as if it were trying to
convey something to him there in the appalling silence of Europa.

       *       *       *       *       *

A sudden cold came over Hugh that was not the cold of Europa. It took
quite an effort for him to tear his own eyes away, then he laughed and
whispered inquiringly of himself, "Am I going crazy? Maybe this place
is beginning to get me at last. For a moment I thought...."

He shrugged uneasily.

"What are you mumbling?" Jim demanded irritably, his huge form bulking
against the bizarre jagged landscape. "I'd have slit that thing's
throat and skinned it already? Here, give it----"

"Wait, you fool!" Hugh's ordinarily thoughtful, hazel eyes were bright
now and hard, as he drew back from Jim's grasping hand. "We're the
first to find life on Europa, the only ones to see what inhabits it;
and all you can think of is your damned stomach. You can't be starved,
you ate this morning!"

"Yes, and that was the last of it," Jim snarled. His face was ugly now
and purposeful. "Well, I'm hungry again, and now that I've found these
Europan kangaroos I aim to be fed and kept warm. Notice how fine that
pelt is?"

Hugh had noticed, indeed. He had noticed even more, the peculiar sheen
and aliveness of it, as if it were surcharged with a definite energy.
As he held the creature close, a warm feeling of well-being slowly
diffused through him. And something, _something_ like a faint echo in
his brain was like a shadowy background to his thoughts. Yes, he knew;
here was food and here was warm fur against the eternal cold of the
satellite. But their space suits protected them in a measure against
the cold, and if necessary they could subsist a few more days without
eating. Perhaps by then they would find some of the rare crystal oxide,
enough to repair their ship and leave. Perhaps....

It was a long chance, almost an impossibility, and Hugh knew it; but
now, also, he knew what he must do.

He did it. With a distasteful glance at his now openly-belligerent
partner, he stepped forward. Then with unexpected suddenness he lurched
as if he'd lost his footing on the rough terrain. He stumbled sideways.
He twisted and fell deliberately to the ground. He opened his arms wide.

It was rather clumsily done, Hugh realized that instantly.

       *       *       *       *       *

For an infinitesimal moment, the furry creature sprawled too, immobile,
where Hugh's momentum had flung it. It gazed with an uncanny intensity
into the Earthman's eyes. Then in a single, graceful leap of incredible
speed, it was gone into the growing red haze, as night came on and
Jupiter's macabre glow shattered the surrounding crags.

"You fool, you utter damned fool!" Jim Brannigan screamed, livid with
rage. "You did that deliberately!" Then his huge body was launching
at Hugh, the great heavy fists lashing out with the force of pistons.
Hugh, lighter but more lithe, had only time to roll to one side and
regain his feet. Then he was ducking the barrage of blows, evading the
murderous rushes, allowing Jim to tire out of his frantic rage. Only
once did Hugh strike a blow, a terrific lashing left into the other's
solar plexus that doubled the red giant into helpless nausea.

"That's all we need now," Hugh said with a measure of calm, "to maim or
cripple each other. We'll never get back that way. Come out of it, man!
What we've got to do is get that oxide!"

"What we've got to get is food! You let the only food go that we had!"
Jim Brannigan began to weep, in great racking sobs.

Merely nerves, temporary hysterical reaction, Hugh decided. Jim wasn't
really hungry yet; he was only anticipating the event. When he got
over this, he would sulk. When he got over that, he would start
scheming, with that unpredictable mind of his. Knowing the man, Hugh
decided to watch him carefully from now on.

He took Jim's arm and they walked over to the crippled spacer, lying
like a great silver bug with its nose smashed, in the stark hollow
of this ravine. They entered. Hugh walked forward and examined the
thin sheet of berryllium that patched the ship's wounded hull for the
night. He went astern and turned on the generators at quarter speed, to
provide a miserly warmth. On his way back to the inner cabin he stopped
and peered out of a porthole at a now familiar scene: Europa's dark mad
terrain becoming swiftly suffused with Jupiter's red.

He entered the cabin, glanced at Jim and saw that he was now in the
sulking stage. The hunger problem pressed insistently upon Hugh's own
mind. That little furry creature! In spite of hunger, he was still
glad he had let it escape; but damn it, he wished he knew why! Hugh
thrust the problem from him and glanced again at Jim. Soon Jim's mind,
bordering upon necessity, would begin scheming.

Hugh knew the man....

Despite an utter weariness, Hugh didn't sleep through the rest of
that short night. His mind, alert and hunger-clear, wrestled with the
problem of survival in this mad world of snow and silence. In the
opposite beryllium-mesh bunk, Jim snored fitfully, as though rehearsing
in his sleep some violence in his mind.

Hugh arose slowly, and donned with caution the stiff, heavy space-suit
as protection against the cold. Adjusting the helmet and oxygen tank,
he opened the airlock and ventured out into the Dantesque magnificence
of Europa's night. The red opaline haze had the quality of a waking
nightmare. The great snow crystals were drifting lazily again,
appearing now like livid blotches of ruby. Jupiter loomed like a great
gloating nemesis across the entire ragged horizon.

Hugh didn't know where he was going. No pre-determined plan guided his
footsteps. There was only a great urgency to leave the spacer and go
somewhere and seek.... Hugh stopped, brushed the brittle red snow from
his face-plate and wished he could wipe the sweat from his brow. Go
where, and seek what? Seek oxide crystals of course, he told himself;
but there was something else now, something strange and powerful that
gripped a part of his mind and urged him on like the fear of madness.

He stumbled on for hours it seemed, until he was in the fearsome
cavern country. Here the stark, heaven-rearing cliffs were honeycombed
with tortuous caves and gullies and immense grottoes. He entered a
low gallery-like cave that wound in and downward into the mass of a
gigantic cliff.

Now an unshakable inner dread plucked at his mind and gripped his
throat as he tried to check his precipitate descent, but couldn't. He
no longer seemed possessed of any volition of his own. He shrugged
fatalistically; then he felt a thrill of excitement, as he noticed a
faint luminescence of the surrounding walls. This light increased as he
descended deeper and deeper through widening passages. Then at last, at
the end of a turn a burst of radiance met his eyes.

He was in a grotto of titanic proportions. The substance of its walls
and distant ceiling gave it the gentle radiance of a sunless day. But
it was a glaucous radiance, ineffably green as the light beneath the
waters of a shallow sea.

"Holy, roaring comets!" Hugh swore aloud as he stood there quite still,
staring. "By all the Red-Tails on Venus, it's oxide--all of it!" His
voice echoed inside his helmet and beat against his eardrums.

Yes, it was berryllium oxide gleaming at his feet, crystalline and
powdery just as men had found it for the first time a century before
in the desert wastes of Arizona. The entire floor of the grotto was
covered with it as far as his widening eyes could see. He bent in a
frenzy of joy and scooped up whole handfuls. He half-babbled over it
like a delirious King Midas. He let it trickle fondly through his
fingers in a little glittering flood. Saved! Now they could repair the
ship and return! Return to Earth and tell of this!

Not until several minutes later did Hugh begin to wonder how he had
come here. With a rush of apprehension, he remembered a cold and
tenacious something that had seized a part of his mind. But now it was
gone and he felt strangely limp and tired.

He leaped to his feet. Staring around, he wondered if he could retrace
his steps back to the space-ship. And in that precise moment he felt
his mind seized again with a sort of frantic suddenness. There was no
mistaking that very clear warning of, "_Danger! Danger!_"

But he could not have acted in time. Even as he spun around he was
unaware of the shadow that lengthened behind him, until it loomed very
near and a part of it lashed out. Not until the last split second, did
Hugh glimpse wild and red-streaked eyes in vivid contrast to the grim
and purposeful face behind a helmet plate. Then the part of the shadow
that was Jim Brannigan's arm, holding something massive like a rock,
completed the swift arc and struck.

A sun exploded within Hugh's head. Livid flames engulfed him, consumed
him, he tried to cry out but couldn't; then the sun fragments cruelly
withdrew, leaving him helpless in a cold blackness through which he
fell like a plummet to ultimate extinction.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jim Brannigan stood there tensely for a moment, looking at the man he
had struck down. But only for a moment. His lips quirked into a tight
smile, and his exulting keen eyes took in the cave's glittering expanse.

"A fortune in oxide crystals," he murmured, "an inexhaustible mine! And
he thought he could cheat me out of it, keep it from me! Good thing I
followed him. Serves him right if I've killed him."

He didn't seem too worried about it, and he didn't look at Hugh's body
again as he started gathering in the rare crystals.

"Europa's uncharted, I can claim-deed this whole region! And probably
there's another fortune in furs," he added as he suddenly remembered
the creature he had captured. Already, in his greedy mind's eye, he
saw himself a tycoon, the oxide king, with a corner on furs finer than
anything ever seen on Earth, Venus or Mars.

This he saw. But what he didn't see were the myriad pairs of burning
beryl eyes peering at him from concealed openings in the opaline walls.
He was not aware of the increasing energy potential being generated by
a growing legion of furred bodies in surrounding caverns, as more and
more Panadurs pressed forward to peer out at him. Around Jim Brannigan
now the frigid atmosphere began to rise. At first it was pleasantly
cool, then warm, and warmer, until it became suffocating.

Still the silvery-furred Panadurs, in utter silence, generated heat
as their mental forces grew and deliberately united into a single,
increasing potential. Their fur stood erect, an angry violet-silver
now, crackling a little with the intensity of the effort. As a single
unit, they waited, each furry Panadur now touching the other in a
living, livid chain of cumulative power.

Jim Brannigan ceased his gloating and awoke at last to an indefinable
danger. Swiftly he arose and whirled toward the entrance, peering back
over his shoulder at the danger he could feel, that he knew was there,
but could not see.

But already it was too late. Now that increasing energy potential,
grown and united into a single purposeful weapon, was being aimed. Jim
Brannigan hadn't taken three steps toward the entrance when suddenly,
silently, intangible as thought, but infinitely more devastating, it
was released! As the devastating bolt struck him, Brannigan collapsed
into a crumpled heap, shattered, silent ... inert.

       *       *       *       *       *

For hours that lengthened into days, Hugh Betancourt lay unconscious.
His blanched features were lifeless and cold, there in the same cavern
where Brannigan's treacherous blow had toppled him into oblivion.

Then, as a hint of color returned to his cheeks, and a slow strength
began to course through his limbs, he regained moments of lucidness;
but they were brief and he always lapsed back into delirium.

With the wavering unreality of a mirage, vague memories of those
strange furred creatures, encircling him, surged into his mind; they
seemed to have pressed close to him, holding hands. Strange! They
were joined by a line of their fellow Panadurs to a similar circle
surrounding a huddled figure a short distance away. But that was crazy!
And Hugh's mind would slide back into the darkness again.

Once, he thought one of the Panadurs came and placed its exquisite
face against his chest, and held it there a long time, as if it were
testing the Earthman's metabolism. This seemed so very real! Hugh was
aware of an almost crackling silence and the cave ceiling's unchanging
luminescence.

Still a third time, he imagined that a silver-gray Panadur, almost
stately in his measured movements, came over to him with a gleaming
jewel in his hand. It was an inch in diameter and the same color as
the creature's eyes, a pale luscent green. Majestically, despite his
diminutive size, he placed the stone over Hugh's heart. Instantly the
gem flamed with the effulgence of a glowing star. The Panadur seemed
satisfied.

When at last Hugh Betancourt regained full consciousness, and was able
to sit up and stare around him, he realized that he had not been a prey
to delusions. Although he still felt weak, his mind was crystal clear.
Here was the circle of Panadurs still enclosing him. _But the circle
had grown_, as if a great many more creatures had joined the uncanny
circle in an ecstasy to be in close proximity to the tall earthman.
Their furry, vibrating bodies pressed close to him, and their strange,
fragile hands touched his wrists and throat and face, as they seemed to
caress him with infinite gentleness.

Waves of sheer energy seemed to envelop him and penetrate to the
deepest recesses of his being, as if by some strange alchemy, these
alien creatures of stark Europa were transmitting to him the elemental
life force itself.

But strangely enough, that other circle of Panadurs enclosing that
huddled figure over there, in the semi-gloom, was contracting as it
grew smaller and smaller, day by day. Hugh ceased to wonder about all
this as he lay back to gather his strength. He fell into a peaceful
sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

This time when he awoke, it was a profound sense of well-being far
beyond anything he'd ever known. It permeated his body with the
exhilarating glow of a rare Venusian wine.

One thing, however, still eluded him. He sat up and felt his head
where the blow had fallen. He remembered only the excruciating pain in
the microscopic instant before the rushing darkness came. There was
nothing there now. Not even a scar.

"A rock from the ceiling must have fallen," he thought. "My luck to be
standing right under it."

"_It was not a rock!_"

The thought came into his mind clear and unmistakable. Then Hugh found
himself staring into the beryl-green eyes of the stately keeper of the
jewel. Like a flash, the scene he had not witnessed, of Jim Brannigan
stalking him from the space-ship, the murderous blow and the vision of
himself lying in a pool of blood on the glittering expanse of oxide
crystals, was etched into his mind by the telepathic power of the
Panadur.

"We know you would have spared us," came the uncanny stream of thought.
"Your companion captured me when I, as the chosen leader, went to
investigate your arrival. But you deliberately let me go when it meant
your own life. But he, whose fur was like the angry spot of the greater
world, would have destroyed us. We read his thoughts."

"Telepathy, by Mercury's molten heart!" Hugh exclaimed in awe, dimly
sensing the prodigious mental power of the being. "And we were going
to eat one of them!" He stared around the cave, remembering Jim
Brannigan, and it was apparent that Hugh still didn't realize all that
had occurred. "I suppose that murdering, mercenary scum's left long ago
with the ship, and here I'm stranded! If I ever get my hands on him----"

"That you will never do."

Hugh was aware of the Panadur again, and he saw the shadowy copy of a
smile flit over its features.

"We gave you of our energy," the shimmering silver being transmitted.
"And we gave you of another life that you might have yours again. It
was but justice!"

"What? What other life?" And then Hugh tottered where he stood, swayed
sickeningly, as the entire meaning burst upon him. He remembered the
scenes in his delirium, when two circles, one of which enclosed him and
another that enclosed a huddled figure, had been formed by Panadurs,
while a living chain of the brooding creatures joined the two circles
together. He shuddered as he remembered that his own circle seemed to
expand as the other inexorably _contracted_!

"There was no choice!" The limpid thought-message from the Panadur
impinged upon Hugh's mind. "We know the secret of the release of
electronic energy by the disassociation of electronic and neutronic
balance in the atomic scale. We reverse the vibration of matter and
through magnetic means draw a steady stream of energy--pure energy
from matter in whatever state. In your case, we simply transmitted the
energy content of the red-furred one to you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Hugh hardly dared to glance in the direction where the huddled figure
had been, but with an effort of will he steeled himself against the
growing nausea and resolutely walked over to the thing.

He felt his sanity reeling.

He was brought back to sanity by the Panadur, who, all along, had
communicated with him. Its fragile, six-fingered hand was extended,
palm-upwards and lying on it was a gleaming jewel.

"Take it and go!" The message came with majestic power, yet there was
a world of kindness in it. "Go back to your ship. You will find its
damage repaired. We have done that for you. With the star of Panadur
you will be guided back as my thought centers upon it. On the day when
you return to our world, gaze upon the star and you will be helped to
find again and gather the crystals you seek. _But none from your planet
must ever see us again, or even hear of us!_"

"I promise!" Hugh exclaimed fervently, remembering Jim Brannigan's
intent and that there were many men like Brannigan.

Slowly Hugh left the cave, clutching the dazzling gem through which
he could feel a directed flow of thought. He was still a little dazed
at this miracle. He wanted to laugh and to cry. But the flooding
realization that his ship, repaired and ready, awaited him; that he was
free to leave this craggy hell of crimson shadows and arctic nights,
left only a vast, singing quiet in his soul, too deep for tears.





End of Project Gutenberg's Star of Panadur, by Albert dePina and Henry Hasse

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR OF PANADUR ***

***** This file should be named 62253.txt or 62253.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/2/5/62253/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
