The Project Gutenberg EBook of Cosmic Castaway, by Carl Jacobi

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Cosmic Castaway

Author: Carl Jacobi

Release Date: June 5, 2020 [EBook #62319]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COSMIC CASTAWAY ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            Cosmic Castaway

                            By CARL JACOBI

              Within a year Earth would be a vassal world,
               with the Sirian invaders triumphant. Only
               Standish, Earth's Defense Engineer, could
               halt that last victorious onslaught--and
                he was helpless, the lone survivor of a
                prison ship wrecked in uncharted space.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories March 1943.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Standish came back to consciousness, a dull pain surging in his head
and a feeling of nausea in his midsection. The room about him was
strange: grey _arelium_ walls, a single light burning above the iron
cot, and a low vibration that trembled the floor beneath his feet.

For a time he lay there, fighting off a cloud of dizziness. Then he
groped unsteadily to his feet. As he did, the vibration ceased, and
far off he fancied he heard voices pitched in alarm. A bell clanged
hollowly several times.

He recognized those sounds now, as his thoughts struggled to bridge the
gap in his brain and the memory of past events came rushing to him.

He was on a Sirian prison ship!

The silence grew upon him, and he stood there uncertainly, listening.
Something was wrong. There was no familiar drone of atomic motors, and
there should be....

When the shock came, he was hurled completely across the room to the
far bulkhead. Yet it wasn't a severe shock. It was as if the ship
faltered suddenly and heeled over on her side.

Above him, Standish saw induction and exhaust pipes, coated with
sulphur dioxide frost, writhe and twist like so many serpents. The
explosion that followed was deafening. The floor buckled upward under
the pressure. The door to the cabin was torn from its hinges, and a
sheet of flame and a column of smoke gushed inward.

In an instant, Standish understood. The prison ship, well on its voyage
from Earth, had entered the danger zone, that part of space swarming
with planetoids and miniature planets. A sleepy pilot had failed to
make the proper gravitational allowances. They had struck!

The ship was almost over on her beam ends now. It righted slowly, and
Standish fought his way into the outer passageway, every muscle tensed
for instant action.

The corridor was empty. Gas and smoke searing his nostrils, the
Earthman made his way to the companion. Up he climbed. Emerging on the
second level, he stood rigid, stark horror gripping him.

The cages were there. Tier after tier of them stretching into the
bowels of the space ship as far as the grey light permitted him to see.
In those cages, he knew, were men of his own race: Earth soldiers,
prisoners of war.

But over each cage the heavy ceiling plates had been ripped free by the
force of the explosion, and where the imprisoned men had been, only
twisted bars and sheets of _arelium_ steel were visible. The entire
level was a tomb of silence.

Standish choked back a sob. His men all dead! Crushed like rats in a
trap.

He crossed to the ladder leading to the third and main level, climbing
slowly.

Reaching the crew deck, he rocked backward again with a cry of dismay.
Here, too, the fearful destruction was evident on all sides. Uniformed
Sirians lay dead in the scuppers. The entire bridge house was a mass of
fallen girders and broken metal.

The officers' quarters had been crushed like an eggshell. Only the
steering cuddy and control room had been spared. But here, too,
Standish found death had not spared the occupants. A pintax bar,
ripped free from its rocker arms, had jammed itself like an exploded
cartridge into the pilot's skull. All in the control room had died of
fumes forced into the chamber when the motors backcharged through the
instrument pipes.

       *       *       *       *       *

From cabin to cabin Standish went from the living quarters of the crew
in the forecastle, to the ammunition chamber in the stern. Everywhere
he found destruction and death.

And slowly the fact dawned upon him that he alone aboard was alive.
He had been spared because he had been imprisoned in the lower hull,
and that section of the ship had escaped damage. Slowly he sank onto a
settee and tried to reconstruct his thoughts.

A few hours ago as defense engineer for Earth, he had generaled
a daring undercover attack against the Sirian's main base at San
Francisco. For ten years--since 3010--the war between Earth and
Sirius had been going on, with Earth the stage for all battles of
the conflict. The cause of the war was long forgotten. Earth people
only knew that the Sirians, greedy for more land, had successfully
vanquished Mars and Venus and were steadily closing in on terrestrial
territory.

Already Australia and Asia had fallen. With every known device of
interplanetary warfare, the Sirians had captured district after
district, until the American continent alone remained untrampled by the
invaders.

But Standish's story had begun a week before. Through an operative
in his vast espionage system, he had learned that the Sirians under
command of the ruthless Drum Faggard, were preparing for the "big push."

With a dozen chosen companions disguised as Sirians, the Earth engineer
had successfully passed through the enemy lines. He had hoped to
capture Drum Faggard and a number of his officers-of-staff and race
with them back to the Earth's front line breastworks at Omaha. It was a
wild scheme; but Standish knew if Faggard were captured, the war would
collapse.

The plan had failed. Counter-spies had warned the Sirians. The little
band of twelve had been permitted to penetrate deep into Sirian
territory, then had been overwhelmed. And after that--Standish's fists
clenched--he had been brought face to face with Drum Faggard.

He was a renegade, this Sirian master of conquest. He had been born on
Earth of low parentage, but at the beginning of hostilities he had
wormed his way into the graces of the Sirians and by cunning and force
of will had risen to Chief of Command.

The Sirians were a wafter-headed race with featureless faces and
short barrel-like bodies. Their legs were the same as those of the
men of Earth, but their arms possessed tumor-like swellings above the
wrists, secondary nerve centers. Faggard, a huge man with a gross face,
pig-like eyes and thin lips, had smiled sardonically when Standish was
brought before him.

"So your little plan failed, eh?" he said, swallowing a glass of
Sirian whiskey and wiping his mouth with the flat of his hand. "Well,
Standish, you may as well realize it, you're quite in our power now,
and you'll be treated with no more consideration than the rest of the
prisoners, unless you answer a few questions."

"What sort of questions?" Standish had demanded.

Faggard smiled again. "Now that your connections with Earth have been
forever severed, it can be of little concern to you what happens to
that planet. What I want to know is this: How many anti-rocket guns has
Earth located at its Omaha base? What is the number of strato-cruisers
stationed at Powerville? How heavy are the reserves in the Electra City
sector?

"Answer those question, Standish, and you will be virtually a free man.
You will be released on our colony planet of Pluto, with five hundred
_planetoles_ in your pocket. That money will enable you to live a life
of ease for the rest of your days."

For a moment Standish had stood there, face emotionless. Then like an
uncapped bottle spewing forth, he had given in to blind rage. He lunged
across the room, seized Faggard's thick throat and pounded his right
fist into the smirking lips. Twice he had struck before a guard had
rushed forward and pulled him off. Then something hard and heavy had
crashed down upon his skull, and he knew no more.

He had awakened on this prison ship. But had not this accident occurred
he knew well enough the fate that would have been in store for him. All
prisoners captured by the Sirian army were transported back to Sirius
where they were put to work as slaves in the marsh fields, extracting
hydro-carbon gas for use in the food-distillation plants. It was said a
terrestrial man could live only one year there.

Only one thing puzzled the Earthman. Why had he been given special
quarters on the prison ship instead of being placed in one of the cages
with the other prisoners? To that he could give no answer, and as the
ringing silence of space closed in on him, he got to his feet and made
his way slowly back to the control room.


                                  II

Glass 5 showed that the forepeak and secondary chamber had been ripped
open. Glass 5 also showed that bulkhead doors there had automatically
closed. For the rest, excluding the motors, everything seemed in order.

The oxygen suppliers were functioning smoothly on auxiliary batteries.
Likewise the heat units, one for each level, showed normal operation.
All lights were lit.

Standish glanced out the port. Whatever the ship had struck, it was out
of his vision range now. Propelled by the forward surge of the dying
motors, the ship must have advanced a great distance since the fatal
crash.

Now the ship was drifting. Drifting without steerageway.

"Derelict," Standish said slowly. "It looks like I've got a one-way
ticket to eternity."

He took the elevator down to the lower level again and made his way
along the grating to the engine room. Carefully he examined the six
ato-turbines with an experienced eye.

Standish had grown up with atomic motors. He had served an
apprenticeship at his father's solar plant at Sun City, and he had
graduated from the New York School of Technology. As a boy of sixteen,
he had built his first minature atom smasher during vacation days.

Now he moved along the narrow catwalk between the motors, touching a
wire here, an armature there. The two port engines, he found, were
wrecked completely. Likewise the two starboard. Two forward machines
remained, and of these he saw one had an inch-wide crack in its
combustion chamber. But the other....

Standish drew in a breath of satisfaction. The last motor was disabled
but not beyond repair. Without further ado, he peeled off his coat,
seized a Stillson wrench and fell to work.

It took him a long time, and the task drew his mind away from the
horror about him. With the patience of long experience, Standish made
his repairs. At length it was completed, and he paused with bated
breath while he pressed the starting button.

The motor began, sluggishly at first, then faster and faster. Presently
it was droning evenly as if nothing had almost wrecked it earlier.

"One motor isn't much," he told himself. "But it may be enough."

For the third time he returned to the control room. There, triumph
met his gaze. The master indicator showed a definite forward movement
through space. The crippled ship was moving, though slowly.

Standish turned his attention next to the visiscreens and emergency
radio with which the liner had kept in contact with Earth and Sirius.
Neither the transmitting nor the receiving sets showed any response
when he turned on the control switch. A glance back of the panels
showed shattered tubes and broken apparatus.

He went out on the deck and climbed to the pilot cuddy. One look
through the three-directional glassite shield told a grim story. But it
was a full minute before the significance of it all probed into him.

The view ahead was utterly unfamiliar. Strange stars and constellations
glowed in the void. Far off to his left was the white radiance of
a spiral nebula. To the right, the galaxies seemed to blend in a
bewildering array of light and matter, stretching on into infinitude.

Standish's knowledge of cosmography was limited. He knew that straight
lines connecting Sirius with Procyon and Betelguese would constitute a
nearly equilateral triangle. He knew, too, that Betelguese, Sirius and
Regel--all of the first magnitude--formed a lozenge-shaped figure, with
Orion's belt in the center.

But try as he would, he could locate none of these stellar landmarks.

       *       *       *       *       *

Turning, he looked for the liner's log. With information as to the
ship's time of departure from Earth and an average calculation of her
speed, he might hope to chart his position.

The log, however, had not been filled out. The Sirians apparently had
grown careless in their repeated trips through space.

Standish's teeth came down hard on his pipe stem. He was lost!
Hopelessly lost! A solitary spark of life in a man-made projectile,
wandering the immensities of the Universe.

Mechanically, the Earthman set the automatic directionscope for a
larger spot of light far ahead and threw in the massmeter which would
effectually warn him of any body within collision range in his path.
Had the liner pilot paid attention to that dial, he reflected, the
crash might have been avoided.

Stars paraded, swung past. The Big Dipper flamed away, curiously
changed in outlines. Or was it the Big Dipper? Standish didn't know.

Material thoughts supplanted cosmic ones then. There was work to be
done, ghoulish work which common decency demanded he perform. The dead
must be disposed of.

It was a hard task, and he accomplished it by carrying the bodies of
the Sirian officers and crew to the baggage chamber in the stern and
casting them free through the airlock. On the second level which had
held the Earth prisoners the work was even more difficult. Heavy bars
and plates had to be lifted free. But at length Standish stood alone on
the ship.

He recognized the gnawing sensation in his midsection then as hunger.
Finding the galley supplied with both fresh meats and vegetables as
well as food concentrates, he ate well. The food served to restore some
of his confidence.

When he returned to the pilot cuddy, he saw that the bright spot for
which he had set the directionscope had enlarged to a great orange
globe that covered the entire glassite shield. Even as he watched, the
outlines of land and seas took form.

The needle of the massmeter began to quiver spasmodically, but
Standish held to his course. It had occurred to him that this world
might possibly be inhabited and that he might obtain aid for his return
to Earth, or at least the proper directions.

But as he drew closer, the land resolved itself into thick jungle and
smooth eroded mountain tops, barren of any building or structure. The
planet, on this hemisphere at least, was devoid of life.

A bell clanged above the massmeter, warning him the ship was in the
danger zone. He seized the wheel and turned it hard over. At the same
time he moved the power switch to the last notch.

The liner swung sluggishly. And then the thing Standish had feared
happened! The single motor buckled under the strain and ceased. Without
resistance, the ship swept full into the gravitational field of the
planet and plunged downward.

Like a man in a dream Standish saw jungle rush up to meet him. An
instant later there was a terrific crash, and he felt himself hurled
into oblivion.


                                  III

An eternity seemed to have passed before he opened his eyes. He was
conscious immediately of his left arm which was pinioned under a heavy
rock. He wrenched it free and staggered erect, looking about dazedly.

His eyes opened in bewilderment. He lay on a shelf, a small escarpment
projecting from the side of a cliff. Far below him, smashed and broken
in two, amid jagged boulders, lay the prison ship. And sweeping on and
on to the horizon was a dense matted jungle.

The trees resembled giant cat-tails. Without branches, the trunks
towered up a full three hundred feet to form a huge green protruberance
at the top. The rock of the cliff was neither igneous nor sedimentary.
Instead it was smooth and almost translucent, like glass.

In the sky above, two suns blazed, one at the zenith, one a fiery ball
dipping over the horizon. The air was warm and humid, and Standish knew
the oxygen content must be almost the same as on Earth.

Nature-formed rock slabs led in stair formation down the cliff. While
he stood there, slowly regaining his strength, the Earthman tried to
trace the path of the crashing liner. He saw where it had struck,
ripping open the entire side and casting him out. Then it had rolled
end over end down into the ravine.

At length, Standish began his descent. The moment he swung his
body over the edge to hang by his hands, he gave an exclamation of
amazement. His body seemed to weigh nothing at all. This planet must
be of smaller size than Earth, and, therefore, the gravitational
attraction was less.

On the ravine floor he looked about him warily. Titanic rock, smooth
and polished from erosion, littered the expanse but stopped at the
jungle edge. The trees were all the same, of equal height and girth.
They seemed to be arranged in corridors or galleries, the way between
them dark and shadow-filled. Standish knew he must exercise caution
until he could explore those depths.

The significance of his plight now swept upon him. He was alone on an
alien planet. Even granting the Sirians would send out scouts to locate
their prison ship when it failed to arrive, the chances of his being
found were remote.

Yet on the other hand, he alone had been spared death. And he had come
upon a world, one perhaps in millions, which had an atmosphere capable
of supporting human life.

A sudden high-pitched drone broke the silence. Rising up from behind a
pile of boulders a hideous winged shape shot toward him!

Half bird, half saurian, the thing's head was enormous with an inflated
cobra hood. Even as the creature closed in with incredible speed,
Standish wheeled and ran for the safety of the wrecked space ship.

He reached it and wormed his way through a gaping rent in the hull.
The lizard-bird stopped short a few yards from the ship to stare
perplexedly. Then with its queer droning cry still sounding, it zoomed
into the air and flew out of sight.

"_Holy Hell!_"

Standish inhaled deeply. Dangers here were imminent. He must take
steps to protect himself at once.

Although the liner lay on one side with the three entrances and
emergency airlock underneath, the hole through which he had entered
was the only opening. The hull bottom had been crushed by the great
impact. Yet the glassite ports and vision shield of the pilot cuddy
were unbroken.

Standish crawled back along the passage to the officers' quarters.
On the well of one of the cabins he found two genithode pistols and
a portable ray gun. He realized then that his first move toward self
preservation lay in making the space ship livable and impregnable to
outside attack.

He accomplished the latter by removing two bulkhead doors and jamming
them across the opening in the hull. The last door he arranged on a
swivel so that it could be locked from either side. Then, exhausted by
the hours of activity, he fell asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he awoke and went outside, he saw that the two suns had exactly
altered their position. The larger was at the zenith now; the smaller,
low on the horizon. The temperature was unchanged, and the air was
crystal clear, with only a few fleecy clouds floating overhead.

Standish ate a hearty breakfast, then strapped one genithode pistol
about his waist and headed across the ravine to begin his first trip of
exploration.

The moment he entered the jungle he was conscious of an electric
something that passed before him, telegraphed from tree to tree.
The strange plants, neither cyads nor conifers, seemed aware of his
presence, whispering among themselves.

Experimentally he touched one of the trunks. It quivered, the bark
split apart, and a spongy tentacle whipped out to drive straight at his
throat. Standish escaped the clawing coil by inches. The tree quivered
again, and the tentacle returned to its hiding place.

He kept well away from the trees after that. But as he went on, he saw
other forms of life, all manifesting an evolution in mixed stages of
development. There was a low plant, brilliant purple in color which
gave off a mewling cry whenever he stepped on one of its fronds. There
were small lizard-birds, and occasionally he saw bluish masses growing
melon-like on the ground. These had a single eye in the center of a
spongy body. They watched him as he passed.

Once a small animal darted out before him. But when he approached, the
creature instead of running for safety, thrust one paw in the soft
earth, and a whitish blossom leaped up on a wavering stalk from its
head. Within the flick of an eye, the thing had changed from animal to
plant life.

It was at high noon by his Earth-time watch that Standish emerged into
the glade. He stopped short, staring, then uttered a short cry.

Before him were buildings, low mushroom-like buildings arranged in a
semi-circle. Fashioned of the same translucent rock he had seen on the
cliff, they resembled the igloos of his own north country. Overhead
a network of thick yellowish wire ran back and forth, separated at
intervals by heavy white insulators.

He saw then that the structures were old. The wires hung slack, and in
many places were broken in two. A heavy silk-like grass had sprung up
in thick clumps between the buildings.

With steps suddenly grown heavy, Standish advanced to the nearest
house. The rotting remnants of a wooden door hung from elliptical
hinges.

Inside was desertion. There were no furnishings of any kind. Over
everything lay a heavy coating of dust.

There were twelve buildings in the glade, and he examined them one
by one. In one he found a skeleton with a skull of enormous size and
three leg appendages instead of two. In the last a strange looking
machine, partially dismantled, was mounted on the wall. Every detail of
it, from the mildewed control panel to the eccentric wheels and cogs
were unfamiliar to him. On the floor was a stone tablet covered with
hieroglyphics.

But that was all!

Depression swept over Standish as he mentally supplied the missing
details. Some race had been here long ago; a foreign race, for the
glade was undoubtedly a temporary camp. The wire entanglement and the
machine had been constructed as some sort of protection against the
animal life of this planet.

But whoever these people were, they had come and gone!


                                  IV

Standish left the glade with a heavy heart and returned to the space
ship. In the ravine, he made two discoveries. There was a spring of
clear water pouring from a fissure in the cliff side. Growing about it
was an edible variety of moss. Although he had concentrated food in the
liner's galley to keep him for a long time, these finds were reassuring.

He also found that the combination of the mineral soil and the two suns
affected growth tremendously. Planting a few dried kernels of corn,
he was amazed to see them take root almost instantly and reach full
maturity within a few hours.

He now set upon a task which he had been mulling over in his brain for
some time.

There were ray cannons mounted on the space liner's stern. Two of
these had broken muzzles, but the third was intact. Standish went down
into the bowels of the ship and found a dozen old message projectiles.
Cigar-shaped objects of heat-resisting corodite, these projectiles were
a part of all space crafts' emergency equipment. They were used for
distress signals when radio or visiscreen equipment failed.

In the hollow chamber of each of the twelve projectiles he placed the
same message:


    Castaway. Mason Standish. Lieutenant-defense-engineer Earth.
    On unknown planet, somewhere near Sirius-Earth Route.
    December 28, 3020.

He had no means of astronomical calculation. So he aimed the gun at
twelve different points of the heavens and fired haphazardly. Chances
of intelligent life ever finding those projectiles were millions to one
against him. But whatever the odds, he must miss no opportunity.

Next he made a thorough survey of the wrecked liner, carrying all
usable objects to the forecastle, which swiftly took on the appearance
of a storage room. As these articles began to grow in number,
satisfaction and pride of ownership gripped him.

It was in the midst of these labors that he was suddenly struck with
an idea. Why not construct a space ship from the wrecked parts of the
liner? He had six atomic motors, and surely from their wreckage he
could salvage enough to build one of half the trajectory power. And
with a smaller ship, he might be able to find his way back to Earth.

Standish smoked a pipe over this. When morning came, he began the
herculean task of dismantling the motors. Day after day he struggled
with the cumbersome machinery. When this stage of the work was finally
completed, he was startled to discover that six weeks of Earth time had
slipped by.

He then found in the machinists' quarters an electrolic saw. The tool
was dull, but he managed to cut free a dozen girders for the framework
of his craft. To his dismay he found them too heavy to move even
with block and tackle. There was no alternative but to cut them into
sections and weld them together, hoping they would stand the strain.

That night the first warning of trouble came. Absently Standish had
noticed a chill in the air, a more oblique slant to the twin suns.
Suddenly from the jungle beyond the ravine came a low rumbling.

The Earthman switched on a searchlight he had fastened on top of the
forecastle. The white glare fastened itself on the wall of trees,
revealed five figures advancing directly into the light.

       *       *       *       *       *

On all fours they came, huge beasts with long tapered bodies covered
with heavy white fur. Their heads resembled the saber-toothed tigers of
Earth's Upper Miocene.

A dozen appeared before Standish understood. This zone of the planet
was advancing into its cold season. The animals were part of a
migrating herd, coming down from the warmer districts.

He drew his genithode pistol and fired into their midst. The foremost
of the creatures keeled over, and the Earthman advanced boldly, firing
as he went. Here was fresh meat, and with winter coming on, he intended
to obtain as much of it as possible.

Standish was twenty yards from the hull of the liner when a coughing
roar sounded behind him. He wheeled and uttered a cry of horror. If
the creatures revealed by the light were giants in size, these others
were titans. Nostrils picking up his scent, they came forward slowly,
cutting him off from the ship.

He fired twice again, even as two of the monsters hurtled toward him.
It was stark struggle then. With only the reflected light of the search
lamp and the vague glow of the stars, Standish fought desperately. The
pistol barrel became hot; the white-haired things went down in two's
and three's.

And then abruptly there came a lull in the attack. The creatures halted
listening. And an instant later the sound reached the Earthman's ears
like the hum of an angry hornet. From above it came, rapidly drawing
nearer. Stunned, he saw the saber-toothed monsters turn and slink
quietly back into the jungle.

Up in the sky a light gleamed, and a series of red flashes split
the darkness. Then a black ball-shaped shadow swept downward with
incredible speed. There was a roar and a series of muffled reports as
the thing hurtled over the roof of the jungle and swept to a landing at
the far end of the ravine.

The sounds ceased. Standish stood there, frozen to inactivity. Then a
hysterical shout and a peal of laughter burst from his lips. A space
ship ... a rocket ship, landing here on this planet. It ... it wasn't
possible!


                                   V

But it was possible. As Standish ran forward, he saw a hatch open in
the metal sphere and a man climb out. And yet it wasn't a man. The face
and body were normal, but the arms and legs were vine-like appendages
with segmented fronds for hands. When this person saw Standish, it
recoiled and whipped a knife out from a scabbard at its waist.

Quickly the Earthman raised one arm above his head in the common symbol
of friendliness. A smile of recognition crossed the little man's face.
He nodded and raised his frond-like hand in a similar gesture. Then he
pointed to himself and said:

"Ga-Marr!"

The rocket ship now came under Standish's gaze. He saw that it was of
a design foreign to any craft he had ever seen before. Spherical in
shape, with a series of strange-looking fins along the sides, its stern
rudders were formed of crude exhaust jettisons, and the several ports
were formed of a transparent material that resembled quartz.

Ga-Marr--for it was evident those syllables formed the stranger's
name--opened the hatch door and motioned Standish to enter. Without
hesitation, the Earthman did so. Inside was a single cabin, with a
control panel occupying two of the four walls. Ga-Marr pressed a
button, and a panel slid open in the floor, revealing the motor chamber.

The stranger pointed downward, then shook his head violently. Standish
nodded.

"Motors went dead on you, eh? Well, my friend, it looks as though you
and I were in the same fix. Come along, and I'll show you my diggings."

But when Ga-Marr looked upon the wrecked space liner, he stared
incredulously. He walked its entire length as if doubting its
proportions.

"Yes, she's big all right," Standish smiled, aware that he was not
understood. "But she's no good, the way she is now. Now, how about a
little food?"

In his forecastle home, the Earthman set out a bottle of wine and some
cakes. He noted that Ga-Marr used his front hands with great dexterity,
but that he betrayed no surprise at Standish's own physical appearance.

Once the stranger had eaten, Standish began the necessary task of
providing a common means of communication. He used the Corelli
sound-system--a shortcut method of acquainting the ear and the eye
simultaneously with objects of fundamental importance. Within two
hours, he found he could converse with Ga-Marr with a minimum amount of
difficulty.

Haltingly then, the stranger began to speak:

"I am from the city, Calthedra, of the planet Lyra, of the system
Aritorius. My race was once a great people, but raiders from another
planet destroyed our civilization. All we have left is a few rocket
ships of the kind in which I came. These were built long ago by our
ancestors, and only a few of us know how to operate them."

Standish nodded. "How came you here?"

"I was voyaging to visit my brother on our satellite, Zora, when those
same raiders caught sight of me and gave chase. My space compass
broke, and I became lost. I found my way here just as my rocket motors
consumed the last of their power."

"I see." Standish lit his pipe and began to smoke slowly. "And these
raiders--they come from near here?"

"From Sirius," Ga-Marr replied. "They raid us for funds to continue
their war with a planet many light years away."

For a full moment Standish sat there rigid. Then the pipe fell from his
hands, and he leaped to his feet.

"Sirius!" he cried. "So those butchers are not content to place in
bondage all the solar system. They must plague other worlds also!"

He paced the length of the forecastle.

"Tell me," he said, whirling abruptly, "do you know of a Sirian leader
called Drum Faggard?"

Ga-Marr's eyes gleamed. "Aye. The crudest and most bloodthirsty of
them all. It was he who led the attack against my people in which my
brother was killed. It was he who directed the sacking of our city of
Calthedra. My one hope is that some day we may meet on common ground."

       *       *       *       *       *

The next day Standish revealed to the newcomer his plan to build a
smaller space ship out of the wreckage of the old.

"Your own craft is useless without power for its rocket motors," he
told Ga-Marr. "Yet it contains parts that will be valuable. Have I your
consent to dismantle it?"

The stranger nodded.

"To work then. And remember, if we succeed, we may yet be able to
strike at Drum Faggard."

It was the desire for revenge that spurred them on. Quickly they set
about dismantling Ga-Marr's ship. Rivets were cut, bolts unscrewed,
plates ripped off. Using the dismantled parts of the space liner's
atomic motors, Standish fashioned a smaller but powerful engine.
Gradually out of the mass a crude craft began to take form.

But they were working on counted time. Days were growing shorter; the
nights, longer. Icy winds began to sweep across the ravine, bringing
sleet and flurries of snow.

With the change in seasons came new dangers. Strange animal life,
following the perverse migrational instinct of the planet, swept out of
the jungle.

First came the lizard-birds, similar to, but larger than, the one which
had attacked Standish. They came over the cliff in squadron formation,
a dense cloud that blotted out the sky.

For two days the men were kept prisoners, while the flock stalked back
and forth about the ravine like a vast Roman encampment.

A week later the thrads came. It was Ga-Marr who called them thrads.
They were a tiny species of anthropoid, no larger than a squirrel, with
bright red bodies. Inquisitive and bold, they hampered the two men as
they gathered close to watch the work.

The ship was nearing completion. While Standish labored at the control
adjustments, Ga-Marr carried in a supply of food concentrates from
the wrecked liner. Along the length of the ravine an inclined runway
was built for a take-off. At the end of this, Standish constructed a
rifle-like catapult, using the parts of Ga-Marr's rocket motor and a
quantity of trinitrate cellulose he found in the liner. If the device
worked, it would multiply their initial trajectory power and quicken
their passage through the planet's gravitational field.

At length Standish fastened the last bolt of the crude new ship in its
place. Nervously, he pressed the starting button. The single motor
began with a smooth powerful hum. The ship strained at its moorings.

"Ready, Ga-Marr? We'll give her a trial flight and see how she handles."

The little man grinned, shouted. "Cast off!" he cried. "Cast off!"

Standish severed the mooring cable of the ship with one shot from his
genithode pistol. The two men yanked shut the hatch, screwed down the
air lock. With a yank, the Earthman threw over the control lever.

Up from the ground the ship shot. Through the floor panel, Standish saw
the ground receding.

"Take the controls," he told Ga-Marr. "I'm going to try and chart a
course for your planet."

       *       *       *       *       *

The planet rose up before them like a great ripened peach. It had taken
Standish long hours to calculate with his elementary astrophysics the
location of their destination. Ga-Marr had supplied what information he
could; but he knew only that the planet, Lyra, was bordered by a spiral
nebulae on one side, and that it revolved about a sun some hundred
million miles distant.

As they approached now, Ga-Marr betrayed no emotion. "The city of
Calthedra is on the other hemisphere," he said. "I'll direct you to the
landing."

They crept slowly along the surface, and the Earthman found himself
looking upon a land similar in many respects to his own. Nostalgia
seized him. Here were lakes and woods and broad fields in the state of
cultivation. Here were lanes, roads and hedges, a tracery of browns and
greens that was good to see.

But when a moment later Ga-Marr pointed out the port and said,
"Calthedra," Standish's jaw set hard. The city had been devastated.
Buildings stood in ruins. Towers were crumbling masses of masonry.
Only one structure seemed to have escaped the fearful onslaught, a
globe-shaped building, fashioned of some kind of black metal.

The Earthman saw the landing place and guided the ship downward. Below
he could see people milling about excitedly, groups of them pointing
upward.

The moment the ship came to a rest, Ga-Marr threw open the hatch
and climbed out. Standish followed, to find an assemblage drawn up
suspiciously in battle array, their weapons ready for any hostile move
of the newcomers.

In the foreground stood a taller man of Lyra, wearing a suit of
copper-colored chain mail and a helmet studded with gleaming chips of
yellow metal. At his sides were two men in white flowing robes. All had
high brows, penetrating eyes and frond-like appendages in lieu of arms
and legs.

Ga-Marr ran forward and embraced the man in the helmet.

"My father," he said, "this man is Mason Standish, a great warrior from
the planet Earth. He has rescued me from certain death, and has brought
me back to your empire at the risk of his life."

The Emperor paced forward, a benevolent smile playing across his lips.

"He who befriends my son has my gratitude," he said softly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Standish was bewildered. Ga-Marr had made no mention of the fact that
he was of royal birth. It was a long time before the Earthman found his
tongue.

"Your son tells me that your people and my people are at war with a
common enemy. May I ask how long since the Sirians made their last
attack upon you?"

"Within the risings of twelve suns," the Emperor replied. "But come.
Let us go to the palace where we may speak alone."

       *       *       *       *       *

Standish missed no detail of his passage through the city. Calthedra,
besides being hard hit by the invaders, was quite evidentally in the
process of decay. Streets were racked and unrepaired. House windows
were broken and open to the elements. And on all sides the Earthman saw
faces devoid of intelligence staring at him.

But when he climbed the steps and followed Ga-Marr and the Emperor into
the black metal globe, he entered a different world.

A vast pillared hall stretched before him. On one side a balustrated
ramp led to the upper levels. Opposite were a series of high triangular
doorways, each opening into separate chambers. The air was cool and
exhilarating and seemed to have a different chemical content than that
of the street.

"This is our palace," Ga-Marr said, "built thousands of years before
when our people were a great civilization. It alone has withstood all
the attacks our planet has been exposed to."

"Why?" demanded Standish. "I should think this would be the enemy's
first striking place."

Ga-Marr stook his head. "I do not understand the science of it myself.
It is something in the black metal. It is an electon-stripped element,
I believe, tremendously heavy and impregnable to any weapon of cosmic
warfare."

They reached the last doorway and entered the royal quarters. The
Emperor and his son sat down before a circular table and motioned
Standish to a chair opposite. The older man removed his helmet and
closed his eyes as if in weariness.

"Earthman," he said at length, "you come at a time when my planet is
sorely in need of help. I don't know how much my son has told you, but
if you will listen I will tell you the history of Lyra. But first I
have something to show you."

He touched a button on the table, and a chime sounded melodiously in
the outer corridor. A servant appeared in the doorway.

"Tell Thalia I would see her at once," the Emperor said.

A moment later light steps sounded and Standish looked up curiously.
What he saw brought him out of his chair with a cry of pleasure and
amazement.

The figure of a girl--an Earth girl of his own race stood there on the
threshold.


                                  VI

For a full moment as their eyes met, man and girl stared speechless. To
Standish, who a few short weeks ago had thought himself cut off forever
from his people, she was a vision of loveliness. Her hair was dark, and
her face was a delicate one of natural beauty.

"This is Thalia," the Emperor said, "born on your planet, but brought
here as a child. Perhaps you recall a liner, the Colossus, which was
lost and never reached port some twenty years ago?"

"Glory, yes!" exclaimed Standish.

"The Colossus was destroyed by the Sirians. It was their first attack
on an Earth craft, and I believe the initial act which led them on.
Thalia was the only survivor when we came upon the ship, drifting, a
derelict."

The girl stepped forward now shyly. "My greetings," she said.

Standish took her hand, and a strange thrill shot through him. Then the
Emperor leaned back in his chair, lit a short metal pipe and began his
story....

Thousands of years before, the Sirians had come to raid this planet,
Lyra, attracted by the wealth of minerals: coronium, thanium, margon,
gold and silver. They had destroyed the libraries, the laboratories,
the schools. They had killed the scientists and all men suspected of
higher intelligence. For generations, the people of Lyra had been held
in bondage.

Then an Emperor had come into power, gifted with a scientific reasoning
far in advance of his time. He had constructed a warp in space on three
sides of the planet. This alteration of the space-time coordinates
served as an impregnable defense.

Until Drum Faggard had come upon the scene. With but one desire--to
continue his war on Earth and the solar system, Faggard had broken
through the space warp and destroyed the time machine that operated it.

"And so," concluded the Emperor, "we of Lyra today are but ghosts of
our past. Our heritage has been stolen from us. We are far removed in
space, so have been unable to obtain allies. Even your planet, Earth,
does not know of our presence. The Sirians have told us that your
observers believe Lyra unfit to support life. And the few rocket ships
we have left are not capable of crossing that immense distance."

Standish sat in thoughtful silence. Abruptly the girl, Thalia, moved to
his side.

"Will you help us?" she said. "You have knowledge, and knowledge is
power. Will you aid Lyra in its fight for freedom?"

Standish stood up slowly, face a grim line of determination. "Yes," he
said. "I'll do all I can."

       *       *       *       *       *

He began with a survey of the city of Calthedra. With Ga-Marr answering
his many questions, Standish passed from street to street, building to
building, no detail missing his sharp eyes. He saw the wreckage of the
space warp machine, broken ray cannon, the debris-choked lower levels
where once light-hearted Lyrians had their libraries and laboratories.

Then Standish spent two days devising an intelligence test as he
remembered them from his Earth studies. The test, he instructed
Ga-Marr, was to be given to every able-bodied man in Calthedra.

He spent a week more checking the results. But at length from the mass
of papers he selected twenty-four Lyrians whose IQ rating and general
scientific aptitude seemed in advance of their fellows. The Earthman
then revealed his plan to Ga-Marr.

"We're going to build a space ship," he said, "a super destroyer with
the most powerful atomic motors I've ever designed. We're going to take
this war into our own hands--attack, rather than wait to be attacked."

A call for workmen was broadcast. The response was overwhelming. All
Calthedra, all Lyra wanted to help the man from Earth in the struggle
to free them from bondage.

With the twenty-four picked men as overseers, the work began. A flat
space was selected beyond the outskirts of the city. Food depots were
thrown up, together with temporary housing quarters. Like a colony of
ants, the workmen labored in three shifts. At night, the work went on
by the light of solar-condensor lamps mounted on towers at every point
of vantage.

The ship began to take form. A long cigar-shaped blue-black hull
was fashioned out of "_feloranium_", a metal peculiar to Lyra which
Standish toughened by the addition of five alloys. At intermittent
spaces along that hull, disappearing ray guns were swivel-mounted,
operated and loaded by remote control.

The Earthman personally supervised the installation of the atomic
motors. Each he had given the most strenuous block tests. Switched on,
they purred like six gargantuan cats, alive with effortless strength.

Finally Ga-Marr climbed out of the huge cabin and smiled.

"It is completed," he said. "Only the heat units remain to be tested.
What now?"

"Now," said Standish.... But his words were never finished. From the
roof of the palace the warning siren burst into a wailing clamor.
Ga-Marr's face blanched.

"The Sirians!" he cried. "They'll destroy all we've done."

With a single leap Standish was across to the microphone of the field
amplifying system.

"Wait!" his voice boomed out. "If you run, all your work will be for
nothing. We still have a chance, but we must hide this ship. I want
each of you to bring here every movable object you can find. Do you
understand? Every movable object!"

The field saw strange activity then. While the siren continued to
scream out its warning, an endless procession of Lyrians raced in and
out of Calthedra, carrying stone blocks, furniture, doors, articles of
every description.

"Looks like moving day back on Earth," Standish said to Ga-Marr with a
lightness he didn't feel. His fists clenched. "We'll beat them yet."

He ran for the palace. Even as he raced up the inclined ramp of the
rear entrance, he saw five Sirian battle cruisers land with a roar in
the central square. Inside, Standish moved swiftly to the quarters
of the Emperor. The old man was leaning weakly against a chair, eyes
smoldering.

Without preamble the Earthman explained what he had done. Then he had
barely time to leap through the doorway into the adjoining room.

       *       *       *       *       *

Heavy steps sounded in the hall. A moment later six men entered the
chamber and strode belligerently to the Emperor. Five of them were
Sirians. The sixth was a man of Earth--a tall broad shouldered man with
a bullet head and a cruel predatory face. This was Drum Faggard.

He wore the Sirian uniform and a flowing scarlet cloak hung from his
shoulders. At his waist were holstered two long barreled genithode
pistols.

"Your mines are lying idle," Faggard snarled. "Why?"

Through the crevice between the partially closed door Standish saw the
Emperor shrug eloquently. "We have had troubles."

"What troubles?"

The Emperor hesitated. "Labor," he said. "My workers refuse to toil
further when the results of their work are stolen from them. They see
no reason to struggle for the benefit of murdering raiders."

Blunt anger crimsoned Faggard's face. He struck the Emperor hard across
the face. "Watch your tongue, fool!"

Standish made fists of his hands. He had an overpowering desire to leap
into the room and seize the renegade. To do that, however, he knew,
would mean failure for his plans.

Drum Faggard paced to a window.

"What is the meaning of all that material piled outside the city?"

Quietly the Emperor continued to play his part. "We are moving to new
grounds," he explained, "moving higher into the hills. The weather on
Lyra is changing, growing warmer due to the planet's gradual approach
to our sun. Surely your observers must have noticed it."

For a long moment the renegade stood there motionless, digesting this
information. Then he crossed back to the table, slammed a mailed fist
down upon it.

"Old man, I give you one more chance. Either those mines are worked and
a double amount of ore made ready for us, or we level Calthedra to the
ground. Do you understand? We will return later."

He turned on his heel, and the five Sirians followed puppet-like into
the corridor. Darting across to the window, Standish saw them march
pompously across the square and enter the space cruisers. A moment
later, with a roar of rocket exhaust, the six armored vessels shot
upward.

Standish turned and ran out the door, heading for the landing field.
Half way he met Ga-Marr.

"The ruse worked," the Emperor's son exulted. "They've gone."

"Order the ship cleared!" Standish commanded. "We take off at once."

Quickly the screen of material was torn from the new ship. A vat of
necessary water and a case of food concentrate were hastily carried
into the storage chamber. The twenty-four chosen Lyrians took their
places. In the pilot cuddy, Standish nodded to Ga-Marr and pulled down
the microphone of the ship address-system.

"Close stern hatch!" he ordered.

A dial flicked on the panel before him, and from the loudspeaker a
voice answered:

"Hatch closed, sir."

"Close midships-tower."

"Midships-tower closed."

"Gunner's mate!" Standish called. "Test all gun swivels, air locks and
automatic loaders."

There was a moment's pause. Then:

"All guns tested, sir."

Standish motioned Ga-Marr to shut the pilot cuddy hatch. But before
Ga-Marr could swing the hermetic barrier into position, a lithe figure
leaped down the ladder. It was the Earth girl--Thalia.

"I'm going with you," she said. "This is my battle as well as yours."

Standish looked into her defiant black eyes and frowned. But the
refusal that rose to his lips died unsounded. He nodded and motioned
her to the settee on the far side of the cuddy.

In rotation then, he snapped on the six atomic motors. A dull tremor of
life and power shook the ship. Then Standish seized an electro-welder
left behind by some workman, flung open the hatch and ran outside to
the stern of the ship.

Roughly, while Ga-Marr watched bewildered, he seared the name,
_Phantom_, on the _feloranium_ hull. He leaped back to the cuddy,
slammed shut the hatch and threw over the acceleration lever.

The huge ship lifted from the field of its birth and roared up into the
stratosphere.


                                  VII

It was Standish's plan to permit the six departing Sirian cruisers
to cover sufficient distance that they would not associate
him--immediately at least--with the plundered planet, Lyra. With
unleashed power at his fingertips, he planned to pass his quarry on a
higher plane, then circle and return.

The _Phantom_ functioned like a dream. Up through space she bored,
annihilating distance, sweeping out into the star fields in hot
pursuit. Warm clear air circulated out from the oxygizers. Each dial
and gauge told its proper story. Even the heat units, which had not
been properly tested, operated smoothly.

Standish pulled down the cosmoscope and surveyed the way ahead. He saw
star clusters and constellations. Ahead, tail sweeping out in a blaze
of glory, a comet crossed his path. But nowhere did he sight the Sirian
cruisers.

"I'm afraid they've got too great a start on us," said Ga-Marr. Thalia
drew in her breath sharply.

"That black speck ahead...."

Standish threw over the accelerator another notch and twisted helm
sharply. The _Phantom_ answered her controls. The Earthman was
maneuvering for position now. Far below him, he saw the six cruisers
materialize in his vision.

And then, with a dull roar, the _Phantom_ swung and leaped for the
attack.

"They see us!" Thalia cried. "They're going into battle-formation!"

With Drum Faggard's flag ship in the lead, the six cruisers turned and
headed toward them in squadron formation. It was evident that they were
still unaware of the identity of the black ship. The visiscreen clicked
on, and Faggard's face appeared in the panel.

"We are Section one, general Sirian Expeditionary Force, Sirius to
Earth, heading for regular interplanetary lanes," he said, following
the customary salutation. "Who are you?"

Standish flipped on his own microphone, but disconnected the vision
panel so that no return image would be broadcast.

"Destroyer _Phantom_," he replied, muffling his voice. "Captain Ether
commanding. Stand by for boarding or we open fire on you."

Faggard's gross face, crimson with rage, flashed back on the screen.

"Are you mad? We are six to your one. From what planet do you come?
Show your colors."

"I'll show my colors," Standish muttered, a grim smile playing about
his lips. He switched on the ship address system.

"Port gunner. Stand by for shot across enemy's bows. Elevation six.
Trajectory five."

There was an excited reply. Standish twisted his helm a fraction of a
turn.

"Fire!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Phantom_ recoiled slightly, but there was no sound, no tell-tale
streak of flame. Only on the Sirian flagship was there any evidence of
what had happened. A gaping hole appeared in the vessel's hull. The
ship faltered momentarily. Then, Standish knew, hermetic bulkheads
automatically closed, and she swung on a wide arc.

"They're spreading out," Ga-Marr said. "They're going to attack from
both sides."

The flagship shot into another plane. The remaining five cruisers
surged toward the _Phantom_, firing as they came. Standish saw the
strategy and realized he was pitted against no amateur fighter.

He signaled to fire both forward guns, holding his position boldly.
At that moment, one of the cruisers attempted a maneuver old in space
warfare. Charging head-on toward the _Phantom_, the cruiser's commander
sought to frighten Standish into turning broadside.

Thalia uttered a scream. "They're going to ram us!" she cried.

The Earthman nodded. "Let them. If they do, they'll be in for a
surprise."

On came the cruiser. The _Phantom_ did not alter her course. And then,
at the moment the Sirian realized the ruse had failed, Standish threw
his helm, heading directly toward the enemy. The two vessels struck
squarely.

In the pilot cuddy Standish, Ga-Marr and Thalia were hurled to the
floor. The Earthman struggled erect, helped the girl to her feet.

"Are you hurt?" he asked.

"No, but the ship...."

"Look!" Standish pointed out the port.

A horrible sight met the girl's eyes. The _Phantom's_ stout
_feloranium_ sides were unharmed. But the Sirian cruiser had broken
into three sections. Even as she watched, figures were catapulted out
into space, and the whole mass of debris began to rotate slowly around
another enemy ship, forming a macabre satellite.

The remaining four cruisers circled and began to close in.

"All starboard guns," Standish ordered. "Elevation one. Double charge.
Fire!"

The recoil was jarring. Two cruisers fell back, rocket motors stilled,
huge rents in their forward quarters. And with that, Drum Faggard's
flag ship and the other cruiser turned about and fled.

"They've had enough," Ga-Marr exulted.

"Faggard is the one I want," Standish said. "We'll come back and tow in
those two disabled ships later."

But the Earthman had reckoned without the huge planetoid swarm which
lay directly in their path. The two Sirian ships plunged into the midst
of these miniature worlds and in an instant were lost.

Power control wide open, Standish zoomed in pursuit. But though he
swung the cosmoscope to every angle he saw no sign of his quarry.

"He's slid through our fingers this time," he told Ga-Marr bitterly.
"But our chance will come again."

Heavily he swung the tiller and returned to the area of combat. The
two helpless cruisers and the portions of the third were drifting idly
without steerageway. Standish steered the _Phantom_ alongside, shot out
the magnetic grappling bars and secured the two derelicts.

Then he headed the big ship back to Lyra.

A great crowd awaited them. As the _Phantom_ and its twin burden
settled slowly downward, hundreds of Lyrians ran to the landing field.
The court guard, resplendent in shining armor, took their places in
formation, and the Emperor and his ministers hastily assembled on a
raised pavilion.

Then the two wrecked cruisers were opened, and the prisoners led forth.

"You will be well treated," the Emperor addressed them collectively.
"We do not subjugate our captives of war after your fashion; but
until the Sirians cease their raids upon this planet, you will not be
permitted to leave."

Standish ordered the _Phantom_ inspected and such damage as had been
inflicted by Drum Faggard's guns repaired. Then with Thalia at his
side, he moved slowly toward the palace.

"Some day," he said, "all this will be over. I don't know how, but I'm
going to do everything in my power to bring this bloody war to an end.
Then ..."

The girl smiled and lowered her eyes. "Then?" she prompted softly.

But Standish colored and became suddenly silent. Even during the heat
of the battle, his heart had not beat as fast as it was beating now.


                                 VIII

Six Lyrian months had passed since Standish and Ga-Marr had escaped
from the unknown planet. During those months the fame of the _Phantom_
had spread fast as light. From the constellation Cygnus to the twelfth
and fifteenth magnitude stars, the name of Captain Ether, behind which
Standish hid his identity swept through the interplanetary lanes.
Transports from powerful and peaceful Alpha Centauri moved with extra
convoys, ready for instant action. No one knew when the _Phantom_ would
strike. No one knew from what planet it came to attack like a black
meteor without warning.

Yet Standish challenged no ship but those of Sirius. Haunting the
lanes between Sirius and Earth, he seized enemy prison ships and troop
transports alike with daring regularity.

The city of Calthedra was filled to overflowing with Sirian prisoners.
But the man Standish wanted most, Drum Faggard, was never on a captured
ship.

Desire to capture Faggard became almost an obsession as the Earthman
went on. Through the powerful radio which he had built on Lyra, he
learned of the situation on Earth, day by day.

The news was black. Canada, Mexico and Central America were now a part
of the armed camp of the invaders. The Greater United States alone had
managed to remain independent. Breastworks a quarter of a mile high had
been erected on the Canadian and Mexican frontiers.

The only bright spot was the fact that Faggard's "big push" had failed.
Often Standish smiled as he listened in on radio messages between the
Sirian government and Drum Faggard at his Frisco base.

"The _Phantom_ has been sighted, lurking near Ganymede. Dispatch five
cruisers to that satellite immediately."

And again: "The _Phantom_, it is learned on definite authority, comes
from some point in future time. It is able to maintain a speed in
excess of light, violating the Fitzgerald contraction, riding the
fourth dimensional continuum."

To which Drum Faggard always snarled the same reply. "Whoever Captain
Ether is, I'll get him. Give me time."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the day of his return from his most successful raid; and
Standish and Thalia were walking arm in arm through the palace garden
on Lyra. Flowers were in the full bloom of the planet's early summer,
and the sun glowed upon them warmly.

"The _Phantom_ is not enough," the Earthman said. "Powerful as she
is, she can only plague the Sirians like a single hornet. With all my
efforts, I have not halted the war against Earth one iota."

Thalia shook her head. "You've done all one person possibly could do."

"I need an army and a fleet," Standish said. "Yet on all Lyra there
will not be sufficiently trained men to furnish either for a long time."

The girl stood there, idly plucking the petals of a flower. Abruptly
she turned.

"The Sirian prisoners! Even the private soldiers are equipped with
scientific knowledge. Why not use them?"

But Standish shook his head. "They would refuse. We could force them to
do physical work, of course. But that's all ... I ..."

"Listen." Excitement suddenly entered Thalia's voice. "In the
laboratories in the lower levels there is a machine built by the early
Lyrians long ago. No one understands its operation now. But its some
kind of an electro-hypnotic machine. Couldn't you use it on the Sirians
and make them _want_ to help us?"

A glitter in his eyes, Standish considered a moment, then leaped to his
feet.

"Let's have a look," he said.

They left the garden, crossed the square and entered the ancient tunnel
that led to the old laboratories. In the first level the Earthman
found nothing that answered the girl's description. But in a storage
room far back in the second tier he came upon two of the strange
machines, dust covered, in places red with rust.

Mounted on wheels, the instruments consisted of a small cart with twin
panels and a confusing array of dials. Above each machine was a helix
of tightly wound silver wire. At the bottom was a transparent globe
still half-filled with a thick greenish liquid.

"According to Ga-Marr," Thalia said, "these machines were used by the
early Sirians for medical purposes. They found in the principal of
applied hypnosis a cure for a great many ills."

Standish nodded. Without further word, he took up a small wrench and
removed the panel from one of the instruments, carefully examining the
revealed wiring.

"They seemed to be constructed for use on ordinary electric power. But
not the power supplied by Calthedra's dynamoes. I'll have to step up
the frequency."

He opened a wall switchboard and quickly connected two wires to the
machine. On a table he found a transformer. Thalia stood by in silence
while he hooked up wires, condensers, and a small loading coil.
Presently he looked up with a nod.

"We'll give her a try and see what happens."

"Stand over there in front of the helix," Standish said. "I don't
think there's any danger. Unless I'm wrong, the thing simply places
the patient in an electro magnetic field and transmits an alternating
vibration to the human brain."

He played with the dials a long time, twisted a rheostat experimentally.

"Notice anything?"

"Yes, I ..." The Earth girl's voice died off. A vacant look entered her
eyes. "What is your wish?" she asked suddenly.

Standish made a quick adjustment to the controls. "Sit down," he
commanded.

Obediently, Thalia moved across to a chair and sat stiffly erect.

"You have studied some mathematics," Standish said then. "Tell me, what
is the principal of the algebraic curve?"

Without hesitation Thalia replied, "A curve, the equation of which
contains no transcendental quantities; a figure the intercepted
diameters of which bear always the same proportion to their respective
ordinates."

Standish uttered a low cry of triumph and threw over the reverse lever
of the machine. An instant later Thalia stared at him in bewilderment.

"What happened?"

"It worked," Standish replied. "With that device and a hundred more
like it I will build, I can control every last Sirian prisoner. I can
make them help us build an entire fleet, using all their scientific
knowledge."

Thalia's eyes glowed. "We'll be fighting them with their own people,"
she said.


                                  IX

The electro-hypnosis machines finished, Standish enlisted Ga-Marr's aid
and proceeded to try them on a group of Sirian prisoners.

"After all," the Earthman said, "what we're doing is for the sake of
your planet and mine. These prisoners will suffer no ill effect, but by
organizing their efforts, we can aid a great cause."

He turned a control knob, and a low hum sounded in the machine. The
green liquid in the globe began to bubble, and a column of mist climbed
upward through the connecting tube.

Improved as they were by Standish, the machines immediately placed the
Sirians in a mental state where they were receptive to all commands.
Yet they retained full control of their mental faculties.

The work began. Frameworks for twenty space destroyers were laid. Like
automatons the Sirians toiled, worked side by side with the men of
Lyra. The twenty hulls were completed, and the atomic motors were being
installed when Standish called Ga-Marr aside.

"I'm going to leave you in charge," the Earthman said, "while I take
the _Phantom_ out again. The more prisoners, the quicker we'll have a
fleet. Besides the Sirians will have grown careless again by now."

This time, however, Standish steadfastly refused to take Thalia along.

"I'm going to skirt the very stratosphere of Earth," he told her, "and
it'll be too dangerous. But I'll be back soon."

Thalia pouted, but Standish was firm.

With another Lyrian, Dar-ley, as his lieutenant, Standish took off. He
headed at full speed for the interplanetary lane between Sirius and
Earth. As he went on, suspicion assailed him. Not a single Sirian ship
did he see. Once a slow-moving freighter from far off Protorus crossed
his path. The freighter clapped on all speed in a frantic attempt to
escape. But Standish viewed it without interest.

He was drawing close to Earth. Alert, Standish kept the moon between
him and his home planet, advancing cautiously. But there was no sign of
trouble. The spaceways were empty.

Now the cold expanse of the moon opened before him. The _Phantom_
soared over Tycho, Aristotle and Petavius, dipped downward and came to
a rest on a barren lava plain. Standish took down a space suit, and a
small magno telescope and went out through the air lock. Pacing slowly
across the frigid flat, he tried to fathom the growing puzzle.

A hundred yards from the ship he trained his scope on Earth, staring
long and intently. But the range was too great and the scope too weak
for detailed observation.

And then abruptly he stiffened. Through the powerful retinite lens a
tiny dot focused his vision. A rocket ship! He adjusted the glass and
studied her lines. Unquestionably she was Sirian and heading toward the
moon on an oblique angle.

Standish ran for the _Phantom_. The air lock closed; he threw over the
control lever, and the big ship headed with a lurch for the enemy.

In the pilot cuddy Dar-Ley watched the cosmoscope and intoned the
distance measurements.

"Thirty thousand miles. Enemy still following same course."

"Twenty thousand. No change."

"Eight hundred."

A frown crossed Standish's face. The Sirian ship must have seen them by
now. Alone and without convoy, it should have turned and fled.

Puzzled, the Earthman ordered a shot across the enemy's bows. The
Sirian did not change her course. And then Dar-Ley gave a frantic cry.

"Behind us. Look!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Six Sirian ships were racing out from the surface of the moon in battle
formation. Even as Standish looked, he saw four more cruisers join the
others, spread out to cut off the _Phantom_.

He realized then that he had blundered into a trap. The Sirians had
been waiting for him. The single cruiser had been the bait which he had
swallowed blindly.

"We'll have to run for it," Dar-Ley cried. "They're too many for us."

Standish's teeth came together grimly. "We'll give them a fight for
their money first."

On toward the cruiser the _Phantom_ raced. The ship staggered as the
Sirian opened fire, and two of the shots glanced harmlessly off the
_feloranium_ hull. But with five well-placed shots Standish demolished
the Sirian's guns and left her floating helplessly. Then the _Phantom_
turned helm and ran alongside on the opposite side of the cruiser.

In an instant Dar-Ley saw Standish's strategy. The _Phantom_ was now
protected with the cruiser between her and the fleet. The Earthman
flipped open his microphone switch.

"Rocket bomb. Full charge. Point four."

There was a deafening report as the bomb erupted from its cylinder.
Through the port Standish saw the nearest Sirian ship explode into
fragments. He smiled grimly and swung his helm far over.

"Here we go, Dar-Ley. If they catch us, they'll have to move."

But fast though the _Phantom_ was, the fleet hung steadily in her wake.
Finally the Earthman switched on the boosters, auxiliary machines which
drew power from intra-spacial emanations and built up the speed of the
atomic motors. Gradually the fleet dropped behind.

"Close call!" Standish breathed. "Faggard almost got me that time."


                                   X

Standish had never believed in hunches, yet the moment he entered the
stratosphere of Lyra he knew something was wrong. A moment later he
was free of the cloud level and over Calthedra. A wave of despair shot
through him.

The city was a ruin. Not a single building remained. The great palace
was a mass of debris, and the choked streets were deserted. With a
great fear he headed the _Phantom_ for the landing field. Here a cry of
dismay escaped his lips.

The sleek space ships which had dotted the level were no more. Twisted
lumps of metal and scattered pieces of broken machinery were all that
remained of the fleet.

"In heaven's name," cried Dar-Ley, "what has happened?"

"Drum Faggard," said Standish heavily. "He attacked while we were gone.
It must have been only his lieutenants we met off the moon."

The _Phantom_ dropped to a landing, and the two men climbed out,
followed by the crew. A death-like silence reigned. As he stood there
staring at the grim devastation, the Earthman's fists clenched. The
Lyrians, the prisoners, the Emperor ... had they all gone?

And then he thought of Thalia!

He lurched into a stumbling run and headed for the ruined city. In
the metropolis the destruction was even more terrible. Ray guns had
leveled every structure to the ground. Dead Lyrians lay on all sides.
Every labor-saving device which had been constructed through Standish's
efforts had been shattered.

But an instant later, in the midst of this wreckage, he saw a familiar
figure stagger toward him. Ga-Marr!

The Emperor's son's face was caked with blood and his clothing was torn
to shreds, but he managed to gasp a single word:

"Water...!"

Standish dispatched Dar-Ley back to the _Phantom_ for a canteen, then
tore off his coat and rolled it into a pillow, forcing Ga-Marr to
rest his head upon it. But when the Lyrian struggled up on one elbow
and drank thirstily from Dar-Ley's canteen, Standish choked out the
question that was uppermost in his mind.

"Thalia! Where is she?"

Ga-Marr's voice was a sob. "Drum Faggard! He surprised us with an
entire fleet while you were gone. He kidnaped my father, and he took
Thalia."

A blur rose up before Standish's eyes. "And the others?" he demanded.
"The rest of your people? Can it be they all are dead?"

Ga-Marr shook his head. "They fled to the hills. I alone remained here
because I knew you would return."

It was time, Standish realized, for action. But what action? His fleet
was gone, all his work destroyed. Even the girl he had come to love
had been taken from him. He turned and stared helplessly at the black
hulled _Phantom_ resting on its mooring platform. Powerful as that
ship was, he knew it was not enough. He might raid more Sirian ships,
destroy more transports, but what would it avail him. He had played his
hand, and he had lost. He was up against a blank wall.

       *       *       *       *       *

And then a single object on the far side of the palace ruins focused
in his vision. Stone and debris were piled high there, but the little,
crudely-built space ship with which he and Ga-Marr had escaped from
the unknown planet had escaped damage. For a moment Standish's brow
furrowed in thought; then he uttered an exclamation.

"To the _Phantom_!" he said. "There may yet be a way...."

With Ga-Marr supported by Standish, they hurried down the debris-choked
streets and across to the landing field. Reaching the ship, the
Earthman turned his crew of twenty-four over to Dar-Ley, ordering them
to leave at once for the hills where they were to aid the Lyrians.

"But what are you going to do without a crew?" objected Dar-Ley.

Standish's face was a block of granite. "I'm going to fight trickery
with trickery," he said.

Then the Earthman and Ga-Marr entered the destroyer alone. Slowly,
Standish guided the big ship over the ruins of the city of Calthedra.
Above the palace, he suddenly shot out the magnetic grappling bars and
secured the little space ship.

"What can you do with that?" Ga-Marr frowned. "The thing has little
power and...."

But Standish, lips set hard, was moving the controls with silent
determination. Up the _Phantom_ shot, boring forward like a hound to
the hunt, carrying the crude little ship with it. Standish threw over
the accelerator to the farthest notch and switched on both boosters. He
motioned Ga-Marr into the control seat.

"Head directly for Earth. I'm going back and see if I can get a little
more speed out of those motors."

Hour after hour the big ship plunged, rocketing madly across the
star-filled heavens. Time and space were dropping behind them like
falling grains of sand. Standish, returning from the motor chamber, saw
the planets of Pluto and Uranus rise up far ahead. Then Earth came into
sight, a pin-point almost at the limit of his vision.

The Earthman glanced at the chronometer on the instrument panel. It
would be approximately midnight when they reached the North American
continent, judging by their present speed. Unless the Sirians at
their Frisco base were watching closely, they might be able to pass
unobserved.

Earth grew. Now the _Phantom_ was zooming down through the
stratosphere. Over New California they swept, checking trajectory by
reversing motors.

Over Omaha, Standish looked through the floor plate. Were the
front-line breastworks still here? Or had his people been forced to
retreat farther toward the Atlantic seaboard?

"I see lights," Ga-Marr said abruptly. "There seem to be fortifications
below us."

With a sigh of relief Standish guided the _Phantom_ downward. He was at
home again.


                                  XI

Officers and soldiers formed a cheering circle as he climbed out of
the hatch, followed by Ga-Marr. Old companions rushed forward to
shake the Earthman's hand and bombard him with questions. Smiling,
Standish pushed his way through the throng to the building marked
GHQ. An orderly ushered him inside, and a moment later he was facing
Attack-Engineer McClellan whose eyes were wide with amazement.

"Listen," Standish began without preamble, "I want to see a detailed
map and an aerial photograph of the Sirian's Frisco base. Have you got
one?"

McClellan bit into his cigar and nodded. He opened a cabinet and laid
out two large sheets.

"The pilot who made these barely got out with his life," he said. "I
don't suppose you'd care to tell me where you've been or what you've
got in mind, Standish."

Without answering Standish gazed at the maps and the photograph.
Presently he looked up.

"Prepare for a big push," he said. "Get all your guns and men ready
for immediate movement. And keep your observers watching this point,
Sector Five"--he indicated the area with his forefinger--"As soon as
the firing stops there, go through."

He turned then and ran back to the ship.

Straight into the stratosphere Standish guided the ship. As he
continued to climb higher into the night sky, Ga-Marr watched puzzled,
but made no comment. One thousand, two, three thousand miles slid
behind them. At length the Earthman turned.

"Set off the emergency rocket flares," he ordered.

Ga-Marr stared. "Are you mad, Mason? The Sirians will see us and...."

"Which is just what I want," Standish replied. "Hurry, man!"

Obediently Ga-Marr strode back along the passageway, began to push
contact buttons at regular intervals along the bulkhead wall. As he
did, long streamers of crimson fire erupted from the _Phantom's_ side.
In a moment the destroyer was a flaming mass. Standish set his controls
and took down two space suits.

He donned one of them, motioned Ga-Marr into the other. Then he tied a
rope to the lever controlling the magnetic grappling bar, trailing it
across the floor to the airlock.

"All right, Ga-Marr," he said. "Here we go."

The lock door slid open at his touch. Then and not until then did
Ga-Marr understand. Directly below them, held to the _Phantom's_ hull
by the magnetic bars was their crude space ship. Balancing himself
cautiously, Standish reached down and opened the hatch. He climbed in,
and Ga-Marr quickly followed. Then the Earthman gave the rope a jerk.
The grappling bars released, and the two ships drifted apart.

Alone and unmanned, the _Phantom_ swept downward, her exploding rockets
a blaze of glory in the black sky.

"And there goes the fleet!" Standish said. "They've sighted the
_Phantom_."

       *       *       *       *       *

Aware that hundreds of glasses must now be turned upward, he headed
south beyond the outskirts of the city. He selected a flat open space
by the ocean shore and glided quickly to a landing.

A hundred yards away the white expanse of a highway snaked through the
dark countryside. No one apparently had noticed their descent. At a
run, Standish headed for that highway. Twin head lights swept around a
curve as he reached it, and a heavy gyro truck rumbled into sight.

The truck slowed to manipulate the curve. An instant later Standish and
Ga-Marr leaped, clutched at the swaying tailboard and drew themselves
aboard.

Before a large white building the two men dropped from the truck,
darted across to the entrance. A Sirian guard stopped them armed with a
ray gun.

"Halt!"

Standish used his pistol this time, smashing its barrel down on the
Sirian's skull. Then a muffled voice sounded directly before them,
and the Earthman leaped across to a door and ripped it open. On the
threshold he stood rigid, staring inward.

The room was a richly furnished office. At a large desk in the center
sat a familiar figure. It was Drum Faggard, cigarette between his lips,
microphone in his hand.

"Put down that microphone, Faggard," Standish commanded. "If you speak
so much as a single word, I fire."

"Standish!" Faggard gasped.

The Earthman dropped silently into a chair, while Ga-Marr pulled a
small knife switch, disconnecting the microphone. Ga-Marr then paced to
the window and drew the blinds.

A gleam of cunning crossed Faggard's face. He turned the knob of the
radio and leaned forward. Then his right hand shot into the desk drawer
and clawed forth a small genithode gun.

But Standish had been expecting that move. His hand clamped over the
gun wrist, twisted the weapon free. Jamming his own gun hard into the
Sirian leader's ribs, Standish said,

"Talk. Call your officers and tell them to stand by for important
orders."

There were beads of perspiration on Faggard's brow now as he twisted
a dial of the radio and began to speak slowly and haltingly. On the
indicator panel on the far wall Standish saw little red lights flash
on as outpost-officer after officer acknowledged the call. The entire
Sirian army was listening in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Even as he finished, a terrific vibrating roar sounded from a distant
point of the city. The sound trembled the walls of the building, shook
the floor beneath their feet.

"The _Phantom_!" said Ga-Marr. "She struck!"

Faggard's face was livid. "You fool!" he snarled. "Do you realize what
you've done?"

Standish betrayed no emotion. "Perfectly. I've divided your army in
half. I've cut an aisle through your defense, through which my people
even now are beginning to advance."

Abruptly the Earthman's teeth clicked together. "Now what have you done
with Thalia and the Emperor. Tell me or...."

Faggard's shoulders slumped in defeat. He groped to his feet like
a blind man and stumbled across the room. "I'll show you," he said
huskily.

He open a connecting door, and Standish saw two familiar figures in
the adjoining room, an older man and a young girl. But in that instant
Faggard acted. He lunged across the room, reached up to a shelf filled
with chemical tubes and vials. Seizing a bottle of colorless liquid, he
threw it straight at Standish.

The bottle struck the door frame, and acid geysered in all directions.
The Earthman felt a hot stab of agony lance across his left arm.

But Ga-Marr was not taken off guard. His genithode pistol exploded even
as Faggard reached for a second bottle. The Sirian threw up his arms,
staggered and pitched forward on his face.

Thalia was in Standish's arms then, sobbing. But in the outer corridor
running steps sounded. A heavy fist banged on the door.

"In here," the girl cried. "This door. It leads to a tunnel that passes
under the city. It's Drum Faggard's secret avenue of retreat. He has
the key in his pocket."

As they sped to safety Standish felt a wave of elation sweep over him.
He had won...!

       *       *       *       *       *

Three days later a small cruiser took off from Omaha, swept through the
stratosphere and headed for the planet, Lyra, many light years distant.
Four persons occupied her pilot cabin: Standish, Thalia, Ga-Marr and
the emperor.

"It's all over," the Earthman said to the girl. "The war is
ended. Sirius' power is forever broken, and even now the work of
reconstruction has begun. Earth and the whole solar system can return
to peace."

Ga-Marr nodded. "What now?" he asked.

"Now, we're going home." Standish drew Thalia close. "Your home and
mine. Our future lies out there in the new frontier."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Cosmic Castaway, by Carl Jacobi

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COSMIC CASTAWAY ***

***** This file should be named 62319.txt or 62319.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/3/1/62319/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
