The Project Gutenberg EBook of Mutiny in the Void, by Charles R. Tanner

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Mutiny in the Void

Author: Charles R. Tanner

Release Date: June 8, 2020 [EBook #62350]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MUTINY IN THE VOID ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          Mutiny in the Void

                         By CHARLES R. TANNER

                 Manool's plan for breaking the mutiny
               on the _Berenice_ was simplicity itself.
                 He utterly destroyed the plants that
                 furnished oxygen for the entire ship.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1943.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The tank-room of the rocket-ship _Berenice_, where the big tanks of
water-weed were kept, was so spick and span that a man needed little
psychology to realize that its manager was a dapper, finicky, careful
little man. The room's lights were bright and efficient, the water
in the tanks fresh and clean, and there were no decaying fronds of
vegetation among the thousands of stems of water-weed which, floating
about in the tank, absorbed the carbon dioxide which was pumped through
the water, and gave back a constant stream of tiny bubbles of oxygen.

For this "farm," as the tank-room was called, was the oxygen-producer
for the rocket, and under the expert care of Manool Sarouk, the
"farmer," it kept the air as fresh and wholesome as the air of Earth.
Manool was proud of his work, and of the way he handled it, just as he
was proud of his appearance, and the way he kept _that_.

But at the moment thoughts of pride and satisfaction were furthest from
Manool Sarouk's mind. He had just opened the door of the tank-room and
entered, and on his face were written terror and anxiety, and written
in unmistakable characters.

For Manool had just been an unconscious eavesdropper on a
conversation--a conversation between Gilligan, the tall, cadaverous
"mate" of the ship, and one of the fuel-wrestlers. Manool didn't know
the name of the wrestler, for most of the crew were new men, picked by
Gilligan on this, his second trip with the _Berenice_.

But his name was of no moment--it was the gist of the conversation that
mattered. It was that which made the dapper little "farmer" tremble
with anxiety and, yes--terror. For they had spoken of mutiny--and of
mutiny imminent and likely to break out at any minute.

Manool was neat, and Manool was proud, but no one would call him brave.
He was frightened now--frightened almost out of his wits, and uncertain
as to what he should do. He mechanically reached into the breast of
his jacket and drew out a tobaccolette. He stuck it in his mouth and
inhaled it, wishing it was a cigarette he was smoking. Ninety-nine
"farmers" out of a hundred wasted oxygen by smoking tobacco, but not
Manool. The rules said "no cigarettes," so it was "no cigarettes" for
him.

He tossed the tobaccolette away before it was half empty and began to
pace the floor nervously. He went to the washstand and brushed the
stain of the tobaccolette from his teeth. He made a test of the air,
and smiled a little as he noted that the oxygen content was well above
par. He examined the weeds, and removed a sickly looking frond or two.
But his mind was not on his work, and he soon resumed his uneasy pacing.

And then there was a knock on the door. His heart flew into his mouth;
he glanced around to see if there was any place to flee, and then
called out weakly: "Who's there?"

"It's me--Gilligan," came the sharp voice of the mate, and Manool's
panic became, if possible, greater.

"What--what do you want?" he stammered.

Gilligan's voice grew even sharper. "What's the matter with you,
Manool?" he snapped. "Lemme in. I want to have a talk with you."

Manool was trembling violently, but he moved forward and unlatched the
door. The tall abnormally-thin mate strode in, a sort of ingratiating
smile hovering over his face.

"Nice little place you got here, Manool," he said with a forced smile.
"Too bad I never had a chance to visit you here before."

He strode over to Manool's stool, the only seat in the "farm," and took
possession of it. He looked about him, glanced at Manool once or twice
and gradually his smile became more natural.

"Manool," he said, "you're an officer of sorts, maybe only a warrant
officer, but still--you eat with them, so I've been considering you as
an officer. But--well, I like you, Manool, and--you've heard more than
you should, I believe, so I've come to have a little _talk_ with you."

       *       *       *       *       *

He lowered his voice and looked around warily before he continued.
Then, "Manool," he said. "I'm going to make things plain. You heard me
talkin' to Larry, a while ago, and you must be suspicious. Well, your
suspicion is right. There's going to be mutiny aboard this hunk of
fireworks and Cap Tarrant is going to lose his job. Know why? 'Cause
I'm one of Huddersfield's men, and I've been working to seize this ship
for eight months."

Manool shuddered.

"Huddersfield, the Cerean?" he asked.

"The very same! Huddersfield has seized an asteroid and intends to
start a fleet of rockets. He's got a couple already and this'll be his
third. When we get enough, things'll pop, I'll tell you.

"Now listen, Manool--you can throw in with us and go in for
Huddersfield, or you can run and tell Cap Tarrant--and get your bloody
knob knocked off when we take the ship. 'Cause the men are all with me,
Manool, all of 'em, and there ain't a chance of Tarrant winning if it
comes to battle."

He stopped, evidently waiting for Manool to speak. The little farmer
looked up miserably. "But--what can I do?" he cried, plaintively. "Me,
I ain't no fighter, Gilligan. You don't want me for a fighter in your
crew."

Gilligan stood up, smiling broadly. Manool's obvious terror of him
seemed to have reassured him considerably. He winked confidently.

"Manool," he said. "Your business is to keep the air clean, and that's
all you have to do. Except to keep your mouth shut, too. 'Cause if
you peep to the Captain, or to Navigator Rogers, you'll be the first
to die when we cut loose. _But_--" He winked again and his smile
broadened. "You keep the wind fair and the trap closed, and you won't
be forgotten."

       *       *       *       *       *

He gave one final wink and stepped out, closing the door behind him.
And he left Manool in a turmoil of uncertainty. The little farmer knew
well where his duty lay. If he did the right thing, he'd go at once to
Captain Tarrant and inform him of the impending rebellion. But, if he
did, Gilligan would surely get him. He knew well that the threat the
thin mate had made had been no idle one.

But if he didn't inform the captain--if he didn't, he'd be a mutineer,
too. And he'd have to take his share, and leave the earth, a fugitive,
and probably cast his lot with the infamous Huddersfield. He certainly
didn't want to do that, either.

He strode back and forth in the tank-room, a victim of uncertainty. He
didn't know _what_ to do, he told himself, plaintively.... He still
didn't know, when dinner time came.

Manool's abstraction at the dinner table was so noticeable that young
Captain Tarrant was forced to speak of it.

"Where's your appetite, Sarouk?" he asked. "You haven't even finished
your soup. Aren't you feeling well?"

Manool's face reddened as he answered, but old Doc Slade looked up and
eyed Manool keenly.

"You better come in and see me after dinner, Sarouk," he suggested.
"Maybe you got something wrong and I'll have some work to do. You stop
in and see me."

Manool was about to insist that he had nothing wrong with him, when he
caught Doc's eye, and realized that the old man knew something. And
then he realized that here was opportunity knocking. He could go in and
see Doc Slade, and Gilligan would never suspect anything. He rose from
the table murmuring: "I'll be in and see you in a few minutes, Doc."
Then hurried back to the farm.

He entered the tank-room and checked everything again. He put on a
clean shirt, and brushed his teeth and combed his straight black hair.
Then, after a moment's consideration, he brushed his teeth again. Doc
might take a notion to examine him, and he certainly didn't want his
teeth to be soiled, if Doc looked at his mouth and throat.

He was about to leave the tank-room when he heard a cry from somewhere
down the passage. It was a startled cry, and it was followed by a sharp
command that ended in an oath. His heart leaped into his mouth. Not an
officer on the ship ever used profanity to the men. Besides, he'd have
recognized the voice of any of the four officers. That command had been
shouted by one of the men, and the cry that had preceded it had been
one of surprise. Had the mutiny started already?

As if in answer to his question, the sharp report of an automatic rang
out suddenly through the passageway. Manool swung the door shut and
ducked back as suddenly as if the bullet had been fired at him. He was
beginning to tremble; he felt a smothering constriction of his throat,
and yet, at the same time, an unreasoning thrill of excitement was
rising within him. He felt an overpowering desire to see what was going
on outside.

For many minutes his caution overcame his curiosity, but at last the
continual silence convinced him that, in all probability, the mutiny
was over. So, ever so slowly, he stepped out into the corridor and
started down. The hall where he had heard the shot proved to be quite
empty, and he wondered where everybody was. This was certainly a queer
mutiny, nothing like any he had ever read about. He trod more and more
cautiously, and it dawned on him that this silence was more fearsome
than tumult would have been.

He was passing a store-room just then, and when he was just abreast
of the door, it was flung suddenly open and there was one of the
fuel-wrestlers, with a loaded automatic leveled at Manool's chest, and
a spiteful look in his eyes.

Manool's reaction was almost automatic. He threw up his hands and
shouted, "Don't shoot." And from behind the fuel-wrestler, another
voice--Gilligan's--said, "Let him alone, it's the farmer." Then it grew
sharper as the mate snapped, "Get in here, Manool. What are you doin'
wanderin' around in the halls? You want to get shot?"

Manool was almost too scared to speak. "I was looking for you," he
answered. "I think the fight is all over, so I look for you."

"It ain't all over, by a dam' sight," Gilligan snarled. "You seen Doc
Slade?"

"I ain't seen nobody," Sarouk answered, truthfully. "I just came out of
the farm and walked down here. I hear a shot, while ago."

"That was when we took a pop at Slade. I think he must have had some
suspicions, the way he acted. Now, look, Manool," the mate went on,
"this stuff ain't exactly in your line. You better go back to the farm
and lay low till I call you."

Manool was still a little trembly from the scare he'd got when he
saw the pistol pointed at his breast. He nodded enthusiastically
at Gilligan's suggestion, darted to the door and, running down the
corridor, he crept into the tank-room without another word.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was in the tank-room, alone, for hours, it seemed. It was almost
time for supper when there was a knock on the door, and when he
hesitatingly opened it, Gilligan came in with a big smile on his face.

"Well, it's all over but the shoutin', Manool," he boasted. "We've got
Tarrant and Navigator Rogers cooped up in the dining room. They've got
food and water, and they've locked themselves in, but we got a guard
posted at the door, and we'll get 'em if they make a break. We got Doc
Slade, too--alive. He fought like a tiger, hurt two of the boys before
we nailed him, but we took him, alive, and we're holding him, up in the
weighin' room. Cookie's stirred up some supper, so come on up and eat.
You needn't be afraid," he added as an afterthought. "The fighting's
all over."

Manool followed him out of the door and down the passageway. They went
up the stairs to the loading room near the central axis of the rocket;
Manool feeling again the dizziness that he always felt when he lost
weight. He had never really become a spaceman, in spite of all his
years in space. He walked a little uncertainly and giddily into the
room, a pace or two behind Gilligan.

The entire crew was there. Doc Slade was there, too. He had a black
eye and a long, deep scratch down one side of his face. His hands were
tied, and he was seated on a stool with his legs tied to the stool's.
Doc's eyes widened when he saw Manool walk in with Gilligan; then
a look of scorn came into them and he turned his head away. Manool
squirmed uncomfortably under his gaze--he liked Doc Slade, and Doc had
always liked him, up to now. He hoped these fellows wouldn't hurt the
old Doc.

The table was set and the crew were about to sit down to eat. Manool
was seated beside Gilligan, and they untied Doc's hands and sat him
down, too, at the opposite end of the table.

The meal was sheer torture to the little farmer. The crew ignored him,
Gilligan ignored him, and Doc Slade--Doc wouldn't ignore him, and
Manool wished he would. Before the meal was over, Manool was in an
agony of anxiety. He wondered what would become of Tarrant and Rogers;
he wondered what they'd do to Doc Slade; he wondered also what they
were going to do to _him_.

The crew was uproariously jovial. They had broken out a case of gin
that one of them had probably smuggled aboard, and they lit cigarettes
and split a bottle and were having a glorious time. It grew more
glorious after the third bottle, and one of them brought up the
suggestion that they divide the cargo among them right then, to "see
what they were going to get."

Gilligan frowned and tried to wave the suggestion down, but a half
dozen voices snarled angrily at his refusal, and the slim mate was
forced to acquiesce with as good grace as possible. A loader was
delegated to guard Doc Slade, then the entire remainder of the crew
started aft to the "hold."

In those days, ships usually carried things that were mighty hard to
get or make on Mars, and were not too scarce on Earth. In this case,
there was a ton of U235, a lot of organic chemicals that still couldn't
be synthesized from their elements, and an assortment of odds and ends
that were prized by the Martian natives in spite of their cheapness.

Into the bins where this stuff was stored, the shouting pirates who
had lately been a well-behaved crew swarmed, shouting and pushing, and
laying claim to this and that and the other; and in less than five
minutes, three separate fights started. Gilligan stormed, threatened,
and at last resorted to violence.

"This stuff'll never be divided fair if you lugs try to settle it by
fightin' for it," he roared after he had clipped a couple of them.
"What do you think you are, a bunch of pirates? You fools kill each
other off, and who brings the ship into port, eh? How long do you
think you'd go on livin', if we go short-handed and damage this can on
landin'? Huddersfield would kill you off like flies for that. Now calm
down and let's get this thing settled."

They stood meekly enough after that, while Gilligan looked the cargo
over and assigned this portion to this fellow, that portion to that. He
had apportioned a large part of the spoils to them when he came to a
dozen or so large corrugated boxes. He read one of the labels and broke
out into laughter.

"Look at this, you lugs," he chuckled. "Who's going to get this for his
share?"

The others looked and grins began to spread over their faces. The
labels said: "_Dentogleme Tooth Powd. 1/2 Gr. 4 oz._" The grins became
laughs, and a dozen eyes turned to Manool. The little farmer felt
his face begin to redden; it dawned on him that his habit of dental
fastidiousness was not unknown to the crew. Gilligan's next remark made
it obvious that this was the truth.

"Manool," he said. "This stuff was probably goin' to Mars to polish the
teeth of them shark-jawed natives. But it would have been wasted there,
Manool, wasted. But now, Manool, it shall be awarded to you, who'll
value it, in appreciation of all you done for us, durin' the mutiny."

His eyes hardened for a moment as if in anticipation of a complaint;
then, seeing nothing in Manool's eyes but plaintive acquiescence, he
went on: "Take it, Manool, and get out o' here. Take it down to the
farm and gloat over it, farmer. There's enough there to last even you
for twenty years."

The crew looked at him, looked at the dazed Manool, and burst into
spasms of laughter. They poked jibes at him, made obscene puns at his
expense, and Manool stood there, taking it all in and getting redder
and redder.

He wished futilely that he had had time to do something before the
mutiny. He wished that it wasn't too late to do something, now. Then
he realized that there was something for him to do now. Gilligan was
ordering him again, in no uncertain terms, to get that tooth-powder
down to his tank-room. He smiled weakly at the ring-leader and picked
up one box.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the next half hour he was busy carrying his "fortune" down to his
quarters. And it is doubtful if, in all his life, Manool Sarouk had
ever been so miserable. He upbraided himself at every step for his
cowardice and vacillation. He racked his brain, striving to devise
some brilliant plan to circumvent the mutineers; and even as he did
so, another part of his mind was scoffing at the futility of daring to
oppose that group of ruffians. By the time he came back for the last
box, he had admitted the absurdity of even trying it.

They had emptied the gin bottles by that time. Some of them were
singing, and some were shooting craps, gambling with their share of the
cargo. Gilligan and a couple of others were gathered around Doc Slade.
They had removed his bonds and had evidently been talking to him.

"You'll take a chance with us or you'll take a chance with them two
in the officer's mess," Gilligan was saying, menacingly, as Manool
entered. It was evident that he had shared in the gin since Manool had
started his work. He was looking ugly and seemed to be feeling the same
way.

Doc Slade's lip was curling with contempt before Gilligan had finished
his sentence. "There's no choice," the doctor spat. "You give me
passage to the mess-room and I'll go, right now. What have I got in
common with a pack of space-rats like these? I don't like the smell of
you, even."

"Okeh!" Gilligan snarled, with an air of finality that showed that he
was ending what had been an attempt to persuade Slade to join them.
"I'll give you passage. Git out o' here and git down to the dinin'
room."

He flung the door open and gestured out into the passageway. Doc Slade
looked at him, with a look in his eyes that Manool couldn't fathom.
"Git!" repeated Gilligan, and drew his weapon. "Git out o' here before
I forget myself and let you have a dose o' this."

Doc hesitated the briefest second, then he shrugged and stepped out of
the door. He started down the passageway swiftly, and Manool noticed
that he neither slackened his pace nor looked backward. He was some
sixty feet away when Gilligan muttered to the two or three who had
crowded to the door, "All right. Let him have it!"

And to Manool's horror, a half dozen shots cracked and echoed in the
narrow confines of the hall. Doc staggered, put out a hand to the
bulkhead, coughed and slumped to the floor. Gilligan ran forward and
put another bullet in him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Manool didn't even wait until Gilligan came back into the room. He
grabbed up his last box mechanically and ran to the steps. His mind was
a chaos of horror; he was choking, his eyes were filling with tears and
he was aware of only one thought--to get to the steps before a bullet
smacked into _his_ back, too.

He stumbled down the steps and along the corridor, sobbing as he went.
They had killed Doc Slade. Killed him in cold blood. They'd kill the
other officers, too, if they got the chance. There was no good in them,
there was no hope in trying to placate them and appeal to their good
nature. At any moment, they'd be likely to take a notion to kill him,
too; just for the fun of the thing! He hardly knew what he was doing by
the time he entered the tank-room and dropped the box of tooth-powder
onto the others and then slammed the door shut and locked it.

For a while he was a little hysterical. He sobbed; he walked the
floor; he beat his temples with his fists, and wondered if he could
kill himself. He could see before him, with awful clarity, the form of
Doc Slade, lying as he had lain in the passageway, with a gradually
spreading pool of blood beneath his head.

He covered his face with his hands and wept anew. He kicked savagely at
the boxes that were the price of his neutrality in this little war. He
felt that he was the lowest, the most despicable coward in history. He
wrung his hands and wept again. And at last, in time, his eyes dried
and he took a deep breath.

There was a new look in his eyes. The thought had come to him suddenly,
that he held the lives of these madmen in his own hand. Of course, he
did! He had been worrying so much about the safety of his own paltry
life that this thought had been entirely overlooked. He was the farmer
on this ship! What was he weeping and wailing for, when every one of
them depended for their air on his continued attention to the tanks?

Why, they were a good twenty million miles from the nearest space-port.
If he wanted to die, if he was willing to give his life, he could
destroy those tanks of vegetation, and not a man on this rocket would
live to land on a planet again.

He stood up and threw out his chest. He inhaled deeply--and smothered
an involuntary sob. He went to the wash-bowl and washed his face and
eyes and combed his lank, black hair. He absently reached for his
tooth-brush, then he shuddered. But habit was too great; in spite of
the feeling of revulsion that the very thought of tooth-powder brought
to him, he wound up by carefully brushing his teeth. Then he felt
better.

He started to turn away from the wash-bowl and suddenly stopped. He
turned back quickly and seized the can of tooth-powder standing there.
He picked it up, poured some of the powder into his hand and let a drop
or two of water fall on it. A sinister grin began to spread over his
face--if he handled this thing right, the joke they had made in giving
him the tooth-powder was going to back-fire with a vengeance.

He sat down and began to think.

He sat there for almost half an hour. Once he got up and went over and
examined the openings to the ventilator pipes. He removed the screen
from one of them, a pipe about two feet in diameter, and looked into
the blackness of the pipe's interior. What he saw evidently satisfied
him, for he smiled again and went back to resume his pensive pose.

At last, he rose and with the grim smile playing on his face he went
to work. He climbed up into the ventilator pipe he had examined, and
started to worm his way into its dark maw. His legs kicked futilely for
a moment, then he was hunching his way along through the tube.

He worked his way along for a dozen yards or so, then he came to a
place where the tube divided in two. He unhesitatingly chose the path
to the right--he knew these tubes well enough to traverse them with
his eyes shut, even though he had never seen them from the inside
before. After a few yards of further crawling, he saw a light ahead and
increased his speed. Before long, he was lying in front of a grating
and looking out into the officer's mess-room.

He could see Tarrant and Rogers. They were seated disconsolately at the
table, speaking little, apparently, for Manool watched them for five
minutes before he tried to attract their attention, and in all that
time, Tarrant only spoke once. When Manool tapped on the grating, they
looked up startled, and reached for their weapons. Rogers was unable
to locate the rapping and swung about a little wildly until Tarrant
pointed out the ventilator opening. Then he recognized Manool before
Tarrant did.

"It's the farmer," he exclaimed, in surprise. "What are you doing up
there, Sarouk?"

Manool beckoned them over to the ventilator.

"Don't talk too loud," he cautioned in a hoarse whisper. "I can't say
much. Somebody is guarding outside the door, maybe they hear me. They
kill Doc Slade and the chemist. I got a scheme. You take this grating
off, while I go back to the farm and get something."

       *       *       *       *       *

He backed away without waiting for an answer and made his way slowly
back to the farm. He picked up one of his boxes of tooth-powder and
hoisted it up to the ventilator shaft, shoving it back as far as he
could. Then he climbed in after it and began his journey back to the
mess-room, pushing the box ahead of him. It was slow work, but he made
it at last, and called softly to Tarrant to come and get the box.

"What's this all about, Manool?" demanded the captain, but Manool
refused to answer.

"Can't talk too much, Captain," he whispered. "Got to hurry. If someone
tries to come in farm before I get these boxes over here, this whole
plan be shot. Don't you talk now, please."

Tarrant nodded his understanding and Manool started back for another
box of tooth-powder. As he hunched his way along, he heard Tarrant say
to Rogers, quite plainly: "Think he knows what he's doing, Ike?"

He smiled bitterly. It seemed impossible for anyone to expect anything
important could be accomplished by little Manool Sarouk. Well, if
things went right, he was certainly going to show them, this time.

In spite of his haste, and in spite of the fact that Rogers helped him
after the third trip, it was some little time before Manool dropped
down in the tank-room after that last box. He heaved a huge sigh of
relief as he put it into the ventilator shaft, and turned to do the one
thing left to do. This was the one job he hated, but it was the most
important job of all. He went to his locker and got out a big bottle
and poured liquid from it into every one of the tanks. He turned off a
valve under each tank and took a hammer and beat the valve-handle into
uselessness. Then, after checking to make sure he hadn't overlooked
anything, he climbed into the tube and started pushing that last box of
tooth-powder ahead of him.

At last he reached the mess-room again and handed down his box. He
climbed down, himself, and had no more than landed when Tarrant was on
him with a whispered, "Come on now, Manool, tell us what this is all
about."

"Just a couple minutes more, Captain," Manool pleaded. "You think they
can get through that door?"

"Not a chance," Rogers spoke up.

"That's fine. Maybe, then, you help me fix that ventilator, too." They
put the grill back on the ventilator, and covered it by nailing boards
from the table over it.

"By-'n'by, we make that air-tight," said Manool, and gave his next
order. Yes, he was giving orders to the captain and the navigator now,
and he was quite conscious that he was doing so.

"You get all the bowls and pans and pots in here and fill 'em with
water. No telling when those fellows decide to cut our water lines."

It took them half an hour to do that, and it wasn't until it was done
that Manool felt satisfied. Then he began to break open one of the
cartons of tooth-powder, explaining his plans as he did so, in the same
whisper he had used all along.

"Those fellows out there got the whole ship to themselves," he said.
"They got lots of food and lots of water and lots of air. They got
fuel, too, and somebody who can lay an orbit for contact with Ceres.
But I don't think they ever get there.

"There's a whole lot of fellows, too," said Manool, dubiously. "I think
maybe the air they got won't last 'em."

"Their _air_!" ejaculated Tarrant. "Manool, you haven't monkeyed with
the tanks, have you?"

"I just kill the water-weed, that's all."

"Are you nuts, little man?" asked Tarrant at last. "How in thunder are
_we_ going to breathe, when this air gets stale. You may smother those
pirates, but we're all in the same boat here, you know."

Manool smacked his fist into his hand to emphasize his remark.

"We may be in same boat, but we three, we're in different part of this
boat. Maybe them rats outside quit breathing, all right, but not us!
Look here."

He seized them both by the shoulder and hauled them across the room. He
broke open one of the corrugated boxes as they watched, and pulled out
a gaily colored can. He opened the can and dumped the contents into a
pan of water, while they looked on.

He stirred the paste in the bottom of the pan for a moment and then let
out a cry of triumph.

"Aha! See there! What you think of that, by gum!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A series of bubbles was rising from the paste, rising and breaking,
bringing fragments of the tooth-powder with them, giving the water a
cloudy and dusty quality as they grew and joined each other, faster and
faster. Manool winked.

"Maybe Manool isn't as big fool as these hoodlums think," he said
proudly. "I don't know much, maybe. But, by gum, I know my business. I
know about tooth-powders and I know about providing oxygen for rocket
ships.

"You know what, Captain. Most tooth-powders got sodium perborate in
'em. They put it in because that perborate give off pure oxygen when
you put it in water, and pure oxygen is pretty good antiseptic. Only
this time, we're going to use that oxygen to keep us alive instead of
killing germs."

He leaned over and took a sniff of the life-giving gas.

"In a day or two," he said, happily, "the air out in the rest of the
rocket is going to get pretty stale. Then they try to get in here.
We hold 'em out all right, then afterwhile they come, offering to
surrender, begging for a breath of fresh air. Ain't it nice to think
that there's only enough for the three of us? If we get soft and let
'em breathe any of our air, nobody will reach port alive. So we have to
be hard and let that mob of cut-throats smother to death."

He sat down and leaned back and smiled. Manool Sarouk felt pretty good.
He felt satisfied with himself for the first time in a long while.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Mutiny in the Void, by Charles R. Tanner

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MUTINY IN THE VOID ***

***** This file should be named 62350.txt or 62350.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/3/5/62350/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
