The Project Gutenberg EBook of Mr. Meek--Musketeer, by Clifford D. Simak

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: Mr. Meek--Musketeer

Author: Clifford D. Simak

Release Date: August 26, 2020 [EBook #63046]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MR. MEEK--MUSKETEER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          Mr. Meek--Musketeer

                         By CLIFFORD D. SIMAK

            Adventure flamed in Mr. Meek's timorous heart,
            the surge of battle and singing blades. And so,
            with a rocket-ship for his steed and a ray-gun
             for his sword, he sallied forth ... carrying
           cavalier justice to the resentful shining stars.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1944.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Now that he'd done it, Oliver Meek found the thing he'd done hard to
explain.

Under the calm, inquiring eyes of Mr. Richard Belmont, president of
Lunar Exports, Inc., he stammered a little before he could get started.

"For years," he finally said, "I've been planning a trip...."

"But, Oliver," said Belmont, "we would give you a leave of absence.
You'll be back. There's no reason to resign."

Oliver Meek shuffled his feet and looked uncomfortable, a little guilty.

"Maybe I won't be back," he declared. "You see, it isn't just an
ordinary trip. It may take a long, long time. Something might happen.
I'm going out to see the Solar System."

Belmont laughed lightly, reared back in his chair, matching fingertips.
"Oh, yes. One of the tours. Nothing dangerous about them. Nothing at
all. You needn't worry about that. I went on one a couple of years
ago. Mighty interesting...."

"Not one of the tours," interrupted Meek. "Not for me. I have a ship of
my own."

Belmont thumped forward in his chair, looking almost startled.

"A ship of your own!"

"Yes, sir," Oliver admitted, squirming uncomfortably. "Over thirty
years I've saved for it ... for it and the other things I'll need. It
sort of got to be ... well, an obsession, you might say."

"I see," said Belmont. "You planned it."

"Yes, sir, I planned it."

Which was a masterpiece of understatement.

For Belmont could not know and Oliver Meek, stoop-shouldered,
white-haired bookkeeper, could not tell of those thirty years of thrift
and dreams. Thirty years of watching ships of the void taking off from
the space port, just outside the window where he sat hunched over
ledgers and calculators. Thirty years of catching scraps of talk from
the men who ran those ships. Men and ships with the alien dust of far
off planets still clinging to their skins. Ships with strange marks and
scars upon them, and men with strange words upon their tongues.

Thirty years of reducing high adventure to cold figures. Thirty years
of recording strange cargoes and stranger tales into accounts. Thirty
years of watching through a window while rockets, outbound, dug molten
pits into the field. Thirty years of being on the edge, the very fringe
of life ... but _never_ in it.

Nor could Belmont have guessed or Meek formed in words the romanticism
that glowed within the middle-aged bookkeeper's heart ... a thing that
sometimes hurt ... something earthbound that forever cried for space.

Nor the night classes Oliver Meek had attended to learn the theory of
space navigation and after that more classes to gain an understanding
of the motors and controls that drove the ships between the planets.

Nor how he had stood before the mirror in his room hour after hour,
practicing, perfecting the art of pistol handling. Nor of the
afternoons he had spent at the shooting gallery.

Nor of the nights he had read avidly, soaking up the lore and
information and color of those other worlds that seemed to beckon him.

"How old are you, Oliver?" asked Belmont.

"Fifty next month, sir," Meek answered.

"I wish you were taking one of the passenger ships," said Belmont.
"Now, one of those tours aren't so bad. They're comfortable and ..."

Meek shook his head and there was a stubborn glint in the weak blue
eyes behind the thick lensed glasses.

"No tour for me, sir. I'm going to some of those places the tours never
take you. I've missed a lot in these thirty years. I've waited a long
time and now I'm going out and see the things I've dreamed about."

       *       *       *       *       *

Oliver Meek pushed open the swinging doors of the Silver Moon and
stepped timidly inside. Just through the door he stopped and stared,
for the place hit him squarely in the face ... the acrid smoke of
Venusian leaf, the high-pitched laughter of the Martian dancing girls,
the soft whirr of wheels, the click of balls as they bounced around
the spinning wheels, the clatter of poker chips, the odor of strange
liquors, the chirping and growling of a dozen tongues, the strange,
exotic music of Ganymede.

Meek blinked through his heavy lenses, moved forward cautiously.

In the far corner of the place stood a table occupied by one man ... an
old, grizzled veteran of the Asteroids with his muzzle in a flagon of
cheap beer.

Meek sidled toward the table, drew out a chair.

"Do you mind if I sit here?" he asked and Old Stiffy Grant choked on a
mouthful of beer in his amazement.

"Go ahead, stranger," he finally croaked. "I don't give a dang. I don't
own the joint."

Meek sat down on the edge of the chair. His eyes swept the room. He
smelled the smoke, the raw liquor, the sweat-stained clothing of the
men, the cheap perfumery of the dancing girls.

He shifted his gun belt so the two energy pistols hung more easily, and
cautiously slid farther back upon the chair.

So this was Asteroid City on Juno. The place he'd read about. The place
the pulp paper writers used as background for their more lurid tales.
This was the place where guns flamed and men were found dead in the
streets and a girl or a game of chance or just one spoken word could
start a fight.

The tours didn't include places such as this. They took one to the
nice, civilized places ... towns like Gusta Pahn on Mars and Radium
City on Venus and out to Satellite City on Ganymede. Civilized,
polished places ... places hardly different than New York or Chicago
or Denver back home. But this was different ... here one could sense
something that made the blood run faster, made a thrill scamper up
one's spine.

"You're new here, ain't you?" asked Stiffy.

Meek jumped, then recovered his composure.

"Yes," he said. "Yes, I am. I always wanted to see this place. I read
about it."

"Ever read about an Asteroid Prowler?" asked Stiffy.

"I believe I have somewhere. In a magazine section. A crazy story...."

"It ain't crazy," protested Stiffy. "I saw one of them ... this
afternoon. Right here on Juno. None of these dad-blamed fools will
believe me."

Furtively, Meek studied the man opposite him. He didn't seem to be such
a bad fellow. Almost like any other human being. A little rough, maybe,
but a good fellow just the same.

"Say," he suggested impulsively, "maybe you'd have a drink with me."

"You're dang tootin'," agreed Stiffy. "I never turn down no drinks."

"You order it," said Meek.

Stiffy bawled across the room. "Hey, Joe, bring us a couple snorts."

"What kind of an animal was this you were speaking of?" asked Meek.

"Asteroid Prowler," said Stiffy. "Most of these hoodlums don't think
there is one, but I know different. I saw him this afternoon and he
was the dad-blamest thing I ever laid my eyes on. He boiled right out
from behind a big rock and started coming after me. I let him have one
in the face but that didn't even nick him. Full-power, too. When that
happened I didn't waste no more time. I took it on the lam. Got to my
ship and got out of there."

"What did he look like?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Stiffy leaned across the table and wagged a forefinger solemnly.
"Mister, you won't believe me when I tell you. But it's the truth,
so help me. He had a beak. And eyes. Danged if them eyes weren't
something. Like they were reaching out and trying to grab you. Not
really reaching out, you know. But there was something in them that
tried to talk to you. Big as plates and they shimmered like there was
fire inside of them.

"These dod-rotted rock-blasters here laughed at me when I told them
about it. Insinuated I held the truth lightly, they did. Laughed their
fool heads off.

"It's pretty near as big as a house ... that animal, and it's got a
body like a barrel. It's got a long neck and a little head with big
teeth. It's got a tail, too, and it's kind of set close to the ground.
You see, I was out looking for the Lost Mine."

"Lost Mine?"

"Sure, ain't you ever heard of the Lost Mine?"

Stiffy blew beer in amazement.

Oliver Meek shook his head, feeling that probably he was the victim of
tales reserved for the greenest of the tenderfeet, not knowing what he
could do about it if he were.

Stiffy settled more solidly in his chair.

"The Lost Mine story," he declared, "has been going around for years.
Seems a couple of fellows found it a few years after the first dome was
built. They came in and told about it, stocked up with grub and went
out. They never did come back."

He leaned across the table.

"You know what I think?" he demanded gustily.

"No," said Meek. "What do you think?"

"The Prowler got 'em," Stiffy said, triumphantly.

"But how could there be a lost mine?" asked Meek. "Asteroid City was
one of the first mining domes built out here. There was no prospecting
done until about that time."

Stiffy shook his head, waggling his beard.

"How should I know," he defended himself. "Maybe some early space
traveler set down here, dug a mine, never got back to Earth to tell
about it."

"But Juno is only one hundred and eighteen miles in diameter," Meek
argued. "If there had been a mine someone would have found it."

Stiffy snorted. "That's all you know about it, stranger. Only one
hundred and eighteen miles, sure ... but one hundred and eighteen miles
of the worst danged country man ever set a boot on. Mostly up and down."

The drinks came, the bartender slapping them down on the table before
them. Meek gasped first at their price, then choked on the drink
itself. But he smothered the choke manfully and asked:

"What kind of stuff is this?"

"_Bocca_," replied Stiffy. "Good old Martian _bocca_. Puts hair on your
chest."

He gulped his drink with gusto, blew noisily through his whiskers, eyed
Meek disapprovingly.

"Don't you like it?" he demanded.

"Sure," lied Meek. "Sure I like it."

He shut his eyes and poured the liquor into his mouth, gulped fiercely,
desperately, almost strangling.

Said Stiffy: "Tell you what let's do. Let's get into a game."

Meek opened his mouth to accept the invitation, then closed it, caution
stealing over him. After all, he didn't know much about this place.
Maybe he'd better go a little easy, at least at first.

He shook his head. "No, I'm not very good at cards. Just a few games of
penny-ante now and then."

Stiffy looked his disbelief. "Penny ante," he said, then guffawed as if
he sensed humor in what Meek had said. "Say, you're good," he roared.
"Don't s'pose you can use them lightnin' throwers of yours either."

"Some," admitted Meek. "Practiced in front of a looking glass a little."

He wondered why Stiffy rolled in his chair with mirth until tears ran
down into his whiskers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stiffy held a full house ... aces with kings ... and his eyes had the
look of a cat stalking a saucer full of cream.

There were only two in the game, Stiffy and an oily gentleman called
Luke. As the stakes mounted and the game grew hotter the others at the
table dropped out.

Standing behind Stiffy, Oliver Meek watched in awe, scarcely breathing.

Here was life ... the kind of life one would never dream of back in
the little cubby hole with its calculators and dusty books at Lunar
Exports, Inc.

In the space of an hour, he had seen more money pass across the
table than he had ever owned in all his life. Pots that climbed and
pyramided, fortunes gambled on the flip of a single card.

But there was something else too ... something wrong about the dealing.
He couldn't figure quite what it was, but he had read an article about
how gamblers dealt the cards when they didn't aim to give the other
fellow quite an even break. And there had been something about Luke's
dealing ... something that he had read about in that article.

Across the table Luke grimaced.

"I'll have to call you," he announced. "I'm afraid you're too strong
for me."

Stiffy slapped down his hand triumphantly.

"Match that, dang you!" he exulted. "The kind of cards I been waiting
for all night."

He reached out a gnarled hand to rake in the coins but Luke stopped him
with a gesture.

"Sorry," he said.

He flipped the cards down slowly, one at a time. First a trey, then a
four and then three more fours.

Stiffy gulped, reached for the bottle.

But even as he did, Oliver Meek reached out and placed his hand upon
the money on the table, fingers wide spread. He'd remembered what he
had read in that article....

"Just a minute, gentlemen," he said. "I've remembered something...."

Silence thudded in the room.

Meek looked across the table straight into the eyes of Luke.

Luke said: "You better explain yourself, mister."

Meek suddenly was flustered. "Why, maybe I acted too hastily. It really
was nothing. I just noticed something about the deal...."

Luke jerked erect, kicking his chair away with the single motion of
rising. The crowd suddenly surged away, out of the line of fire. The
bartender ducked behind the bar. Stiffy flung himself with a howl out
of his chair, skidded along the floor.

Meek, suddenly straightening from the table, saw Luke's hand streaking
for the gun at his belt and in a split second he realized that here he
faced a situation that demanded action.

He didn't think about those days of practice in front of the mirror. He
didn't call upon a single iota of the gun-lore he had read in hundreds
of books. His mind, for a bare instant, was almost a blank, but he
acted as if by instinct.

His hands moved like driving pistons, snapped the twin guns from their
holsters, heaved them clear of leather, grabbed them in mid-air.

He saw Luke's gun muzzle swinging up, tilted down the muzzle of his own
left gun, pressed the activator. There was a screeching hiss, a streak
of blue that crackled in the air and the gun that Luke held in his hand
was suddenly red hot.

But Meek wasn't watching Luke. His eyes were for the crowd and even as
he pressed the firing button he saw a hand pick a bottle off the bar,
lift it to throw. The gun in his right hand shrieked and the bottle
smashed into a million pieces, the liquor turned to steam.

Slowly Meek backed away, his tread almost cat-like, his weak blue eyes
like cold ice behind the thick-lensed spectacles, his hunched shoulders
still hunched, his lean jaw like a steel trap.

He felt the wall at his back and stopped.

Out in the room before him no one stirred. Luke stood like a statue,
gripping his right hand, badly burned by the smoking gun that lay at
his feet. Luke's face was a mask of hatred.

The rest of them simply stared. Stared at this outlander. A man who
wore clothing such as the Asteroid Belt had never seen before. A man
who looked as if he might be a clerk or even a retired farmer out on a
holiday. A man with glasses and hunched shoulders and a skin that had
never known the touch of sun in space.

And yet a man who had given Luke Blaine a head start for his gun, had
beaten him to the draw, had burned the gun out of his hand.

Oliver Meek heard himself speaking, but he couldn't believe it was
himself. It was as if some other person had taken command of his
tongue, was forcing it to speak. He hardly recognized his voice, for it
was hard and brittle and sounded far away.

It was saying: "Does anyone else want to argue with me?"

It was immediately apparent no one did.


                                  II

Oliver Meek tried to explain it carefully, but it was hard when people
were so insistent. Hard, too, to collect his thoughts so early in the
day.

He sat on the edge of the bed, white hair tousled, his night shirt
wrinkled, his bony legs sticking out beneath it.

"But I'm not a gun fighter," he declared. "I'm just on a holiday. I
never shot at a man before in all my life. I can't imagine what came
over me."

The Rev. Harold Brown brushed his argument aside.

"Don't you see, sir," he insisted, "what you can do for us? These
hoodlums will respect you. You can clean up the town for us. Blacky
Hoffman and his mob run the place. They make decent government and
decent living impossible. They levy protection tribute on every
businessman, they rob and cheat the miners and prospectors who come
here, they maintain vice conditions...."

"All you have to do," said Andrew Smith brightly, "is run Blacky and
his gang out of town."

"But," protested Meek, "you don't understand."

"Five years ago," the Rev. Brown went on, disregarding him, "I would
have hesitated to pit force against force. It is not my way nor the way
of the church ... but for five years I've tried to bring the gospel to
this place, have worked for better conditions and each year I see them
steadily getting worse."

"This could be a swell place," enthused Smith, "if we could get rid of
the undesirables. Fine opportunities. Capital would come in. Decent
people could settle. We could have some civic improvements. Maybe a
Rotary club."

Meek wiggled his toes despairingly.

"You would earn the eternal gratitude of Asteroid City," urged the Rev.
Brown. "We've tried it before but it never worked."

"They always killed our man," Smith explained, "or he got scared, or
they bought him off."

"We never had a man like you before," the Rev. Brown declared. "Luke
Blaine is a notorious gunman. No one, ever before, has been able to
beat him to...."

"There must be some mistake," insisted Meek. "I'm just a bookkeeper. I
don't know a thing...."

"We'd swear you in as marshal," said Smith. "The office is vacant now.
Has been for three months or more. We can't find anyone to take it."

"But I'm not staying long," protested Meek. "I'm leaving pretty soon. I
just want to try to get a look at the Asteroid Prowler and scout around
to see if I can't find some old rocks I read about once."

The two visitors stared open mouthed at him. Meek brightened. "You've
heard about those old rocks, maybe. Some funny inscriptions on them.
Fellow who found them thought they had been made recently, probably
just before Earthmen first came here. But no one can read them. Maybe
some other race ... from somewhere far away."

"But it won't take you long," pleaded Smith. "We got warrants for all
of them. All you got to do is serve them."

"Look," said Meek in desperation, "you have got me wrong. It must have
been an accident, shooting that gun out of Mr. Blaine's hand."

Meek felt dull anger stirring within him. What right did these people
have of insisting that he help them with their troubles? What did they
think he was? A desperado or space runner? Another gangster? Just
because he'd been lucky at the Silver Moon.

"By gosh," he declared flatly, "I just won't do it!"

They looked pained, rose reluctantly.

"I suppose we shouldn't have expected that you would," said the
Reverend Brown bitingly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Silver Moon was quiet. The bartender was languidly wiping the top
of the bar. A Venusian boy was as languidly sweeping out. The dancing
girls were gone, the music was silent.

Stiffy and Oliver Meek were among the few customers.

Stiffy gulped a drink and blew fiercely through his whiskers.

"Oliver," he said, "you sure are a ring-tailed bearcat with them guns
of yours. I wonder, would you tell me how you do it?"

"Look here, Mr. Grant," said Meek. "I wish you'd quit talking about
what I did. It was just an accident, anyhow. What I'm mainly interested
in is this Asteroid Prowler you were telling me about. Is there any
chance I might find him if I went out and looked?"

Stiffy choked, almost purple with astonishment.

"Good gravy," he said, "now you want to go out and tangle with the
Prowler!"

"Not tangle with him," Meek declared. "Just look at him."

"Mister," Stiffy warned, "the best way to look at that thing is with a
telescope. A good, powerful telescope."

The swinging doors swung open and a man walked in.

The newcomer walked directly toward the table occupied by Stiffy and
Meek. He halted beside it, black beard jutting fearsomely, eyes bleakly
cold.

"I'm Blacky Hoffman," he said. "I suppose you're Meek." He disregarded
Stiffy.

Meek stood up and held out his hand.

"Glad to know you, Mr. Hoffman," he said.

Blacky took the proffered hand in some surprise.

"Seems I should know you, Meek, but I don't. Should have heard of you
at some time or other. A man like you would get talked about."

Meek shook his head. "I don't think you ever have. I never did anything
to get talked about."

"Sit down," said Hoffman and it sounded like a command.

"I got to be going," Stiffy piped, already halfway to the door.

Hoffman poured out a drink and shoved the bottle at Meek. Meek gritted
his teeth and poured a short one.

"No use beating around the bush," said Blacky. "We may as well get down
to cases. I guess we understand one another."

Oliver Meek didn't know what the other meant, but he had to say
something.

"I guess we do," he agreed.

"All right, then," said Hoffman. "I've built up a sweet little racket
here and I don't like fellows butting in."

Meek essayed to down his liquor, succeeded, gasped for breath.

"But I could use a man like you," said Hoffman. "Luke tells me you are
handy with the blasters."

"I practice sometimes," Meek admitted.

A smile twitched Hoffman's bearded lips. "We have the town just where
we want it. The officials can't do a thing. Scared to. Marshals always
eat rock or skip town. Maybe you would like to throw in with us. Not
much to do, easy pickings."

"I'm sorry," said Meek, "but I can't do that."

"Listen, Meek," warned Hoffman, "you're either with us or you aren't.
We don't like chiselers here. We know what to do with guys who try to
muscle in. I don't know who you are or where you come from, but I'm
telling you this ... straight. If you don't come in, all right ... but
if you stick around after tonight I can't promise you protection."

Meek was silent, mulling the threat.

"You mean," he finally asked, "that you're ordering me out if I don't
join your gang?"

Hoffman nodded. "That, big boy, is just exactly what I mean."

Slow anger and resentment ate at Meek. Who was this Hoffman to order
him out of Asteroid City? This was a free Solar System, wasn't it? No
wonder the Rev. Brown was jittery. No wonder the decent people wanted a
clean-up.

Meek's anger mounted, a cold deadly anger that shook him like a frigid
hand. An anger that almost frightened him, for very seldom in his life
had he been really angry.

He rose slowly from the table, hitched his gun belt to a comfortable
position.

"The town's been without a marshal for a long time, hasn't it?" he
asked.

Hoffman's laugh boomed out. "You bet it has. And it's going to stay
that way. The last one took it on the lam. The one before that got
killed. The one before that sort of disappeared...."

Meek spoke slowly, weak eyes burning.

"Horrible condition," he said. "Something's got to be done about it."

       *       *       *       *       *

The streets were deserted, quiet, a deadly quiet that lurked and
hovered, waiting for something to happen.

Oliver Meek polished his marshal's star with his coat sleeve, glanced
up at the dome. Stars glittered, their light distorted by the heavy
quartz. Stars in a dead black sky.

Bathed in the weak starlight, the mighty walls of the canyon reared
above the dome. A canyon, the only sort of place where a city could
rise on one of the planetoids. For the walls protected the dome against
the deadly barrage of whizzing debris that continually shrieked down
from space. Those mighty cragged mountains and dizzy cliffs were pocked
with the blows dealt, through long eons, by that hail of armor-piercing
projectiles.

Meek returned his gaze to the street, saw the lights of the Silver
Moon. Nervously he felt of the papers in his inside pocket. Warrants
for the arrest of John Hoffman for murder, Luke Blaine for murder, Jim
Smithers for reckless shooting, Jake Loomis for assault and battery,
Robert Blake for robbery.

And suddenly, Oliver Meek was afraid. For death waited him, he knew,
inside the swinging doors of the Silver Moon. A death preluded by this
quiet street.

Almost as if he were awaking from a dream, he found questions filling
his brain. What was he doing here? Why had he gotten himself into a jam
like this? What difference did it make to him what happened to Asteroid
City?

It had been anger that had made him do it ... that unaccountable anger
which had flared when Hoffman told him to get out.

After all, what difference would a few days make? He was going to leave
anyhow. He'd seen about all there was to see in Asteroid City. He
wanted to see the Prowler and the stones with the strange inscriptions
on them, but they were sights he could get along without.

If he turned around and walked the other way he could reach his space
ship in just a few minutes. There was fuel enough to take him to
Ganymede. No one would know until he was already gone. And after he was
gone, what would he care what anybody thought?

He stood irresolutely, arguing with himself. Then he shook his head,
resumed his march toward the Silver Moon.

A figure stepped from a dark doorway. Meek saw the threatening gleam of
steel. His hands streaked toward his gun-butts, but something prodded
him in the back and he froze, fingers touching metal.

"All right, marshal," said a mocking voice. "You just turn around and
walk the other way."

He felt his guns lifted from their holsters and he turned around and
walked. Footsteps crunched beside him and behind him, but otherwise he
walked in silence.

"Where are you taking me?" he asked, his voice just a trifle shaky.

One of the men laughed.

"Just on a little trip, marshal. Out to take a look at Juno. It's a
right pretty sight at night."

       *       *       *       *       *

Juno wasn't pretty. For the most part, there was little of it one could
see. The stars shed little light and the depressions were in shadow,
while the cragged mountain tops seemed like shimmering mirages in the
ghostly starlight.

The ship lay on a plateau between a needle-like range and a deep,
shadowed valley.

"Now, marshal," said one of the men, "you stay right here. You'll see
the Sun come up over that mountain back there. Interesting. Dawn on
Juno is something to remember."

Meek started forward, but the other waved him back with his pistol.

"You're leaving me here?" shrieked Meek.

"Why sure," the man said. "You wanted to see the Solar System, didn't
you?"

They backed away from him, guns in hand. Frozen in terror, he watched
them enter the ship, saw the port close. An instant later the ship
roared away, the backwash of its tubes buffeting Meek to the ground.

He struggled to his feet, watching the blasting tubes until they were
out of sight. Clumsily he stepped forward and then stopped. There was
no place to go ... nothing to do.

Loneliness and fear swept over him in terrible waves of anguish. Fear
that dwarfed any emotion he had ever felt. Fear of the ghostly shimmer
of the peaks, fear of the shadow-blackened valley, fear of space and
the mad, cold intensity of unwinking stars.

He fought for a grip on himself. It was fear such as this that
drove men mad in space. He'd read about that, heard about it. Fear
of the loneliness and the terrible depths of space ... fear of the
indifference of endless miles of void, fear of the unknown that always
lurked just at elbow distance.

"Meek," he told himself, "you should have stayed at home."

Dawn came shortly, but no such dawn as one would see on Earth. Just a
gradual dimming of the stars, a gradual lifting of the blacker darkness
as a larger star, the Sun, swung above the peaks.

The stars still shone, but a gray light filtered over the landscape,
made the mountains solid things instead of ghostly shapes.

Jagged peaks loomed on one side of the plateau, fearsome depths on the
other. A meteor thudded somewhere to his right and Meek shuddered.
There was no sound of the impact but he could feel the vibrations of
the blow as the whizzing mass struck the cliffs.

But it was foolish to be afraid of meteors, he told himself. He had
greater and more immediate worries.

There were less than eight hours of air left in the tanks of his space
suit. He had no idea where he was, although he knew that many miles of
rugged, fearsome country stretched between him and Asteroid City.

The space suit carried no food and no water, but that was of minor
moment, he realized, for his air would give out long before he felt the
pangs of thirst or hunger.

He sat down on a massive boulder and tried to think. There wasn't much
to think about. Everywhere his thoughts met black walls. The situation,
he told himself, was hopeless.

If only he hadn't come to Asteroid City in the first place! Or
having come, if he had only minded his business, this never would
have happened. If he hadn't been so anxious to show off what he knew
about card dealing tricks. If only he hadn't agreed to be sworn in as
marshal. If he'd swallowed his pride and left when Hoffman told him to.

He brushed away such thoughts as futile, took stock of his surroundings.

The cliff on the right hand side was undercut, overhanging several
hundred feet of level ground.

Ponderously, he heaved himself off the boulder, wandered aimlessly up
the wider tongue of plateau. The undercut, he saw, grew deeper, forming
a deep cleft, as if someone had furrowed out the mountain side. Heavy
shadows clung within it.

Suddenly he stopped, riveted to the ground, scarcely daring to breathe.

Something was moving in the deep shadow of the undercut. Something that
seemed to glint faintly with reflected light.

The thing lurched forward and, in the fleeting instant before he turned
and ran, Oliver Meek had an impression of a barrel-like body, a long
neck, a cruel mouth, monstrous eyes that glowed with hidden fires.

There was no speculation in Oliver Meek's mind. From the description
given him by Stiffy, from the very terror of the thing, he knew the
being shambling toward him was the Asteroid Prowler.

With a shriek of pure fear, Meek turned and fled and behind him came
the Prowler, its head swaying on the end of its whip-like neck.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meek's legs worked like pistons, his breath gasping in his throat, his
body soaring through space as he covered long distances at each leap
under the influence of lesser gravity.

Thunderous blasts hammered at the earphones in his helmet and as he ran
he craned his head skyward.

Shooting down toward the plateau, forward rockets braking, was a small
spaceship!

Hope rose within him and he glanced back over his shoulder. Hope died
instantly. The Prowler was gaining on him, gaining fast.

Suddenly his legs gave out. Simply folded up, worn out with the
punishment they had taken. He threw up his arms to shield his helmet
plate and sobbed in panic.

The Asteroid Prowler would get him now. Sure as shooting. Just at the
minute rescue came, the Prowler would get him.

But the Prowler didn't get him. Nothing happened at all. Surprised, he
sat up and spun around, crouching.

The ship had landed, almost at the edge of the plateau and a man was
tumbling out of the port. The Prowler had changed his course, was
galloping toward the ship.

The man from the ship ran in leaping bounds, a pistol in one gloved
hand, and his yelp of terror rang in Meek's earphones.

"Run, dang you. Run! That dad-blamed Prowler will be after us any
minute now."

"Stiffy," yelled Meek. "Stiffy, you came out to get me."

Stiffy landed beside him, hauled him to his feet.

"Dang right I came to get you," he panted. "I thought them hoodlums
would be up to some dirty tricks, so I stuck around and watched."

He jerked at Meek's arm.

"Come on, Oliver, we got to get along."

But Meek jerked his arm away.

"Look what he's doin!" he shouted. "Just look at him!"

The Prowler seemed to be bent on systematic destruction of the space
ship. His jaws were ripping at the steel plating.... Ripping at it and
tearing it away, peeling it off the frame as one might peel an orange.

"Hey," howled Stiffy. "You can't do that. Get out of there, you
danged...."

The Prowler turned to look at them, a heavy power cable in its mouth.

"You'll be electrocuted," yelped Stiffy. "Danged if it won't serve you
right."

But, far from being electrocuted, the Prowler seemed to be enjoying
himself. He sucked at the power cable and his eyes eyes glowed
blissfully.

Stiffy flourished his pistol.

"Get away," he yelled. "Get away or I'll blister your danged hide."

[Illustration: _The Prowler whirled from the shattered ship._]

Almost playfully the Prowler minced away from the ship, feet dancing.

"He did it!" said Meek.

"Did what?" Stiffy scowled bewilderedly.

"Got away from that ship, just like you told him to."

Stiffy snorted. "Don't ever kid yourself he did it because I told him
to. He couldn't even hear me, probably. Living out here like this,
he wouldn't have anything to hear with. Probably he's just trying to
decide which one of us he'll catch first. Better be ready to kick you
up some dust."

The Prowler trotted toward them, head bobbing up and down.

"Get going," Stiffy yelled at Meek and brought up his pistol. A blue
shaft of light whipped out, smacked the Prowler in the head, but the
Prowler didn't even falter in his stride. The energy charge seemed to
have no power at all. It didn't even spatter ... it looked as if the
blue pencil of raging death was boring straight into the spread of
forehead between the monstrous eyes.

"Run, you danged fool," Stiffy screeched at Meek. "I can't hold him
off."

But Meek didn't run ... instead he sprang straight into the Prowler's
path, arm upraised.

"Stop!" he yelled.


                                  III

The Prowler skidded to a stop, his metal hooves leaving scratches on
the solid rock.

For a moment the three of them stood stock still, Stiffy's jaw hanging
in astonishment.

Meek reached out a hand and patted the Prowler's massive shoulder.

"Good boy," he said. "Good boy."

"Come away from there!" Stiffy yelled in sudden terror. "Just one good
gulp and that guy would have you."

"Ah, shucks," said Meek, "he won't hurt anybody. He's only hungry,
that's all."

"That," declared Stiffy, "is just what I'm afraid of."

"You don't understand," insisted Meek. "He isn't hungry for us. He's
starved for energy. Give him another shot from the gun."

Stiffy stared at the gun hanging in his hand.

"You're sure it wouldn't make him sore?" he asked.

"Gosh, no," said Meek. "That's what he wants. He soaks it up. Didn't
you notice how the beam went right into him, without spattering or
anything. And the way he sucked that power cable. He drained your ship
of every drop of energy it had."

"He did what?" yelped Stiffy.

"He drained the ship of energy. That's what he lives on. That's why he
chased you. He wanted you to keep on shooting."

Stiffy clapped a hand to his forehead.

"We're sunk for certain, now," he declared. "There might have been a
chance to get back with just a few plates ripped off the ship. But with
all the energy gone...."

"Hey, Stiffy," yelled Meek, "take a look at this."

Stiffy moved nearer, cautiously.

"What you got now?" he demanded irritably.

"These marks on his shoulder," said Meek. His gloved finger shook
excitedly as he pointed. "They're the same kind of marks as were on
those stones I read about in the book. Marks no one could read. Fellow
who wrote the book figured they were made by some other race that had
visited Juno. Maybe a race from outside the Solar System, even."

"Good gravy," said Stiffy, in awe, "you don't think...."

"Sure, I do," Meek declared with the air of a man who is sure of his
knowledge. "A race came here one time and they had the Prowler along.
For some reason they left him. Maybe he was just a robot and they
didn't have room for him, or maybe something happened to them...."

"Say," said Stiffy, "I bet you that's just what he is. A robot. Attuned
to thought waves. That's why he minds you."

"That's what I figured," Meek agreed. "Thought waves would be the
same, no matter who thought them ... human being or a ... well ... or
something else."

A sudden thought struck Stiffy. "Maybe them guys found the Lost Mine!
By cracky, that would be something, wouldn't it? Maybe this critter
could lead us to it."

"Maybe?" Meek said doubtfully.

Meek patted the Prowler's rocky shoulder gently, filled with wonder. In
some unguessed time, in some unknown sector of space, the Prowler had
been fashioned by an alien people. For some reason they had made him,
for some reason they had left him here. Abandonment or purpose?

Meek shook his head. That would be something to puzzle over later,
something to roll around in his brain on some monotonous flight into
the maw of space.

Space! Startled at the thought clanging on his brain he jerked a quick
glance upward, saw the bleak stars staring at him. Eyes that seemed to
be laughing at him, cruel, ironic laughter.

"Stiffy," he whispered. "Stiffy, I just thought of something."

"Yeah, what is it?"

Stark terror walked in Meek's words. "My oxygen tank is better than
half gone. And the ship is wrecked...."

"Cripes," said Stiffy, "I guess we just forgot. We sure are behind the
eight ball. Somehow we got to get back to Asteroid City. And we got to
get there quick."

Meek's eyes brightened. "Stiffy, maybe.... Maybe we could ride the
Prowler."

Stiffy backed away. But Meek reached out and grasped his arm. "Come on.
It's the only way, Stiffy. We have to get there and the Prowler can
take us."

"But ... but ... but...." Stiffy stammered.

"Give me a leg up," Meek ordered.

Stiffy complied and Meek leaped astride the broad metal back, reached
down and hauled Stiffy aboard.

"Get going, you flea-bitten nag!" Meek yipped, in sudden elation.

There was reason for elation. Not until that moment had he stopped to
consider the Prowler might object to being ridden. Might consider it an
insult.

The Prowler apparently was astonished, but that was all. He shook his
head in bewilderment and weaved his neck around as if he wasn't quite
sure just what to do. But at least he hadn't started to take the place
apart.

"Giddap!" yelled Stiffy, bringing the butt of his pistol down.

The Prowler jigged a little, then gathered himself together and
started. The landscape blurred with speed as he leaped a mighty
boulder, skipped along a narrow ledge around a slick-faced mountain,
skidded a hairpin turn.

Meek and Stiffy fought desperately to hang on. The metal back was slick
and broad and there weren't any handholds. They bounced and thumped,
almost fell off a dozen times.

"Stiffy," yelled Meek, "how do we know he's taking us to Asteroid City?"

"Don't fret about that," said Stiffy. "He knows where we want to go. He
read our mind."

"I hope so," Meek said, prayerfully.

The Prowler whished around a right angle turn on a narrow ledge and the
distant peaks wheeled sickeningly against the sky.

Meek lay flat on his belly and hugged the Prowler's sides. The
mountains whistled past. He stole a look at the jagged peaks on the
near horizon and they looked like a tight board fence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Oliver Meek fought manfully to get back his composure as the Prowler
pranced down the main street of Asteroid City.

The sidewalks were lined with hundreds of staring faces, faces that
drooped in astonishment and disbelief.

Stiffy was yelling at someone. "Now, doggone you, will you believe
there is a Prowler?"

And the man he yelled at didn't have a word to say, just stood and
stared.

In the swarm of faces, Meek saw those of the Reverend Harold Brown and
Andrew Smith and, almost as if in a dream, he waved jauntily to them.
At least, he hoped the wave was jaunty. Wouldn't do to let them know
his knees were too weak to hold him up.

Smith waved back and shouted something, but the Reverend Brown's jaw
hung open and he seemed too wonder-struck to move.

This, thought Meek, is the kind of things you read about. The
conquering hero coming home astride his mighty charger. Only the
conquering hero, he remembered with a sudden twinge, usually was a
young lad who sat straight in the saddle instead of an old man with
shoulders hunched from thirty years of poring over dusty ledgers.

A man was stepping out into the street, a man who carried a gun in hand
and suddenly Meek realized they were abreast of the Silver Moon.

The armed man was Blacky Hoffman.

Here, thought Meek, is where I get it. This is what I get for playing
the big shot ... for being a smart alec, for remembering how cards
shouldn't be dealt and for shooting a man's gun out of his hand and
letting myself be talked into being a marshal.

But he sat stiff and as straight as he could on the Prowler and kept
his eyes on Hoffman. That was the only way to do. That was the way all
the heroes did in the stories he had read. And doggone, he was a hero.
Whether he liked it or not, he was one.

The street was hushed with sudden tension and the very air seemed to be
crackling with the threat of direful happenings.

Hoffman's voice rang crisply through the stillness.

"Go for your blasters, Meek!"

"I have no blasters," Meek told him calmly. "Your hoodlums took them
from me."

"Borrow Stiffy's," snapped Hoffman, and added, with a nasty laugh: "You
won't need them long."

Meek nodded, watching Hoffman narrowly. Slowly he reached back for
Stiffy's gun. He felt it in his hand, wrapped his fingers tightly
around it.

Funny, he thought, how calm he was. Like he had been in the Silver Moon
that night. There was something about a gun. It changed him, turned him
into another man.

He didn't have a chance, he knew. Hoffman would shoot before he could
ever get the gun around. But despite that, he felt foolishly sure....

Hoffman's gun flashed in the weak sunlight, blooming with blue
brilliance.

For an instant, a single fraction of a second, Meek saw the flash of
the beam straight in his eyes, but even before he could involuntarily
flinch, the beam had bent. True to its mark, it would have drilled Meek
straight between the eyes ... but it didn't go straight to its mark.
Instead, it bent and slapped itself straight between the Prowler's eyes.

And the Prowler danced a little jig of happiness as the blue spear of
energy knifed into its metal body.

"Cripes," gasped Stiffy, "he draws it! He ain't satisfied with just
taking it when you give it to him. He reaches out and gets it. Just
like a lightning rod reaching up and grabbing lightning."

Puzzlement flashed across Hoffman's face, then incredulity and finally
something that came close to fear. The gun's beam snapped off and his
hands sagged. The gun dropped in the dust. The Prowler stood stock
still.

"Well, Hoffman?" Meek asked quietly and his voice seemed to run all
along the street.

Hoffman's face twitched.

"Get down and fight like a man," he rasped.

"No," said Meek, "I won't do that. Because it wouldn't be man to man.
It would be me against your entire gang."

Hoffman started to back away, slowly, step by furtive step. Step by
step the Prowler stalked him there in the silent street.

Then Hoffman, with a scream of terror, broke and ran.

"Get him!" Meek roared at the Prowler.

The Prowler, with one lightning lunge, one flip of its whip-like neck,
got him. Got him, gently, as Meek had meant he should.

       *       *       *       *       *

Howling in mingled rage and terror, Hoffman dangled by the seat of his
pants from the Prowler's beak. Neatly as any circus horse, the Prowler
wheeled and trotted back to the Silver Moon, carrying Hoffman with a
certain gentle grace that was not lost upon the crowd.

Hoffman quieted and the crowd's jeers rang against the dome. The
Prowler pranced a bit, jiggled Hoffman up and down.

Meek raised a hand for silence, spoke to Hoffman. "O.K., Mr. Hoffman,
call out your men. All of them. Out into the middle of the street.
Where we can see them."

Hoffman swore at him.

"Jiggle him some," Meek told the Prowler. The Prowler jiggled him and
Hoffman bawled and clawed at empty air.

"Damn you," shrieked Hoffman, "get out into the street. All of you.
Just like he said."

No one stirred.

"Blaine," yelled Hoffman. "Get out there! You, too Smithers. Loomis.
Blake!"

They came slowly, shame-faced. At a command from Meek they unholstered
their blasters and heaved them in a pile.

The Prowler deposited Hoffman with them.

Meek saw Andrew Smith standing at the edge of the sidewalk and nodded
to him. "There you are, Mr. Smith. Rounded up, just like you wanted
them."

"Neat," said Stiffy, "but not gaudy."

Slowly, carefully, bones aching, Meek slid from the Prowler's back, was
surprised his legs would hold him up.

"Come in and have a drink," yelled a dozen voices all at once.

"Bet your life," agreed Stiffy, licking his chops.

Men were slapping Meek on the back, yelling at him. Yelling friendly
things, calling him an old he-wolf.

He tried to thrust out his chest but didn't succeed too well. He hoped
they wouldn't insist on his drinking of lot of _bocca_.

A hand tugged at Meek's elbow. It was the Reverend Brown.

"You aren't going to leave that beast out here all alone?" he asked.
"No telling what he might do."

"Ah, shucks," protested Stiffy, "he's gentle as a kitten. Stands
without hitching."

But even as he spoke, the Prowler lifted his head, almost as if he were
sniffing, started down the street at a swinging trot.

"Hey," yelled Stiffy, "come back here, you cross-eyed crow-bait!"

The Prowler didn't falter in his stride. He went even faster.

Cold fear gripped Meek by the throat. He tried to speak and gulped
instead. He'd just thought of something. The power plant that supplied
Asteroid City with its power and light, the very oxygen it breathed,
was down that way.

A power plant and an alien robot that was starved for energy!

"My stars!" gasped Meek.

He shook off the minister's hand and galloped down the street,
shrieking at the Prowler. But the Prowler had no thought of stopping.

Panting, Meek slowed from a gallop to a trot, then to a labored walk.
Behind him, he heard Stiffy puffing along. Behind Stiffy trailed
practically the entire population of Asteroid City.

Far ahead came the sound of rending steel and crashing structure as the
Prowler ripped the plant apart to get at the juice.

Stiffy gained Meek's side and panted at him. "Cripes, they'll crucify
us for this. We got to get him out of there."

"How?" asked Meek.

"Danged if I know," said Stiffy.

One side of the plant was a mass of tangled wreckage, surrounding a
hole out of which protruded the Prowler's hind quarters. Terrified
workers and maintenance men were running for their lives. Live wires
spat and crackled with flaming energy.


                                  IV

Meek and Stiffy halted a half block away, breath whistling in their
throats. The Prowler's tail, protruding from the hole in the side of
the plant, twitched happily. Meek regarded the scene with doleful
thoughts.

"I wish," Stiffy declared, "we'd stayed out there and died. It would
have been easier than what's liable to happen to us now."

Feet thumped behind them and a hand grabbed Meek's shoulder, grabbed
it. It was Andrew Smith, a winded, apoplectic Andrew Smith.

"What are you going to do?" he shouted at Meek.

Meek swallowed hard, tried to make his voice even. "Just studying over
the situation, Mr. Smith. I'll figure out something in a minute."

"Sure he will," insisted Stiffy. "Leave him alone. Give him time. He
always does what he says he'll do. He said he'd round up Blacky for
you, and he did. He went out single-handed and captured the Prowler.
He ..."

"Yeah," yelled Smith, "and he said the Prowler would stand without
hitching, too. And did he stand? I ask you ..."

"He didn't say that," Stiffy interrupted, testily, "I said that."

"It don't make a bit of difference who said it," shrieked Smith. "I
got stock in that plant there. And the Prowler's ruining it. He's
jeopardizing the life of this whole city. And it's all your fault. You
brought him here. I'll sue you, the both of you, so help me...."

"Ah, shut up," snapped Stiffy. "Who can think with you blabbering
around?"

Smith danced in rage. "Who's blabbering? I got a good mind to...."

He doubled up his fist and started toward Stiffy.

And once again Oliver Meek did something he never would have thought
of doing back on Earth. He put out his gloved hand, deliberately, and
pushed Smith in the face. Pushed hard, so hard that Smith thumped down
in the dust of the street and sat there, silenced by surprise.

Without even looking back, Meek strode purposefully down the street
toward the Prowler. What he meant to do he did not know. What he
possibly could do he had no idea. But anything was better than standing
there while the crowd screamed at him and men shook their fists at him.

Why, they might even lynch him! He shivered at the thought. But men
still did things like that. Especially when someone monkeyed around
with the very things they depended on for life out here in naked space.
Maybe they'd turn him out on Juno with only an hour or two of oxygen.
Maybe they'd....

Stiffy was yelling at him. "Come back, you danged old fool...."

Suddenly the ground leaped and bucked beneath Meek's feet. The power
plant reeled before his startled eyes and then, somehow, he was on his
back, watching the dome wheel and weave above him.

Fighting for breath that had been knocked out of him, he clawed his way
to his knees, tried to stand erect, but the ground still was crawling
with motion.

It was like an earthquake, he told himself, startled that he could even
think. But it couldn't be an earthquake. Juno didn't have earthquakes,
there was no reason for Juno to have earthquakes. The little planetoid
eons ago had cooled through and through, each rock, each strata had
found its place. Juno was dead, dead as the reaches of space itself,
and earthquakes don't happen on dead planets.

Out of the corner of his eyes he saw the Prowler had backed out of the
hole in the power plant, was standing with four legs spread wide,
bracing himself. His long neck was stretched high in the air and the
ugly, toothy head had the look of quick alertness.

Meek gained his feet, stood tottering, keeping upright by some fancy
footwork. The Prowler started toward him, legs gathering speed, heading
down the street.

With a hoarse whoop, Meek steadied himself, half crouched and held his
breath, leaped, leaped so hard he almost vaulted over the beast's broad
back. Sprawling, he scrambled into position astride the running robot,
saw Stiffy leaping at him. Quickly he shot out a hand, grasped Stiffy
and hauled him aboard.

Ahead of them the crowd rushed for safety, leaving a broad avenue for
the storming Prowler and his two riders.

"Get the locks open," yelled Stiffy. "Here we come!"

The crowd took up the shriek. "Get the locks open!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Prowler swept down the street, hoofs clattering like hammer blows.
Ahead of them the inner lock swung open. As the Prowler bulleted into
the entrance tunnel, the outer lock swung out and for a few wild
seconds air screamed and howled, rushing from the city into the vacuum
of space.

In frantic haste, Meek and Stiffy worked with their helmets, getting
them clamped down. Then they were out in the open, the gleaming city
behind them.

Less than half a mile away loomed a massive boulder towering a hundred
feet or more above the level of the canyon floor. The Prowler made a
beeline for it.

"Oliver," yelled Stiffy, "that thing wasn't there before. Look, it
almost blocks the canyon!"

The boulder was black but it crawled with a greenish glow, a faint
network of somber fire.

The breath caught in Meek's throat.

"Stiffy," he whispered.

Behind him, Stiffy almost sobbed in excitement. "Yeah, I know. It's a
meteor. And it's lousy with radium."

"It just fell," said Meek, voice unsteady. "That's what shook up the
place. Wonder is it didn't crack the dome wide open."

"We better jump for it," urged Stiffy, "if we don't want to get plumb
burned. Can't go near that thing without lead sheathing."

Meek flung himself sidewise, throwing up his arms to shield his helmet,
struck on his shoulders and rolled. Slowly, benumbed from the fall, he
crept out of the shadow of a high rock wall into the starlight.

Stiffy was sitting on the ground, rubbing his shins.

"Barked them up some," he admitted.

Up the valley the Prowler was arching its back and rubbing against the
green-glowing boulder.

"Just like a dad-blamed cat that has found some catnip," said Stiffy.
"Must sort of like that radium."

He rose slowly, dusted off his suit.

"Well," he suggested, "let's you and me go into action."

"Action?"

"Sure. Let's go back and file us a claim on that meteor. Don't need to
worry about anybody else jumping it, cause every dad-blamed one of them
is scared speechless of the Prowler. They won't go near the meteor long
as he's around."

Meek stared at the meteor speculatively. "That's worth a lot of money,
isn't it, Stiffy? Filled with radium like that."

"Bet your boots," said Stiffy cheerfully. "We go fifty-fifty on her.
Split equal ways. We're pardners."

"Tell you what you do," Meek said slowly. "You take it all. Just take
out enough to fix up the damage back there and call that my share."

Stiffy's jaw drooped. "Say, what you getting at?"

"I'm leaving," said Meek.

"Good gravy! Leaving! And just when we made us a strike."

"You don't understand," said Meek. "I didn't come out here to find
radium. Or to arrest gangs. Or even to capture an Asteroid Prowler. I
just came out to look around. Nice and quiet. Didn't want to bother
anybody. Didn't want anybody to bother me."

"Doggone it," said Stiffy, "and I was just figuring maybe, soon as we
cleaned up the radium, we might get that Prowler to lead us to the Lost
Mine."

       *       *       *       *       *

Meek brightened. "I have a hunch I know where that Lost Mine is,
Stiffy. Remember there was a cut-back in the cliff near where we found
the Prowler. Well, when I first saw him, he was in that place. Got a
hunch maybe that's the mine."

Stiffy grinned. "So you're sticking with me."

Meek shook his head. "No, I'm still leaving."

"Just like that?" said Stiffy.

Stiffy held out his hand, "O.K., if that's what you want to do. I'll
bank your half in the First Martian back on Earth. Leave my address
there. Might want to get in touch with me some time."

Meek gripped his hand. "You don't need to do that. Take all of it. Just
see the plant's fixed up."

Stiffy's eyes shone queerly, moistly in the starlight. "Shucks, there's
enough for both of us. More than enough." His voice was rough. "Now get
along with you."

Meek started to walk away.

"Goodbye, Stiffy," he called.

"So long," Stiffy shouted.

Meek hesitated. It seemed there should have been more he could have
said. Some way to let Stiffy know he liked him. Some way to tell him he
was a friend in a life which had known few friends.

He tried to think of ways to put what he felt in words, but there
wasn't any way, none that didn't sound awkward and sentimental.

He wheeled about, headed for the space port. His feet went faster and
faster, until finally he was running.

He had to get out of here, he told himself, before he got into another
jam. His luck was stretched too thin already. A fellow just couldn't go
on having luck like that.

And besides, there was all of space to roam in, other places to see.
That was what he had set out to do. To see the Solar System in his own
ship, to do all the things he'd dreamed about back in the cubby hole at
Lunar Exports, Inc.

And he was going to do just that, he promised himself. Although he
hoped the next stop would be more peaceable.

Oliver Meek sighed happily--_this was the life_.





End of Project Gutenberg's Mr. Meek--Musketeer, by Clifford D. Simak

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MR. MEEK--MUSKETEER ***

***** This file should be named 63046.txt or 63046.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/0/4/63046/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
