The Project Gutenberg EBook of Morgue Ship, by Ray Bradbury

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Morgue Ship

Author: Ray Bradbury

Release Date: August 25, 2020 [EBook #63041]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MORGUE SHIP ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                              Morgue Ship

                            By RAY BRADBURY

               This was Burnett's last trip. Three more
            shelves to fill with space-slain warriors--and
                  he would be among the living again.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1944.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


He heard the star-port grind open, and the movement of the metal claws
groping into space, and then the star-port closed.

There was another dead man aboard the _Constellation_.

Sam Burnett shook his long head, trying to think clearly. Pallid and
quiet, three bodies lay on the cold transparent tables around him;
machines stirred, revolved, hummed. He didn't see them. He didn't see
anything but a red haze over his mind. It blotted out the far wall of
the laboratory where the shelves went up and down, numbered in scarlet,
keeping the bodies of soldiers from all further harm.

Burnett didn't move. He stood there in his rumpled white surgical
gown, staring at his fingers gloved in bone-white rubber; feeling all
tight and wild inside himself. It went on for days. Moving the ship.
Opening the star-port. Extending the retriever claw. Plucking some poor
warrior's body out of the void.

He didn't like it any more. Ten years is too long to go back and
forth from Earth to nowhere. You came out empty and you went back
full-cargoed with a lot of warriors who didn't laugh or talk or smoke,
who just lay on their shelves, all one hundred of them, waiting for a
decent burial.

"Number ninety-eight." Coming matter of fact and slow, Rice's voice
from the ceiling radio hit Burnett.

"Number ninety-eight," Burnett repeated. "Working on ninety-five,
ninety-six and ninety-seven now. Blood-pumps, preservative, slight
surgery." Off a million miles away his voice was talking. It sounded
deep. It didn't belong to him anymore.

Rice said:

"Boyohbody! Two more pick-ups and back to New York. Me for a ten-day
drunk!"

Burnett peeled the gloves off his huge, red, soft hands, slapped them
into a floor incinerator mouth. Back to Earth. Then spin around and
shoot right out again in the trail of the war-rockets that blasted one
another in galactic fury, to sidle up behind gutted wrecks of ships,
salvaging any bodies still intact after the conflict.

Two men. Rice and himself. Sharing a cozy morgue ship with a hundred
other men who had forgotten, quite suddenly, however, to talk again.

Ten years of it. Every hour of those ten years eating like maggots
inside, working out to the surface of Burnett's face, working under the
husk of his starved eyes and starved limbs. Starved for life. Starved
for action.

This would be his last trip, or he'd know the reason why!

"Sam!"

Burnett jerked. Rice's voice clipped through the drainage-preservative
lab, bounded against glassite retorts, echoed from the refrigerator
shelves. Burnett stared at the tabled bodies as if they would leap to
life, even while preservative was being pumped into their veins.

"Sam! On the double! Up the rungs!"

Burnett closed his eyes and said a couple of words, firmly. Nothing was
worth running for any more. Another body. There had been one hundred
thousand bodies preceding it. Nothing unusual about a body with blood
cooling in it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shaking his head, he walked unsteadily toward the rungs that gleamed
up into the air-lock, control-room sector of the rocket. He climbed
without making any noise on the rungs.

He kept thinking the one thing he couldn't forget.

_You never catch up with the war._

All the color is ahead of you. The drive of orange rocket traces across
stars, the whamming of steel-nosed bombs into elusive targets, the
titanic explosions and breathless pursuits, the flags and the excited
glory are always a million miles ahead.

He bit his teeth together.

_You never catch up with the war._

You come along when space has settled back, when the vacuum has stopped
trembling from unleashed forces between worlds. You come along in the
dark quiet of death to find the wreckage plunging with all the fury of
its original acceleration in no particular direction. You can only see
it; you don't hear anything in space but your own heart kicking your
ribs.

You see bodies, each in its own terrific orbit, given impetus by
grinding collisions, tossed from mother ships and dancing head over
feet forever and forever with no goal. Bits of flesh in ruptured space
suits, mouths open for air that had never been there in a hundred
billion centuries. And they kept dancing without music until you
extended the retriever-claw and culled them into the air-lock.

That was all the war-glory he got. Nothing but the stunned, shivering
silence, the memory of rockets long gone, and the shelves filling up
all too quickly with men who had once loved laughing.

You wondered who all the men were; and who the next ones would be.
After ten years you made yourself blind to them. You went around doing
your job with mechanical hands.

But even a machine breaks down....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Sam!" Rice turned swiftly as Burnett dragged himself up the ladder.
Red and warm, Rice's face hovered over the body of a sprawled enemy
official. "Take a look at this!"

Burnett caught his breath. His eyes narrowed. There was something wrong
with the body; his experienced glance knew that. He didn't know what it
was.

Maybe it was because the body looked a little _too_ dead.

Burnett didn't say anything, but he climbed the rest of the way,
stood quietly in the grey-metal air-lock. The enemy official was as
delicately made as a fine white spider. Eyelids, closed, were faintly
blue. The hair was thin silken strands of pale gold, waved and pressed
close to a veined skull. Where the thin-lipped mouth fell open a
cluster of needle-tipped teeth glittered. The fragile body was enclosed
completely in milk-pale syntha-silk, a holstered gun at the middle.

Burnett rubbed his jaw. "Well?"

Rice exploded. His eyes were hot in his young, sharp-cut face, hot and
black. "Good Lord, Sam, do you know who this is?"

Burnett scowled uneasily and said no.

"It's Lethla!" Rice retorted.

Burnett said, "Lethla?" And then: "Oh, yes! Kriere's majordomo. That
right?"

"Don't say it calm, Sam. Say it big. Say it big! If Lethla is here in
space, then Kriere's not far away from him!"

Burnett shrugged. More bodies, more people, more war. What the hell.
What the hell. He was tired. Talk about bodies and rulers to someone
else.

Rice grabbed him by the shoulders. "Snap out of it, Sam. Think!
Kriere--The All-Mighty--in our territory. His right hand man dead. That
means Kriere was in an accident, too!"

Sam opened his thin lips and the words fell out all by themselves.
"Look, Rice, you're new at this game. I've been at it ever since the
Venus-Earth mess started. It's been see-sawing back and forth since the
day you played hookey in the tenth grade, and I've been in the thick
of it. When there's nothing left but seared memories, I'll be prowling
through the void picking up warriors and taking them back to the good
green Earth. Grisly, yes, but it's routine.

"As for Kriere--if he's anywhere around, he's smart. Every precaution
is taken to protect that one."

"But Lethla! His body must mean something!"

"And if it does? Have we got guns aboard this morgue-ship? Are we a
battle-cuiser to go against him?"

"We'll radio for help?"

"Yeah? If there's a warship within our radio range, seven hundred
thousand miles, we'll get it. Unfortunately, the tide of battle has
swept out past Earth in a new war concerning Io. That's out, Rice."

Rice stood about three inches below Sam Burnett's six-foot-one. Jaw
hard and determined, he stared at Sam, a funny light in his eyes. His
fingers twitched all by themselves at his sides. His mouth twisted,
"You're one hell of a patriot, Sam Burnett!"

Burnett reached out with one long finger, tapped it quietly on Rice's
barrel-chest. "Haul a cargo of corpses for three thousand nights and
days and see how patriotic you feel. All those fine muscled lads
bloated and crushed by space pressures and heat-blasts. Fine lads who
start out smiling and get the smile burned off down to the bone--"

Burnett swallowed and didn't say anything more, but he closed his eyes.
He stood there, smelling the death-odor in the hot air of the ship,
hearing the chug-chug-chug of the blood pumps down below, and his own
heart waiting warm and heavy at the base of his throat.

"This is my last cargo, Rice. I can't take it any longer. And I don't
care much how I go back to earth. This Venusian here--what's his name?
Lethla. He's number ninety-eight. Shove me into shelf ninety-nine
beside him and get the hell home. That's how I feel!"

Rice was going to say something, but he didn't have time.

Lethla was alive.

He rose from the floor with slow, easy movements, almost like a dream.
He didn't say anything. The heat-blast in his white fingers did all the
necessary talking. It didn't say anything either, but Burnett knew what
language it would use if it had to.

Burnett swallowed hard. The body had looked funny. Too dead. Now he
knew why. Involuntarily, Burnett moved forward. Lethla moved like a
pale spider, flicking his fragile arm to cover Burnett, the gun in it
like a dead cold star.

Rice sucked in his breath. Burnett forced himself to take it easy. From
the corners of his eyes he saw Rice's expression go deep and tight,
biting lines into his sharp face.

Rice got it out, finally. "How'd you do it?" he demanded, bitterly.
"How'd you live in the void? It's impossible!"

A crazy thought came ramming down and exploded in Burnett's head. _You
never catch up with the war!_

But what if the war catches up with you?

What in hell would Lethla be wanting aboard a morgue ship?

       *       *       *       *       *

Lethla half-crouched in the midst of the smell of death and the
chugging of blood-pumps below. In the silence he reached up with quick
fingers, tapped a tiny crystal stud upon the back of his head, and the
halves of a microscopically thin chrysalis parted transparently off
of his face. He shucked it off, trailing air-tendrils that had been
inserted, hidden in the uniform, ending in thin globules of oxygen.

He spoke. Triumph warmed his crystal-thin voice. "That's how I did it,
Earthman."

"Glassite!" said Rice. "A face-moulded mask of glassite!"

Lethla nodded. His milk-blue eyes dilated. "Very marvelously pared to
an unbreakable thickness of one-thirtieth of an inch; worn only on the
head. You have to look quickly to notice it, and, unfortunately, viewed
as you saw it, outside the ship, floating in the void, not discernible
at all."

Prickles of sweat appeared on Rice's face. He swore at the Venusian and
the Venusian laughed like some sort of stringed instrument, high and
quick.

Burnett laughed, too. Ironically. "First time in years a man ever came
aboard the Constellation alive. It's a welcome change."

Lethla showed his needle-like teeth. "I thought it might be. Where's
your radio?"

"Go find it!" snapped Rice, hotly.

"I will." One hand, blue-veined, on the ladder-rungs, Lethla paused.
"I know you're weaponless; Purple Cross regulations. And this air-lock
is safe. Don't move." Whispering, his naked feet padded white up the
ladder. Two long breaths later something crashed; metal and glass and
coils. The radio.

Burnett put his shoulder blades against the wall-metal, looking at his
feet. When he glanced up, Rice's fresh, animated face was spoiled by
the new bitterness in it.

Lethla came down. Like a breath of air on the rungs.

He smiled. "That's better. Now. We can talk--"

Rice said it, slow:

"Interplanetary law declares it straight, Lethla! Get out! Only dead
men belong here."

Lethla's gun grip tightened. "More talk of that nature, and only dead
men there will be." He blinked. "But first--we must rescue Kriere...."

"Kriere!" Rice acted as if he had been hit in the jaw.

Burnett moved his tongue back and forth on his lips silently, his eyes
lidded, listening to the two of them as if they were a radio drama.
Lethla's voice came next:

"Rather unfortunately, yes. He's still alive, heading toward Venus
at an orbital velocity of two thousand m.p.h., wearing one of these
air-chrysali. Enough air for two more hours. Our flag ship was attacked
unexpectedly yesterday near Mars. We were forced to take to the
life-boats, scattering, Kriere and I in one, the others sacrificing
their lives to cover our escape. We were lucky. We got through the
Earth cordon unseen. But luck can't last forever.

"We saw your morgue ship an hour ago. It's a long, long way to Venus.
We were running out of fuel, food, water. Radio was broken. Capture
was certain. You were coming our way; we took the chance. We set a
small time-bomb to destroy the life-rocket, and cast off, wearing our
chrysali-helmets. It was the first time we had ever tried using them to
trick anyone. We knew you wouldn't know we were alive until it was too
late and we controlled your ship. We knew you picked up all bodies for
brief exams, returning alien corpses to space later."

Rice's voice was sullen. "A set-up for you, huh? Traveling under the
protection of the Purple Cross you can get your damned All-Mighty safe
to Venus."

Lethla bowed slightly. "Who would suspect a Morgue Rocket of providing
safe hiding for precious Venusian cargo?"

"Precious is the word for you, brother!" said Rice.

"Enough!" Lethla moved his gun several inches.

"Accelerate toward Venus, mote-detectors wide open. Kriere must be
picked up--_now!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

Rice didn't move. Burnett moved first, feeling alive for the first time
in years. "Sure," said Sam, smiling. "We'll pick him up."

"No tricks," said Lethla.

Burnett scowled and smiled together. "No tricks. You'll have Kriere on
board the _Constellation_ in half an hour or I'm no coroner."

"Follow me up the ladder."

Lethla danced up, turned, waved his gun. "Come on."

Burnett went up, quick. Almost as if he enjoyed doing Lethla a favor.
Rice grumbled and cursed after him.

On the way up, Burnett thought about it. About Lethla poised like
a white feather at the top, holding death in his hand. You never
knew whose body would come in through the star-port next. Number
ninety-eight was Lethla. Number ninety-nine would be Kriere.

There were two shelves numbered and empty. They should be filled. And
what more proper than that Kriere and Lethla should fill them? But, he
chewed his lip, that would need a bit of doing. And even then the cargo
wouldn't be full. Still one more body to get; one hundred. And you
never knew who it would be.

He came out of the quick thoughts when he looped his long leg over
the hole-rim, stepped up, faced Lethla in a cramped control room that
was one glittering swirl of silver levers, audio-plates and visuals.
Chronometers, clicking, told of the steady dropping toward the sun at a
slow pace.

Burnett set his teeth together, bone against bone. Help Kriere escape?
See him safely to Venus, and then be freed? Sounded easy, wouldn't be
hard. Venusians weren't blind with malice. Rice and he could come out
alive; if they cooperated.

But there were a lot of warriors sleeping on a lot of numbered shelves
in the dim corridors of the long years. And their dead lips were
stirring to life in Burnett's ears. Not so easily could they be ignored.

_You may never catch up with the war again._

The last trip!

Yes, this could be it. Capture Kriere and end the war. But what
ridiculous fantasy was it made him believe he could actually do it?

Two muscles moved on Burnett, one in each long cheek. The sag in his
body vanished as he tautened his spine, flexed his lean-sinewed arms,
wet thin lips.

"Now, where do you want this crate?" he asked Lethla easily.

Lethla exhaled softly. "Cooperation. I like it. You're wise, Earthman."

"Very," said Burnett.

He was thinking about three thousand eternal nights of young bodies
being ripped, slaughtered, flung to the vacuum tides. Ten years of
hating a job and hoping that some day there would be a last trip and it
would all be over.

Burnett laughed through his nose. Controls moved under his fingers like
fluid; loved, caressed, tended by his familiar touching. Looking ahead,
he squinted.

"There's your Ruler now, Lethla. Doing somersaults. Looks dead. A good
trick."

"Cut power! We don't want to burn him!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Burnett cut. Kriere's milky face floated dreamily into a visual-screen,
eyes sealed, lips gaping, hands sagging, clutching emptily at the stars.

"We're about fifty miles from him, catching up." Burnett turned to
Lethla with an intent scowl. Funny. This was the first and the last
time anybody would ever board the _Constellation_ alive. His stomach
went flat, tautened with sudden weakening fear.

If Kriere could be captured, that meant the end of the war, the end
of shelves stacked with sleeping warriors, the end of this blind
searching. Kriere, then, had to be taken aboard. After that--

Kriere, the All-Mighty. At whose behest all space had quivered like
a smitten gong for part of a century. Kriere, revolving in his neat,
water-blue uniform, emblems shining gold, heat-gun tucked in glossy
jet holster. With Kriere aboard, chances of overcoming him would be
eliminated. Now: Rice and Burnett against Lethla. Lethla favored
because of his gun.

Kriere would make odds impossible.

Something had to be done before Kriere came in.

Lethla had to be yanked off guard. Shocked, bewildered,
fooled--somehow. But--how?

Burnett's jaw froze tight. He could feel a spot on his shoulder-blade
where Lethla would send a bullet crashing into rib, sinew,
artery--heart.

There was a way. And there was a weapon. And the war would be over and
this would be the last trip.

Sweat covered his palms in a nervous smear.

"Steady, Rice," he said, matter of factly. With the rockets cut, there
was too much silence, and his voice sounded guilty standing up alone in
the center of that silence. "Take controls, Rice. I'll manipulate the
star-port."

Burnett slipped from the control console. Rice replaced him grimly.
Burnett strode to the next console of levers. That spot on his back
kept aching like it was sear-branded X. For the place where the bullet
sings and rips. And if you turn quick, catching it in the arm first,
why--

Kriere loomed bigger, a white spider delicately dancing on a web of
stars. His eyes flicked open behind the glassite sheath, and saw the
_Constellation_. Kriere smiled. His hands came up. He knew he was about
to be rescued.

Burnett smiled right back at him. What Kriere didn't know was that he
was about to end a ten-years' war.

There was only _one_ way of drawing Lethla off guard, and it had to be
fast.

Burnett jabbed a purple-topped stud. The star-port clashed open as
it had done a thousand times before; but for the first time it was a
good sound. And out of the star-port, at Sam Burnett's easily fingered
directions, slid the long claw-like mechanism that picked up bodies
from space.

Lethla watched, intent and cold and quiet. The gun was cold and quiet,
too.

The claw glided toward Kriere without a sound, now, dream-like in its
slowness.

It reached Kriere.

Burnett inhaled a deep breath.

The metal claw cuddled Kriere in its shiny palm.

Lethla watched.

He watched while Burnett exhaled, touched another lever and said: "You
know, Lethla, there's an old saying that only dead men come aboard the
_Constellation_. I believe it."

       *       *       *       *       *

And the claw closed as Burnett spoke, closed slowly and certainly, all
around Kriere, crushing him into a ridiculous posture of silence. There
was blood running on the claw, and the only recognizable part was the
head, which was carefully preserved for identification.

That was the only way to draw Lethla off guard.

Burnett spun about and leaped.

The horror on Lethla's face didn't go away as he fired his gun.

Rice came in fighting, too, but not before something like a red-hot
ramrod stabbed Sam Burnett, catching him in the ribs, spinning him back
like a drunken idiot to fall in a corner.

Fists made blunt flesh noises. Lethla went down, weaponless and
screaming. Rice kicked. After awhile Lethla quit screaming, and the
room swam around in Burnett's eyes, and he closed them tight and
started laughing.

He didn't finish laughing for maybe ten minutes. He heard the retriever
claws come inside, and the star-port grind shut.

Out of the red darkness, Rice's voice came and then he could see Rice's
young face over him. Burnett groaned.

Rice said, "Sam, you shouldn't have done it. You shouldn't have, Sam."

"To hell with it." Burnett winced, and fought to keep his eyes open.
Something wet and sticky covered his chest. "I said this was my last
trip and I meant it. One way or the other, I'd have quit!"

"This is the hard way--"

"Maybe. I dunno. Kind of nice to think of all those kids who'll never
have to come aboard the _Constellation_, though, Rice." His voice
trailed off. "You watch the shelves fill up and you never know who'll
be next. Who'd have thought, four days ago--"

Something happened to his tongue so it felt like hard ice blocking his
mouth. He had a lot more words to say, but only time to get a few of
them out:

"Rice?"

"Yeah, Sam?"

"We haven't got a full cargo, boy."

"Full enough for me, sir."

"But still not full. If we went back to Center Base without filling
the shelves, it wouldn't be right. Look there--number ninety-eight is
Lethla--number ninety-nine is Kriere. Three thousand days of rolling
this rocket, and not once come back without a bunch of the kids who
want to sleep easy on the good green earth. Not right to be going back
any way--but--the way--we used to--"

His voice got all full of fog. As thick as the fists of a dozen
warriors. Rice was going away from him. Rice was standing still, and
Burnett was lying down, not moving, but somehow Rice was going away a
million miles.

"Ain't I one hell of a patriot, Rice?"

Then everything got dark except Rice's face. And that was starting to
dissolve.

Ninety-eight: Lethla. Ninety-nine: Kriere.

He could still see Rice standing over him for a long time, breathing
out and in. Down under the tables the blood-pumps pulsed and pulsed,
thick and slow. Rice looked down at Burnett and then at the empty shelf
at the far end of the room, and then back at Burnett again.

And then he said softly:

"_One hundred._"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Morgue Ship, by Ray Bradbury

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MORGUE SHIP ***

***** This file should be named 63041.txt or 63041.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/0/4/63041/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
