The Project Gutenberg EBook of Double Trouble, by Carl Jacobi

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Double Trouble

Author: Carl Jacobi

Release Date: October 12, 2020 [EBook #63442]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOUBLE TROUBLE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            DOUBLE TROUBLE

                            by CARL JACOBI

              Grannie Annie, that waspish science-fiction
            writer, was in a jam again. What with red-spot
             fever, talking cockatoos and flagpole trees,
              I was running in circles--especially since
               Grannie became twins every now and then.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1945.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


We had left the offices of _Interstellar Voice_ three days ago, Earth
time, and now as the immense disc of Jupiter flamed across the sky,
entered the outer limits of the Baldric. Grannie Annie strode in the
lead, her absurd long-skirted black dress looking as out of place in
this desert as the trees.

Flagpole trees. They rose straight up like enormous cat-tails, with
only a melon-shaped protuberance at the top to show they were a form of
vegetation. Everything else was blanketed by the sand and the powerful
wind that blew from all quarters.

As we reached the first of those trees, Grannie came to a halt.

"This is the Baldric all right. If my calculations are right, we've hit
it at its narrowest spot."

Ezra Karn took a greasy pipe from his lips and spat. "It looks like the
rest of this God-forsaken moon," he said, "'ceptin for them sticks."

Xartal, the Martian illustrator, said nothing. He was like that,
taciturn, speaking only when spoken to.

He could be excused this time, however, for this was only our third day
on Jupiter's Eighth Moon, and the country was still strange to us.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Annabella C. Flowers, that renowned writer of science fiction,
visiphoned me at Crater City, Mars, to meet her here, I had thought she
was crazy. But Miss Flowers, known to her friends as Grannie Annie,
had always been mildly crazy. If you haven't read her books, you've
missed something. She's the author of _Lady of the Green Flames_,
_Lady of the Runaway Planet_, _Lady of the Crimson Space-Beast_, and
other works of science fiction. Blood-and-thunder as these books are,
however, they have one redeeming feature--authenticity of background.
Grannie Annie was the original research digger-upper, and when she
laid the setting of a yarn on a star of the sixth magnitude, only a
transportation-velocity of less than light could prevent her from
visiting her "stage" in person.

Therefore when she asked me to meet her at the landing field of
_Interstellar Voice_ on Jupiter's Eighth Moon, I knew she had another
novel in the state of embryo.

What I didn't expect was Ezra Karn. He was an old prospector Grannie
had met, and he had become so attached to the authoress he now followed
her wherever she went. As for Xartal, he was a Martian and was slated
to do the illustrations for Grannie's new book.

Five minutes after my ship had blasted down, the four of us met in the
offices of _Interstellar Voice_. And then I was shaking hands with
Antlers Park, the manager of I. V. himself.

"Glad to meet you," he said cordially. "I've just been trying to
persuade Miss Flowers not to attempt a trip into the Baldric."

"What's the Baldric?" I had asked.

Antlers Park flicked the ash from his cheroot and shrugged.

"Will you believe me, sir," he said, "when I tell you I've been out
here on this forsaken moon five years and don't rightly know myself?"

I scowled at that; it didn't make sense.

"However, as you perhaps know, the only reason for colonial activities
here at all is because of the presence of an ore known as Acoustix.
It's no use to the people of Earth but of untold value on Mars. I'm
not up on the scientific reasons, but it seems that life on the red
planet has developed with a supersonic method of vocal communication.
The Martian speaks as the Earthman does, but he amplifies his thoughts'
transmission by way of wave lengths as high as three million vibrations
per second. The trouble is that by the time the average Martian reaches
middle age, his ability to produce those vibrations steadily decreases.
Then it was found that this ore, Acoustix, revitalized their sounding
apparatus, and the rush was on."

"What do you mean?"

Park leaned back. "The rush to find more of the ore," he explained.
"But up until now this moon is the only place where it can be found.

"There are two companies here," he continued, "_Interstellar Voice_
and _Larynx Incorporated_. Chap by the name of Jimmy Baker runs that.
However, the point is, between the properties of these two companies
stretches a band or belt which has become known as the Baldric.

"There are two principal forms of life in the Baldric; flagpole trees
and a species of ornithoid resembling cockatoos. So far no one has
crossed the Baldric without trouble."

"What sort of trouble?" Grannie Annie had demanded. And when Antlers
Park stuttered evasively, the old lady snorted, "Fiddlesticks, I never
saw trouble yet that couldn't be explained. We leave in an hour."

       *       *       *       *       *

So now here we were at the outer reaches of the Baldric, four travelers
on foot with only the barest necessities in the way of equipment and
supplies.

I walked forward to get a closer view of one of the flagpole trees. And
then abruptly I saw something else.

A queer-looking bird squatted there in the sand, looking up at me.
Silver in plumage, it resembled a parrot with a crest; and yet it
didn't. In some strange way the thing was a hideous caricature.

"Look what I found," I yelled.

"What I found," said the cockatoo in a very human voice.

"Thunder, it talks," I said amazed.

"Talks," repeated the bird, blinking its eyes.

The cockatoo repeated my last statement again, then rose on its short
legs, flapped its wings once and soared off into the sky. Xartal,
the Martian illustrator, already had a notebook in his hands and was
sketching a likeness of the creature.

Ten minutes later we were on the move again. We saw more silver
cockatoos and more flagpole trees. Above us, the great disc of Jupiter
began to descend toward the horizon.

And then all at once Grannie stopped again, this time at the top of a
high ridge. She shielded her eyes and stared off into the plain we had
just crossed.

"Billy-boy," she said to me in a strange voice, "look down there and
tell me what you see."

I followed the direction of her hand and a shock went through me from
head to foot. Down there, slowly toiling across the sand, advanced a
party of four persons. In the lead was a little old lady in a black
dress. Behind her strode a grizzled Earth man in a flop-brimmed hat,
another Earth man, and a Martian.

_Detail for detail they were a duplicate of ourselves!_

"A mirage!" said Ezra Karn.

But it wasn't a mirage. As the party came closer, we could see that
their lips were moving, and their voices became audible. I listened in
awe. The duplicate of myself was talking to the duplicate of Grannie
Annie, and she was replying in the most natural way.

Steadily the four travelers approached. Then, when a dozen yards away,
they suddenly faded like a negative exposed to light and disappeared.

"What do you make of it?" I said in a hushed voice.

Grannie shook her head. "Might be a form of mass hypnosis superinduced
by some chemical radiations," she replied. "Whatever it is, we'd better
watch our step. There's no telling what might lie ahead."

We walked after that with taut nerves and watchful eyes, but we saw no
repetition of the "mirage." The wind continued to blow ceaselessly, and
the sand seemed to grow more and more powdery.

For some time I had fixed my gaze on a dot in the sky which I supposed
to be a high-flying cockatoo. As that dot continued to move across the
heavens in a single direction, I called Grannie's attention to it.

"It's a kite," she nodded. "There should be a car attached to it
somewhere."

She offered no further explanation, but a quarter of an hour later as
we topped another rise a curious elliptical car with a long slanting
windscreen came into view. Attached to its hood was a taut wire which
slanted up into the sky to connect with the kite.

A man was driving and when he saw us, he waved. Five minutes later
Grannie was shaking his hand vigorously and mumbling introductions.

"This is Jimmy Baker," she said. "He manages _Larynx Incorporated_, and
he's the real reason we're here."

I decided I liked Baker the moment I saw him. In his middle thirties,
he was tall and lean, with pleasant blue eyes which even his sand
goggles could not conceal.

"I can't tell you how glad I am you're here, Grannie," he said. "If
anybody can help me, you can."

Grannie's eyes glittered. "Trouble with the mine laborers?" she
questioned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jimmy Baker nodded. He told his story over the roar of the wind as we
headed back across the desert. Occasionally he touched a stud on an
electric windlass to which the kite wire was attached. Apparently these
adjustments moved planes or fins on the kite and accounted for the
car's ability to move in any direction.

"If I weren't a realist, I'd say that _Larynx Incorporated_ has been
bewitched," he began slowly. "We pay our men high wages and give them
excellent living conditions with a vacation on Callisto every year.
Up until a short time ago most of them were in excellent health and
spirits. Then the Red Spot Fever got them."

"Red Spot Fever?" Grannie looked at him curiously.

Jimmy Baker nodded. "The first symptoms are a tendency to garrulousness
on the part of the patient. Then they disappear."

He paused to make an adjustment of the windlass.

"They walk out into the Baldric," he continued, "and nothing can stop
them. We tried following them, of course, but it was no go. As soon as
they realize they're being followed, they stop. But the moment our eyes
are turned, they give us the slip."

"But surely you must have some idea of where they go," Grannie said.

Baker lit a cigarette. "There's all kinds of rumors," he replied, "but
none of them will hold water. By the way, there's a cockatoo eyrie
ahead of us."

I followed his gaze and saw a curious structure suspended between
a rude circle of flagpole trees. A strange web-like formation of
translucent gauzy material, it was. Fully two hundred cockatoos were
perched upon it. They watched us with their mild eyes as we passed, but
they didn't move.

After that we were rolling up the driveway that led to the offices of
_Larynx Incorporated_. As Jimmy Baker led the way up the inclined ramp,
a door in the central building opened, and a man emerged. His face was
drawn.

"Mr. Baker," he said breathlessly, "seventy-five workers at Shaft Four
have headed out into the Baldric."

Baker dropped his cigarette and ground his heel on it savagely.

"Shaft Four, eh?" he repeated. "That's our principal mine. If the fever
spreads there, I'm licked."

He motioned us into his office and strode across to a desk. Silent
Xartal, the Martian illustrator, took a chair in a corner and got his
notebook out, sketching the room's interior. Grannie Annie remained
standing.

Presently the old lady walked across to the desk and helped herself to
the bottle of Martian whiskey there.

"There must be ways of stopping this," she said. "Have you called in
any physicians? Why don't you call an enforced vacation and send the
men away until the plague has died down?"

Baker shook his head. "Three doctors from Callisto were here last
month. They were as much at loss as I am. As for sending the men away,
I may have to do that, but when I do, it means quits. Our company is
chartered with Spacolonial, and you know what that means. Failure
to produce during a period of thirty days or more, and you lose all
rights."

A visiphone bell sounded, and Baker walked across to the instrument. A
man's face formed in the vision plate. Baker listened, said "Okay" and
threw off the switch.

"The entire crew of Shaft Four have gone out into the Baldric," he said
slowly. There was a large map hanging on the wall back of Baker's desk.
Grannie Annie walked across to it and began to study its markings.

"Shaft Four is at the outer edge of the Baldric at a point where that
corridor is at its widest," she said.

Baker looked up. "That's right. We only began operations there a
comparatively short time ago. Struck a rich vein of Acoustix that
runs deep in. If that vein holds out, we'll double the output of
_Interstellar Voice_, our rival, in a year."

Grannie nodded. "I think you and I and Xartal had better take a run up
there," she said. "But first I want to see your laboratory."

There was no refusing her. Jimmy Baker led the way down to a lower
level where a huge laboratory and experimental shop ran the length
of the building. Grannie seized a light weight carry-case and began
dropping articles into it. A pontocated glass lens, three or four
Wellington radite bulbs, each with a spectroscopic filament, a small
dynamo that would operate on a kite windlass, and a quantity of wire
and other items.

The kite car was brought out again, and the old woman, Baker and the
Martian took their places in it. Then Jimmy waved, and the car began to
roll down the ramp.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not until they had vanished in the desert haze did I sense the
loneliness of this outpost. With that loneliness came a sudden sense of
foreboding. Had I been a fool to let Grannie go? I thought of her, an
old woman who should be in a rocking chair, knitting socks. If anything
happened to Annabella C. Flowers, I would never forgive myself and
neither would her millions of readers.

Ezra Karn and I went back into the office. The old prospector chuckled.

"Dang human dynamo. Got more energy than a runaway comet."

A connecting door on the far side of the office opened onto a long
corridor which ended at a staircase.

"Let's look around," I said.

We passed down the corridor and climbed the staircase to the second
floor. Here were the general offices of _Larynx Incorporated_, and
through glass doors I could see clerks busy with counting machines and
report tapes. In another chamber the extremely light Acoustix ore was
being packed into big cases and marked for shipment. At the far end a
door to a small room stood open. Inside a young man was tilted back in
a swivel chair before a complicated instrument panel.

"C'mon in," he said, seeing us. "If you want a look at your friends,
here they are."

He flicked a stud, and the entire wall above the panel underwent a
slow change of colors. Those colors whirled kaleidescopically, then
coalesced into a three-dimensional scene.

It was a scene of a rapidly unfolding desert country as seen from the
rear of a kite car. Directly behind the windscreen, backs turned to me,
were Jimmy Baker, Grannie, and Xartal. It was as if I were standing
directly behind them.

"It's Mr. Baker's own invention," the operator said. "An improvement on
the visiphone."

"Do you mean to say you can follow the movements of that car and its
passengers wherever it goes? Can you hear them talk too?"

"Sure." The operator turned another dial, and Grannie's falsetto voice
entered the room. It stopped abruptly. "The machine uses a lot of
power," the operator said, "and as yet we haven't got much."

The cloud of anxiety which had wrapped itself about me disappeared
somewhat as I viewed this device. At least I could now keep myself
posted of Grannie's movements.

Karn and I went down to the commissary where we ate our supper. When
we returned to Jimmy Baker's office, the visiphone bell was ringing.
I went over to it and turned it on, and to my surprise the face of
Antlers Park flashed on the screen.

"Hello," he said in his friendly way. "I see you arrived all right. Is
Miss Flowers there?"

"Miss Flowers left with Mr. Baker for Shaft Four," I said. "There's
trouble up there. Red spot fever."

"Fever, eh?" repeated Park. "That's a shame. Is there anything I can
do?"

"Tell me," I said, "has your company had any trouble with this plague?"

"A little. But up until yesterday the fever's been confined to the
other side of the Baldric. We had one partial case, but my chemists
gave the chap an antitoxin that seems to have worked. Come to think of
it, I might drive over to Shaft Four and give Jimmy Baker the formula.
I haven't been out in the Baldric for years, but if you didn't have any
trouble, I shouldn't either."

We exchanged a few more pleasantries, and then he rang off. In exactly
an hour I went upstairs to the visiscreen room.

Then once more I was directly behind my friends, listening in on their
conversation. The view through the windscreen showed an irregular array
of flagpole trees, with the sky dotted by high-flying cockatoos.

"There's an eyrie over there," Jimmy Baker was saying. "We might as
well camp beside it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Moments later a rude circle of flagpole trees loomed ahead. Across the
top of them was stretched a translucent web. Jimmy and Grannie got out
of the car and began making camp. Xartal remained in his seat. He was
drawing pictures on large pieces of pasteboard, and as I stood there in
the visiscreen room, I watched him.

There was no doubt about it, the Martian was clever. He would make
a few rapid lines on one of the pasteboards, rub it a little to get
the proper shading and then go on to the next. In swift rotation
likenesses of Ezra Karn, of myself, of Jimmy Baker, and of Antlers Park
took form.

Ezra spoke over my shoulder. "He's doing scenes for Grannie's new
book," he said. "The old lady figures on using the events here for a
plot. _Look at that damned nosy bird!_"

A silver cockatoo had alighted on the kite car and was surveying
curiously Xartal's work. As each drawing was completed, the bird
scanned it with rapt attention. Abruptly it flew to the top of the
eyrie, where it seemed to be having a consultation with its bird
companions.

And then abruptly it happened. The cockatoos took off in mass flight. A
group of Earth people suddenly materialized on the eyrie, talking and
moving about as if it were the most natural thing in the world.

With a shock I saw the likeness of myself; I saw Ezra Karn; and I saw
the image of Jimmy Baker.

The _real_ Jimmy Baker stood next to Grannie, staring up at this
incredible mirage. Grannie let out a whoop. "I've got it!" she said.
"Those things we see up there are nothing more than mental images.
They're Xartal's drawings!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Don't you see," the lady continued. "Everything that Xartal put on
paper has been seen by one or more of these cockatoos. The cockatoos
are like Earth parrots all right, but not only have they the power
of copying speech, they also have the ability to recreate a mental
image of what they have seen. In other words their brains form a
powerful photographic impression of the object. That impression is
then transmitted simultaneously in telepathic wavelengths to common
foci. That eyrie might be likened to a cinema screen, receiving brain
vibrations from a hundred different sources that blend into the light
field to form what are apparently three-dimensional images."

The Larynx manager nodded slowly. "I see," he said. "But why don't the
birds reconstruct images from the actual person. Why use drawings?"

"Probably because the drawings are exaggerated in certain details and
made a greater impression on their brains," Grannie replied.

Up on the eyrie a strange performance was taking place. The duplicate
of Grannie Annie was bowing to the duplicate of Jimmy Baker, and the
image of Ezra Karn was playing leap frog with the image of Antlers Park.

Then abruptly the screen before me blurred and went blank.

"Sorry," the operator said. "I've used too much power already. Have to
give the generators a chance to build it up again."

Nodding, I turned and motioned to Karn. We went back downstairs.

"That explains something at any rate," the old prospector said. "But
how about that Red spot fever?"

On Jimmy Baker's desk was a large file marked: FEVER VICTIMS. I opened
it and found it contained the case histories of those men who had been
attacked by the strange malady.

Reading them over, I was struck by one detail. Each patient had
received the first symptoms, not while working in the mines, but while
sleeping or lounging in the barracks.

Five minutes later Karn and I were striding down a white ramp that
led to the nearest barracks. The building came into sight, a low
rectangular structure, dome-roofed to withstand the violent winds.

Inside double tiers of bunks stretched along either wall. In those
bunks some thirty men lay sleeping.

The far wall was taken up by a huge window of denvo-quartz. As I stood
there, something suddenly caught Ezra Karn's eye. He began to walk
toward that window.

"Look here," he said.

Six feet up on that window a small almost imperceptible button of dull
metal had been wedged into an aperture cut in the quartz. The central
part of the button appeared to be a powerful lens of some kind, and as
I seized it and pulled it loose, I felt the hum of tiny clock work.

All at once I had it! Red spot fever. Heat fever from the infra-red
rays of Jupiter's great spot. Someone had constructed this lens to
concentrate and amplify the power of those rays. The internal clockwork
served a double purpose. It opened a shutter, and it rotated the lens
slowly so that it played for a time on each of the sleeping men.

I slid the metal button in my pocket and left the barracks at a run.
Back in the visiscreen room, I snapped to the operator:

"Turn it on!"

The kite car swam into view in the screen above the instrument panel.
I stared with open eyes. Jimmy Baker no longer was in the car, nor
was Xartal, the Martian. Grannie Annie was there, but seated at the
controls was Antlers Park, the manager of Interstellar Voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ezra Karn jabbed my elbow. "Grannie's coming back. I thought she'd be
getting sick of this blamed moon."

It didn't make sense. In all the years I'd known Annabella C. Flowers,
never yet had I seen her desert a case until she had woven the clues
and facts to a logical conclusion.

"Ezra," I said, "we're going to drive out and meet them. There's
something screwy here."

Ten minutes later in another kite car we were driving at a fast clip
through the powdery sands of the Baldric. And before long we saw
another car approaching.

It was Grannie. As the car drew up alongside I saw her sitting in her
prim way next to Antlers Park. Park said:

"We left the others at the mine. Miss Flowers is going back with me to
my offices to help me improve the formula for that new antitoxin."

He waved his hand, and the car moved off. I watched it as it sped
across the desert, and a growing suspicion began to form in my mind.
Then, like a knife thrust, the truth struck me.

"Ezra!" I yelled, swinging the car. "That wasn't Grannie! _That was one
of those damned cockatoo images._ We've got to catch him."

The other car was some distance ahead now. Park looked back and saw us
following. He did something to the kite wire, and his car leaped ahead.

I threw the speed indicator hard over. Our kite was a huge box affair
with a steady powerful pull to the connecting wire. Park's vehicle
was drawn by a flat triangular kite that dove and fluttered with each
variance of the wind. Steadily we began to close in.

The manager of Interstellar Voice turned again, and something glinted
in his hand. There was a flash of purple flame, and a round hole
appeared in our windscreen inches above Karn's head.

"Heat gun!" Ezra yelled.

Now we were rocketing over the sand dunes, winding in and out between
the flagpole trees. I had to catch that car I told myself. Grannie
Annie's very life might be at stake, not to mention the lives of
hundreds of mine workers. Again Park took aim and again a hole
shattered our windscreen.

The wind shifted and blew from another quarter. The box kite soared,
but the triangular kite faltered. Taking advantage of Park's loss of
speed, I raced alongside.

The I. V. manager lifted his weapon frantically. But before he could
use it a third time, Ezra Karn had whipped a lariat from his belt and
sent it coiling across the intervening space.

The thong yanked tight about the manager's throat. Park did the only
thing he could do. He shut off power, and the two cars coasted to a
halt. Then I was across in the other seat, wrenching the weapon free
from his grasp.

"What have you done with Miss Flowers?" I demanded.

The manager's eyes glittered with fear as he saw my finger tense on the
trigger. Weakly he lifted an arm and pointed to the northwest.

"Val-ley. Thir-ty miles. Entrance hidden by wall of ... flagpole trees."

       *       *       *       *       *

I leaped into the driver's seat and gave the kite its head. And now the
country began to undergo a subtle change. The trees seemed to group
themselves in a long flanking corridor in a northwesterly direction, as
if to hide some secret that lay beyond. Twice I attempted to penetrate
that wall, only to find my way blocked by those curious growths.

Then a corridor opened before me; a mile forward and the desert began
again. But it was a new desert this time: the sand packed hard as
granite, the way ahead utterly devoid of vegetation. In the distance
black bulging hills extended to right and left, with a narrow chasm or
doorway between.

I headed for that entrance, and when I reached it, I shut off power
with an exclamation of astonishment.

There was a huge chair-shaped rock there, and seated upon it was
Grannie Annie. She had a tablet in her hands, and she was writing.

"Grannie!" I yelled. "What're you doing here? Where's Mr. Baker?"

She rose to her feet and clambered down the rock.

"Getting back Jimmy's mine laborers," she said, a twinkle in her eyes.
"I see you've got Antlers Park. I'm glad of that. It saves me a lot of
trouble." She took off her spectacles and wiped them on her sleeve.
"Don't look so fuddled, Billy-boy. Come along, and I'll show you."

She led the way through the narrow passage into the valley. A deep
gorge, it was, with the black sheer cliffs on either side pressing
close. Ten feet forward, I stopped short, staring in amazement.

Advancing toward me like a column of infantry came a long line of
Larynx miners. They walked slowly, looking straight ahead, moving down
the center of the gorge toward the entrance.

But there was more! A kite car was drawn up to the side. The windscreen
had been removed, and mounted on the hood was a large bullet-like
contrivance that looked not unlike a search lamp. A blinding shaft of
bluish radiance spewed from its open end. Playing it back and forth
upon the marching men were Jimmy Baker and Xartal, the Martian.

"Ultra violet," Grannie Annie explained. "The opposite end of the
vibratory scale and the only thing that will combat the infra-red rays
that cause red spot fever. Those men won't stop walking until they've
reached Shaft Four."

Grannie Annie told her story during the long ride back to Shaft Four.
We drove slowly, keeping the line of marching Larynx miners always
ahead of us.

Jimmy Baker had struck a new big lode of Acoustix, a lode which if
worked successfully would see _Larynx Incorporated_ become a far more
powerful exporting concern than _Interstellar Voice_. Antlers Park
didn't want that.

It was he or his agents who placed those lens buttons in the Larynx
barracks. _For he knew that just as Jupiter's great spot was
responsible for a climate and atmosphere suitable for an Earthman on
this Eighth Moon, so also was that spot a deadly power in itself,
capable when its rays were concentrated of causing a fatal sickness._

Then suddenly becoming fearful of Grannie's prying, Antlers Park strove
to head her off before she reached Shaft Four.

He did head her off and managed to lure her and Baker and Xartal into
the Shaft barracks where they would be exposed to the rays from the
lens button. But Grannie only pretended to contract the plague.

Park then attempted to outwit Ezra Karn and me by returning in Jimmy
Baker's kite car with a cockatoo image of Grannie.

       *       *       *       *       *

I listened to all this in silence. "But," I said when she had finished,
"how did Park manage to have that image created and why did the mine
laborers walk out into the Baldric when they contracted the fever?"

Grannie Annie frowned. "I'm not sure I can answer the first of those
questions," she replied. "You must remember Antlers Park has been on
this moon five years and during that time he must have acquainted
himself with many of its secrets. Probably he learned long ago just
what to do to make a cockatoo create a mental image.

"As for the men going out into the Baldric, that was more of Park's
diabolical work. In the walls of the barracks besides those lens
buttons were also miniature electro-hypnotic plates, with the master
controlling unit located in that valley. Park knew that when the miners
were in a drugged condition from the effects of the fever they would
be susceptible to the machine's lure.... And now, Billy-boy, are you
coming with me?"

"Coming with you?" I repeated. "Where?"

The old lady lit a cigarette. "Pluto maybe," she said. "There's a penal
colony there, you know, and that ought to tie in nicely with a new
crime story. I can see it now ... prison break, stolen rocket ship,
fugitives lurking in the interplanetary lanes...."

"Grannie," I laughed. "You're incorrigible!"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Double Trouble, by Carl Jacobi

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOUBLE TROUBLE ***

***** This file should be named 63442.txt or 63442.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/4/4/63442/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
