ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of Defense Mech, by Ray Bradbury

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Defense Mech

Author: Ray Bradbury

Release Date: November 06, 2020 [EBook #63648]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEFENSE MECH ***




                             DEFENSE MECH

                            By RAY BRADBURY

             Halloway stared down at Earth, and his brain
             tore loose and screamed, Man, man, how'd you
                get in a mess like this, in a rocket a
               million miles past the moon, shooting for
              Mars and danger and terror and maybe death.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1946.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Oh, my god, do you realize how far from Earth we are? Do you really
_think_ about it? It's enough to scare the guts from a man. Hold me up.
_Do_ something. Give me sedatives or hold my hand or run call mama. A
million cold miles up. See all the flickering stars? Look at my hands
tremble. Feel my heart whirling like a hot pinwheel!

The captain comes toward me, a stunned expression on his small, tight
face. He takes my arm, looking into my eyes. Hello, captain. I'm sick,
if that's what you want to know. I've a right to be scared--just look
at all that space! Standing here a moment ago, I stared down at Earth
so round and cloud-covered and asleep on a mat of stars, and my brain
tore loose and screamed, man, man, how'd you get in a mess like this,
in a rocket a million miles past the moon, shooting for Mars with a
crew of fourteen others! I can hardly stand up, my knees, my hands, my
heart, are shaking apart. Hold me up, sir.

What are hysterics like? The captain unprongs the inter-deck audio
and speaks swiftly, scowling, into it. I hope he's phoning the
psychiatrist. I need something. Oh, dammit, dammit!

The psychiatrist descends the ladder in immaculate salt-white uniform
and walks toward me in a dream. Hello, doctor. You're the one for me.
Please, sir, turn this damned rocket around and fly back to New York.
I'll go crazy with all this space and distance!

The psychiatrist and the captain's voices murmur and blend, with here
and there an emphasis, a toss of head, a gesture:

"Young Halloway here's on a fear-jag, doctor. Can you help him?"

"I'll try. Good man, Halloway is. Imagine you'll need him and his
muscles when we land."

"With the crew as small as it is, every man's worth his weight in
uranium. He's _got_ to be cured."

The psychiatrist shakes his head.

"Might have to squirt him full of drugs to keep him quiet the rest of
the expedition."

The captain explodes, saying that is impossible. Blood drums in my
head. The doctor moves closer, smelling clean, sharp and white.

"Please, understand, captain, this man is definitely psychotic about
going home. His talk is almost a reversion to childhood. I can't
refuse his demands, and his fear seems too deeply based for reasoning.
However, I think I've an idea. Halloway?"

Yes, sir? Help me, doctor. I want to go home. I want to see popcorn
exploding into a buttered avalanche inside a glass cube, I want to
roller skate, I want to climb into the old cool wet ice-wagon and go
_chikk-chikk-chikk_ on the ice with a sharp pick, I want to take long
sweating hikes in the country, see big brick buildings and bright-faced
people, fight the old gang, anything but this--_awful_!

The psychiatrist rubs his chin.

"All right, son. You can go back to Earth, now, tonight."

Again the captain explodes.

"You can't tell him _that_. We're landing on Mars _today_!"

The psychiatrist pats down the captain patiently.

"Please, captain. Well, Halloway, back to New York for you. How does it
sound?"

I'm not not so scared now. We're going down on the moving ladder and
here is the psychiatrist's cubicle.

He's pouring lights into my eyes. They revolve like stars on a disc.
Lots of strange machines around, attachments to my head, my ears.
Sleepy. Oh, so sleepy. Like under warm water. Being pushed around.
Laved. Washed. Quiet. Oh, gosh. Sleepy.

"--listen to me, Halloway--"

Sleepy. Doctor's talking. Very soft, like feathers. Soft, soft.

"--you're going to land on earth. No matter what they tell you, you're
landing on Earth ... no matter what happens you'll be on Earth ...
everything you see and do will be like on Earth ... remember that ...
remember that ... you won't be afraid because you'll be on Earth ...
remember that ... over and over ... you'll land on Earth in an hour ...
home ... home again ... no matter what anyone says...."

Oh, yes, sir, home again. Sleepy. Home again. Drifting, sleeping, oh
thank you, sir, thank you from the bottom of my drowsy, sleepy soul.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Sleepy. Drifting.

       *       *       *       *       *

I'm awake!

Hey, everybody, come look! Here comes Earth! Right at us, like a green
moss ball off a bat! Coming at us on a curve!

"Check stations! Mars landing!"

"Get into bulgers! Test atmosphere!"

Get into your _what_ did he say?

"Your baseball uniform, Halloway. Your baseball uniform."

Yes, sir. My baseball uniform. Where'd I put it? Over here. Head into,
legs into, feet into it. There. Ha, this is great! Pitch her in here,
old boy, old boy! _Smack!_ Yow!

Yes, sir, it's over in that metal locker. I'll take it out. Head, arms,
legs into it--I'm dressed. Baseball uniform. Ha! This is great! Pitch
'er in here, ole boy, ole boy! _Smack!_ Yow!

"Adjust bulger helmets, check oxygen."

What?

"Put on your catcher's mask, Halloway."

Oh. The mask slides down over my face. Like that. The captain comes
rushing up, eyes hot green and angry.

"Doctor, what's this infernal nonsense?"

"You wanted Halloway able to do his work, didn't you, captain?"

"Yes, but what in hell've you done to him?"

Strange. As they talk, I hear their words flow over my head like a wave
dashed on a sea-stone, but the words drain off, leaving no imprint. As
soon as some words invade my head, something eats and digests them and
I think the words are something else entirely.

The psychiatrist nods at me.

"I couldn't change his basic desire. Given time, yes, a period of
months, I could have. But you need him _now_. So, against all the known
ethics of my profession, which say one must never lie to a patient,
I've followed along in his own thought channel. I didn't dare frustrate
him. He wanted to go home, so I _let_ him. I've given him a fantasy.
I've set up a protective defense mechanism in his mind that refuses
to believe certain realities, that evaluates all things from its own
desire for security and home. His mind will automatically block any
thought or image that endangers that security."

The captain stares wildly.

"Then, then Halloway's insane!"

"Would you have him mad with fear, or able to work on Mars hindered by
only a slight 'tetched' condition? Coddle him and he'll do fine. Just
remember, we're landing on Earth, _not_ Mars."

"Earth, Mars, you'll have _me_ raving next!"

The doctor and the captain certainly talk weirdly. Who cares? Here
comes Earth! Green, expanding like a moist cabbage underfoot!

"Mars landing! Air-lock opened! Use bulger oxygen."

Here we go, gang! Last one out is a pink chimpanzee!

"Halloway, come back, you damn fool! You'll kill yourself!"

Feel the good sweet Earth! Home again! Praise the Lord! Let's dance,
sing off-key, laugh! Ha! Oh, boy!

In the door of the house stands the captain, his face red and wrinkled,
waving his fists.

"Halloway, come back! Look behind you, you fool!"

I whirl about and cry out, happily.

Shep! Shep, old dog! He comes running to meet me, long fur shining
amber in the sunshine. Barking. Shep, I haven't seen you in years. Good
old pooch. Come 'ere, Shep. Let me pet you.

The captain shrieks:

"Don't pet it! It looks like a carnivorous Martian worm. Man, the jaws
on that thing! Halloway, use your knife!"

Shep snarls and shows his teeth. Shep, what's wrong? That's no way to
greet me. Come on, Shep. Hey! I pull back my fingers as his swift jaws
snap. Shep circles me, swiftly. You haven't rabies, have you, Shep?
He darts in, snatches my ankle with strong, locking white teeth! Lord,
Shep, you're crazy! I can't let this go on. And you used to be such
a fine, beautiful dog. Remember all the hikes we took into the lazy
corn country, by the red barns and deep wells? Shep clenches tight my
ankle. I'll give him one more chance. Shep, _let go_! Where did this
long knife come from in my hand, like magic? Sorry to do this, Shep,
but--_there_!

Shep screams, thrashing, screams again. My arm pumps up and down, my
gloves are freckled with blood-flakes.

Don't scream, Shep. I _said_ I was sorry, didn't I?

"Get out there, you men, and bury that beast immediately."

I glare at the captain. Don't talk that way about Shep.

The captain stares at my ankle.

"Sorry, Halloway. I meant, bury that 'dog,' you men. Give him full
honors. You were lucky, son, another second and those knife-teeth'd
bored through your ankle-cuff metal."

I don't know what he means. I'm wearing sneakers, sir.

"Oh, yeah, so you are. Yeah. Well, I'm sorry, Halloway. I know how you
must feel about--Shep. He was a fine dog."

I think about it a moment and my eyes fill up, wet.

       *       *       *       *       *

There'll be a picnic and a hike; the captain says. Three hours now
the boys have carried luggage from the metal house. The way they
talk, this'll be some picnic. Some seem afraid, but who worries about
copperheads and water-moccasins and crawfish? Not me. No, sir. Not me.

Gus Bartz, sweating beside me on some apparatus, squints at me.

"What's eatin' you, Halloway?"

I smile. Me? Nothing. Why?

"You and that act with that Martian worm."

What're you talking about? What worm?

The captain interrupts, nervously.

"Bartz, lay off Halloway. The doctor'll explain why. Ask him."

Bartz goes away, scratching his head.

The captain pats my shoulder.

"You're our strong-arm man, Halloway. You've got muscles from working
on the rocket engines. So keep alert today, eh, on your hike to look
over the territory? Keep your--b.b. gun--ready."

Beavers, do you think, sir?

The captain swallows hard and blinks.

"Unh--oh, beavers, yeah, beavers. Sure. Beavers! Maybe. Mountain lions
and Indians, too, I hear. Never can tell. Be careful."

Mountain lions and Indians in New York in this day and age? Aw, sir.

"Let it go. Keep alert, anyhow. Smoke?"

I don't smoke, sir. A strong mind in a healthy body, you know the old
rule.

"The old rule. Oh, _yes_. The _old_ rule. Only joking. I don't want a
smoke anyway. Like hell."

What was that last, sir?

"Nothing, Halloway, carry on, carry on."

I help the others work, now. Are we taking the yellow street-car to the
edge of town, Gus?

"We're using propulsion belts, skimming low over the dead seas."

How's that again, Gus?

"I said, we're takin' the yellow street-car to the end of the line,
yeah."

We're ready. Everyone's packed, spreading out. We're going in groups of
four. Down Main Street past the pie factory, over the bridge, through
the tunnel, past the circus grounds and we'll rendezvous, says the
captain, at a place he points to on a queer, disjointed map.

_Whoosh!_ We're off! I forgot to pay my fare.

"That's okay, I paid it."

Thanks, captain. We're really traveling. The cypresses and the maples
flash by. _Kaawhoom!_ I wouldn't admit this to anyone but you, sir, but
momentarily, there, I didn't see this street-car. Suddenly we moved in
empty space, nothing supporting us, and I didn't see any car. But _now_
I see it, sir.

The captain gazes at me as at a nine-day miracle.

"You do, eh?"

Yes, sir. I clutch upward. Here's the strap. I'm holding it.

"You look pretty funny sliding through the air with your hand up like
that, Halloway."

How's that, sir?

"Ha, ha, ha!"

Why are the others laughing at me, sir?

"Nothing, son, nothing. Just happy, that's all."

_Ding Ding. Ding Ding._ Canal Street and Washington. _Ding Ding.
Whoosh._ This is real traveling. Funny, though, the captain and his men
keep moving, changing seats, never stay seated. It's a long street-car.
I'm way in back now. They're up front.

By the large brown house on the next corner stands a popcorn wagon,
yellow and red and blue. I can taste the popcorn in my mind. It's been
a long time since I've eaten some ... if I ask the captain's permission
to stop and buy a bag, he'll refuse. I'll just sneak off the car at the
next stop. I can get back on the next car and catch up with the gang
later.

       *       *       *       *       *

How do you stop this car? My fingers fumble with my baseball outfit,
doing something I don't want to know about. The car is stopping! Why's
that. Popcorn is more important.

I'm off the car, walking. Here's the popcorn machine with a man behind
it, fussing with little silver metal knobs.

"_--murr--lokk--loc--cor--iz--_"

_Tony!_ Tony, bambino! What are you doing here?

"_Click._"

It can't be, but it is. Tony, who died ten long years ago, when I was
a freckled kid! Alive and selling popcorn again. Oh, Tony, it's good
to see you. His black moustache's so waxed, so shining, his dark hair
like burnt oily shavings, his dark shining happy eyes, his smiling red
cheeks! He shimmers in my eyes like in a cold rain. Tony! Let me shake
your hand! Gimme a bag of popcorn, senor!

"_Click-click-click--sput-click--reeeeee-eeeeeeee--_"

The captain didn't see you, Tony, you were hidden so well, only _I_ saw
you. Just a moment while I search for my nickel.

"_Reeeeeee._"

Whew, I'm dizzy. It's very hot. My heads spins like a leaf on a storm
wind. Let me hold onto your wagon, Tony, quick, I'm shivering and I've
got sharp needle head pains....

"_Reeeeeeee._"

I'm running a temperature. I feel as if I have a torch hung flaming in
my head.

Hotter. Pardon me for criticizing you, Tony, but I think its your
popper turned up too high. Your face looks afraid, contorted, and your
hands move so rapidly, why? Can't you shut it off? I'm hot. Everything
melts. My knees sag.

Warmer still. He'd better turn that thing off, I can't take any more.
I can't find my nickel anyhow. Please, snap it off, Tony, I'm sick. My
uniform glows orange. I'll take fire!

Here, I'll turn it off for you, Tony.

You _hit_ me!

Stop hitting me, stop clicking those knobs! It's hot, I tell you. Stop,
or I'll--

Tony. Where are you? Gone.

Where did that purple flame shoot from? That loud blast, what was it?
The flame seemed to stream from my hand, out of my scout flashlight.
Purple flame--eating!

I smell a sharp bitter odor.

Like hamburger fried overlong.

I feel better now. Cool as winter. But--

Like a fly buzzing in my ears, a voice comes, faint, far off,

"Halloway, damn it, Halloway, where are you?"

Captain! It's his voice, sizzling. I don't see you, sir!

"Halloway, we're on the dead sea bottom near an ancient Martian city
and--oh, never mind, dammit, if you hear me, press your boy-scout badge
and yell!"

I press the badge intensely, sweating. Hey, captain!

"Halloway! Glory. You're _not_ dead. Where are you?"

I stopped for popcorn, sir. I can't see you. How do I hear you?

"It's an echo. Let it go. If you're okay, grab the next street-car."

That's very opportune. Because here comes a big red street-car now,
around the corner of the drug store.

"_What!_"

Yes, sir, and its chock full of people. I'll climb aboard.

"Wait a minute! Hold on! Murder! What _kind_ of people, dammit?"

It's the West Side gang. Sure. The whole bunch of tough kids.

"West side gang, hell, those are Martians, get the hell outa there!
Transfer to another car--take the subway! Take the elevated!"

Too late. The car's stopped. I'll have to get on. The conductor looks
impatient.

"Impatient," he says. "You'll be massacred!"

Oh, oh. Everybody's climbing from the street-car, looking angry at me.
Kelly and Grogan and Tompkins and the others. I guess there'll be a
fight.

The captain's voice stabs my ears, but I don't see him anywhere:

"Use your r-gun, your blaster, your blaster. Hell, use your slingshot,
or throw spitballs, or whatever the devil you imagine you got holstered
there, but _use_ it! Come on, men, about face and back!"

I'm outnumbered. I bet they'll gang me and give me the bumps, the
bumps, the bumps. I bet they'll truss me to a maple tree, maple tree,
maple tree and tickle me. I bet they'll ink-tattoo their initials on my
forehead. Mother won't like this.

The captain's voice opens up louder, driving nearer:

"And Poppa ain't happy! Get outa there, Halloway!"

They're hitting me, sir! We're battling!

"Keep it up, Halloway!"

I knocked one down, sir, with an upper-cut. I'm knocking another down
now. Here goes a third! Someone's grabbed my ankle. I'll kick him!
_There!_ I'm stumbling, falling! Lights in my eyes, purple ones, big
purple lightning bolts sizzling the air!

Three of them vanished, just like that!

I think they fell down a manhole.

I'm sorry. I didn't mean to hurt them bad.

They stole my flashlight.

"Get it back, Halloway! We're coming. Get your flash and use it!"
That's silly.

"Silly," he says. "Silly. Silly."

       *       *       *       *       *

I got my flashlight back, broken, no good. We're wrestling. There are
so many of them, I'm weak. They're climbing all over me, hitting. It's
not fair, I'm falling down, kicking, screaming!

"Up speed, men, full power!"

They're binding me up. I can't move. They're rushing me into the
street-car now. Now I won't be able to go on that hike. And I planned
on it so hard, too.

"_Here we are, Halloway! Blast 'em, men! Oh, my Lord, look at the
horrible faces on those creatures! Guh!_"

Watch out, captain! They'll get you, too, and the others! _Ahh!_
Somebody struck me on the back of my head. Darkness. Dark. Dark.

Rockabye baby on the tree-top ... when the wind blows....

"Okay, Halloway, _any_ time. Just any old time you want to come to."

Dark. A voice talking. Dark as a whale's insides. Ouch, my head. I'm
flat on my back, I can feel rocks under me.

"Good morning, _dear_ Mr. Halloway."

That you, captain, over in that dark corner?

"It ain't the president of the United States!"

Where is this cave?

"Suppose _you_ tell us, you got us into this mess with your eternally
blasted popcorn! Why'd you get off the street-car?"

Did the West Side gang truss us up like this, captain?

"West Side gang, _goh_! Those faces, those inhuman, weird, unsavory and
horrible faces. All loose-fleshed and--gangrenous. Aliens, the whole
rotting clutch of 'em."

What a funny way to talk.

"Listen, you parboiled idiot, in about an hour we're going to be fried,
gutted, iced, killed, slaughtered, murdered, we will be, ipso facto,
dead. Your 'friends' are whipping up a little blood-letting jamboree.
Can't I shove it through your thick skull, we're on Mars, about to be
sliced and hammered by a lousy bunch of Martians!"

"Captain, sir?"

"Yes, Berman?"

"The cave door is opening, sir. I think the Martians are ready to have
at us again, sir. Some sort of test or other, no doubt."

"Let go a me, you one-eyed monster! I'm coming, don't push!"

We're outside the cave. They're cutting our bonds. See, captain, they
aren't hurting us, after all. Here's the brick alley. There's Mrs.
Haight's underwear waving on the clothes-line. See all the people from
the beer hall--what're they waiting for?

"To see us die."

"Captain, what's wrong with Halloway, he's acting queer--"

"At least he's better off than us. He can't see these creatures' faces
and bodies. It's enough to turn a man's stomach. This must be their
amphitheatre. That looks like an obstacle course. I gather from their
sign lingo that if we make it through the obstacles, we're free.
Footnote: nobody's ever gotten through alive yet. Seems they want you
to go first, Berman. Good luck, boy."

"So long, captain. So long, Gus. So long, Halloway."

Berman's running down-alley with an easy, long-muscled stride. I hear
him yelling high and clear, even though he's getting far away.

Here comes an automobile!

Berman! Ahh! It hit him! He's fallen!

Berman, get up, get up!

"Stay here, Halloway, it's not your turn yet."

My turn? What do you mean? Someone's gotta help Berman.

"Halloway, come back! Oh, man, I don't want to see this!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Lift up my legs, put them down, breathe out, breathe in, swing arms,
swing legs, chew my tongue, blink my eyes, Berman, here I come, gee,
things are crazy-funny, here comes an ice-wagon trundling along,
it's coming right at _me_! I can't see to get around it, it's coming
so fast, I'll jump inside it, jump, jump, cool, ice, ice-pick,
_chikk-chikk-chikk_, I hear the captain screaming off a million hot
miles gone, _chikk-chikk-chikk_ around the ice perimeter, the ice
wagon is thundering, rioting, jouncing, shaking, rolling on big
rusty iron wheels, smelling of sour ammonia, bouncing on a corduroy
dirt and brick alley-road, the rear end of it seems to be snapping
shut with many ice-prongs, I feel intense pain in my left leg,
_chikk-chikk-chikk-chikk_! piece of ice, cold square, cold cube, a
shuddering and convulsing, a temblor, the wagon wheels stop rolling, I
jump down and run away from the wrecked wagon, did the wagon roll over
Berman, I hope not, a fence here, I'll jump over it, another popcorn
machine, very warm, very hot, all flame and red fire and burning metal
knobs....

Oops, I didn't mean to strike the popcorn man down, hello, Berman,
what're you doing in my arms, how'd you get here, did I pick you up,
and why? an obstacle race at the high-school? you're heavy, I'm tired,
dogs nipping at my heels, how far am I supposed to carry you? I hear
the captain screaming me on, for why, for why? here comes the big bad
truant officer with a club in his hand to take me back to school, he
looks mean and broad....

I kicked the truant officer's shins and kicked him in the face ...
Mama won't like that ... yes, mommy ... no mommy ... that's unfair ...
that's not ethical fighting ... something went squish ... hmm ... let's
forget about it, shall we?

Breathing hard. Here comes the gang after me, all the rough, bristly
Irishmen and scarred Norwegians and stubborn Italians ... hit, kick,
wrestle ... here comes a swift car, fast, fast! I hope I can duck, with
you, Berman ... here comes another car from the opposite way!... If I
work things right ... uh ... stop screaming, Berman!

The cars crashed into each other.

The cars still roll, tumbling, like two animals tearing at each other's
throats.

Not far to go now, Berman, to the end of the alley. Just ahead.
I'll sleep for forty years when this is over ... where'd I get this
flashlight in my hand? from one of those guys I knocked down? from
the popcorn man? I'll poke it in front of me ... people run away ...
maybe they don't like its light in their eyes.... The end of the alley!
There's the green valley and my house, and there's Mom and Pop waiting!
Hey, let's sing, let's dance, we're going home!

"Halloway, you so-and-so, you did it!"

Dark. Sleep. Wake up slow. Listen.

"--and Halloway ran down that amphitheatre nonchalant as a high-school
kid jumping hurdles. A big saffron Martian beast with a mouth so damn
big it looked like the rear end of a delivery truck, lunged forward
square at Halloway--"

"What'd Halloway do?"

"Halloway jumped right inside the monster's mouth--right inside!"

"What happened then?"

"The animal looked dumbfounded. It tried to spit out. Then, to top it
all, what did Halloway do, I ask you, I ask you, what did he do? He
drew forth his boy-scout blade and went _chikk-chikk-chikk_ all around
the bloody interior, pretending like he's holed up in an ice-wagon,
chipping himself off pieces of ice."

"No?"

"On my honor! The monster, after taking a bit of this
_chikk-chikk-chikk_ business, leaped around, cavorting, floundering,
rocking, tossing, and then, with a spout of blood, out popped Halloway,
grinning like a kid, and on he ran, dodging spears and pretending they
were pebbles, leaping a line of crouched warriors and saying they're
a picket fence. Then he lifted Berman and trotted with him until he
met a three hundred pound Martian wrestler. Halloway supposed that
it was the truant officer and promptly kicked him in the face. Then
he knocked down another guy working furiously at the buttons of a
paralysis machine which looked, to Halloway, like a popcorn wagon!
After which two gigantic black Martian leopards attacked, resembling
to him nothing more than two very bad drivers in dark automobiles.
Halloway sidestepped. The two 'cars' crashed and tore each other apart,
fighting. Halloway pumped on, shooting people with his 'flashlight'
which he retrieved from the 'popcorn' man. Pointing the flash at
people, he was amazed when they vanished and--oh, oh, Halloway's waking
up, I saw his eyelids flicker. Quiet, everyone. Halloway, you awake?"

Yeah. I been listening to you talk for five minutes. I still don't
understand. Nothing happened at all. How long I been asleep?

"Two days. Nothing happened, eh? Nothing, except you got the Martians
kow-towing, that's all, brother. Your spectacular performance impressed
people. The enemy suddenly decided that if _one_ earthman could do what
you did, what would happen if a million more came?"

Everybody keeps on with this joking, this lying about Mars. Stop it.
Where am I?

"Aboard the rocket, about to take off."

Leave Earth? No, no, I don't want to leave Earth, good green Earth! Let
go! I'm afraid! Let go of me! Stop the ship!

"Halloway, _this_ is Mars--we're going back _to_ Earth."

Liars, all of you! I don't want to go to Mars, I want to stay here, on
Earth!

"Holy cow, here we go again. Hold him down, Gus. Hey, doctor, on the
double! Come help Halloway change his mind back, willya!"

_Liars! You can't do this! Liars! Liars!_

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEFENSE MECH ***

***** This file should be named 63648-0.txt or 63648-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/6/4/63648/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

