ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of Survival, by Basil Wells

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Survival

Author: Basil Wells

Release Date: November 07, 2020 [EBook #63663]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SURVIVAL ***




                               SURVIVAL

                            By BASIL WELLS

              Mindless creatures mewled and grovelled in
           the streets of Ohio ... and men found themselves
             suddenly in the swampy, alien hell of Venus,
                fighting a weird battle for existence.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1946.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The experiment flopped, or perhaps, more accurately speaking, it
succeeded only too well.

The theory had been that of plucking the ego from one human domicile
and transplanting it, temporarily of course, into the brain of another
man--or animal. The machine had been built for the same purpose.

Circuits shorted and the resultant blast of power killed Doctor Brixson
and his elderly assistant, Elmer Morgus. And outward the circle of
unleashed power extended for a mile from Crayton College.

The egos, wrenched from their rightful places, went hurtling outward
into space on the light-speeding wave of the blast and contacted that
of life on our sister planet, Venus. And mindless things grovelled and
mewled in the streets of Crayton, Ohio....

Only since the _Malcolm's_ successful voyage to Venus, recently, has
the full story of that catastrophe been known. From the lips of the
rubbery hided, hideous Venusians who came to Earth aboard the spacer we
learned the truth.

This, then is the story of those Earthlings flung into that swampy
alien hell of a world by the freakish blast of an experimental
patchwork of wires, tubes, and odd scraps of quartz. It is the tale of
their battle for survival in a sodden unfriendly environment:

Glade Masson, timid, myopic history professor at Crayton College,
jerked his head from the dank grayish ooze of the hollow where he lay.
His eyes snapped wide as he examined the foggy outlines of bushes and
twisting vines surrounding him. Further than the length of two bodies
he could not see.

"'Lo," a croaking voice mumbled from close by.

Masson looked up into the blinking round dark eyes of the alien
creature. He examined the naked human-shaped animal curiously as he
came to his feet.

That the strange being was intelligent he realized at once; the sharp
dagger of splintered bone depending from a cross band of mildewed hide
told him that. But the noseless, broad-joweled face; the hairless slick
grayness of the froglike body, shading to a dark purple around the two
eyes and the generous slit of a mouth; the webbed hands and feet, and
the drooping pointed ears were anything but human.

"A frog!" he gasped, amazed, "an intelligent batrachian!" He rubbed his
hand across his eyes, and arrested the motion.

_His_ hand was webbed and gray! He had six fingers instead of five!
And his sleek body was naked save for the crossed belts of ridged hide
supporting his own two daggers.

Masson belched. This strange new body of his had dined on fish he
discovered, and probably very overripe fish at that. He flexed his
thick gray arms, admiring the ripple of sleek hard muscle. Blood was
pumping and throbbing through his body with the excitement of the
moment. For almost the first time in his forty years of myopic boyhood
and timid manhood Glade Masson felt alive.

Luxuriantly the man from Earth stretched. He saw an expression that he
took to be amazement cross the strange being's features. The purple
deepened around the other male's sunken nostrils.

"I," the frog man said, "am Doctor John Lawler!"

Masson's mouth dropped open. What must have happened back there in
Crayton? His last memory was of a horrible wrenching at his delicate
stomach, and then an abrupt blacking out of the auditorium. Apparently
his ego, and that of Doctor Lawler as well, had by some mysterious
means been exchanged with that of these froglike beings.

Suddenly he smiled. This was probably another of his nightmares. He
would shut his eyes, pinch himself hard, and command himself to awaken.

He pinched. He heard Lawler screech in terror. Slowly he opened his
eyes.

An ugly beast, a reptilian monster of scales and gaping tooth-lined
snout, came lumbering toward him on stubby crooked legs. Ten feet in
length was the alligator-like saurian, its lumpy black plates sprouting
an ugly ridge of yellowish spines along its back down to its broad flat
tail.

Masson took to his heels. He bounded away across the springy carpet of
water-logged vines after the fading sounds of the Doctor's spurting
webbed feet.

Fog closed in around him. Twice he fell into seemingly bottomless pools
of water and his alien body surfaced him instinctively and dragged
him ashore so he could continue his flight. No longer did he hear the
running feet of Doctor Lawler; yet he continued to run.

So it was that he came into a section of the vine-floored mistiness
where stubby leafy-boled shrubs grew from the spongy soil, and as he
approached closer to the pale-leaved little trees, he heard the excited
babble of slurred half-familiar words. He looked more closely at the
trees then, to discover that just above his head a thatch of living
vines, leaves and grasses topped each pulpy yellowish trunk.

Gray faces, hideous and limp of ear, peered down at him. He had come
across a village of the frog people! From the trees of this sunless
foggy jungle they had fashioned shelters of a sort.

As his breathing eased he could hear them more plainly. No wonder their
speech sounded familiar, he realized, they were speaking English!
Lawler and he were not alone then. Probably all of Crayton was
here--possibly all of Ohio!

"I tell you," that was Charles Ellis, the chemistry department head,
"I'm positive this is not Earth. May sound crazy to you, but I'm sure
this is the planet Venus."

Masson nodded his head in agreement, but some of the other men snorted
their disgust.

"Impossible," grunted one scarred old frog-man, blinking his one good
eye and flapping his ears at a persistent buzzing insect winging
around his hairless skull. "I say this must be the Amazon River
country--though how we came here I wouldn't know."

"No familiar fauna and flora," Ellis said shrugging. "Nope. I disagree.
The only logical choice is Venus or perhaps a similar environment in
another dimensional plane." He got to his feet and walked across the
rough floor of the large hut toward the descending ladder of lashed
poles. "But I'll not argue with you," he concluded. "We must hang
together now as never before."

       *       *       *       *       *

Masson followed his friend down the ladder. As he descended into the
misty sea of fog he regarded the changed village that a score of this
watery world's days had seen created. The boles of the trees had been
utilized as foundation piles for more substantial and water-tight
structures, and now the two thousand and twenty-nine exiles from Earth
were well-housed.

"This is the reality, Charles," Masson said, his wide sunken nostrils
drinking deep of the thick moist air. "Already our life back on Earth
seems an unpleasant dream. Here the swamplands furnish us food in
plenty and the temperature seldom varies more than a few degrees."

The steady dark eyes of Ellis regarded Masson seriously. Then he
lifted the crude spear, bone-tipped and heavy, and touched the curved
projection of the bow above his shoulder.

"Three times," he said, "we have been attacked by hostile natives. Only
our superior weapons have given us the advantage." He paused. "The next
time we may not be so lucky. The frogs may have copied our spears and
bows.

"That is the reason we must not be satisfied. We must build machines
and better weapons for our own protection. Here on Venus we are but a
handful of aliens surrounded by millions of hostile savages."

Masson grunted doubtfully. "With what," he inquired, "are we to build
machines? All the islands that we have visited by raft or swimming are
like this one--soggy floating atolls of thidin vines and nik-nik brush.
The natives have no metal weapons; even flint seems unknown."

Ellis rammed his webbed gray hand down into the pouch that hung at his
side. When it emerged again a sharp fragment of black glassy rock lay
in his palm. He grinned at Masson's amazement.

"One of the Frogs," he said, "that we captured yesterday had this on a
loop of leather around his neck. With the few words we have learned and
signs I learned that a mountain of this material lies toward the east."

"Land!" was all Masson could gasp. Reverently he fingered the bit of
glassy obsidian. His eyes blinked with excitement and his grotesque
slash of a mouth quivered.

"What are we waiting for?" he demanded eagerly. "Let's get going."

Ellis laughed tolerantly. "The island lies some distance away," he
said. "We will need good rafts, or, better, canoes. Hostile natives
probably live in the mud-lands surrounding the island."

"Let's get to work on it then," urged Glade Masson. "We can kill a lot
of these alligator-jawed vallids and use their skins for boat covering.
The Eskimos do that. And we can make shields of their hides, too. We'll
need extra arrows, food, and other supplies."

"Go to it," laughed Ellis. "Ten or fifteen of the younger men will
probably want to go along." He blinked his round black eyes solemnly.
"And you're the guy that was satisfied with things as they are."

       *       *       *       *       *

The little flotilla of skin-covered canoes threaded its way among the
misty islets of pale green thidin vines. Ten of the unwieldy craft
there were, and in all save the two larger boats two powerfully muscled
Frogs sat. The larger boats carried three paddlers and were well-laden
with dried vallid flesh, broiled thidin shoots, and heaps of the
scarlet-mottled orange nik-nik fruit.

"Hear about Susan Martin?" inquired Ellis as he dipped his paddle
rhythmically into the sullen waters of the mist-shrouded sea.

"Nope." Masson's head did not turn. His canoe was leading the
expedition. "Heard she was visiting Crayton, but never heard what
happened to her."

"Always lecturing about birth control and child psychology," chuckled
Ellis. "As uncompromising a spinster as ever I met. Well, that's all
changed now. She finds herself with a family of seven young Frogs on
her hands."

"Whew!" gasped Masson. "Bet she hates that."

"Oddly enough," the chemistry instructor said, "she's taking to being
a mother enthusiastically. Her seven little Frogs will be the neatest,
best-scrubbed, insufferable little prigs in all New Crayton--even old
Joe Hansel, the ex-town drunkard. He's her next-to-the youngest son."

Masson shook his hairless gray head thoughtfully. The mystery of
the switching of his neighbors' and friends' egos with the former
inhabitants of these tough gray bodies never ceased to amaze him. The
former sex of their transferred intelligences had been preserved, but
not their age.

"Something like Cunningham, the campus heart-breaker," he said. "Only
he ended up an old, hideously wrinkled Frog."

"And a good end for him," cried Ellis warmly, "he was...."

"Ssst," warned Masson peering along a steaming tunnel of vision that a
chance breath of moist air had opened. "A raft, and half a dozen Frogs!"

They relayed the word back to the seven smaller craft and four of them
swiftly drew abreast of the canoe of Masson and Ellis. The other three
canoes remained to guard the cargo boats with their three paddlers.

"We'll investigate," ordered Masson softly. "Unless they attack, do not
harm them. With the few words of their language we have learned perhaps
we can find where the rocky island is located."

"Fat chance," growled the huge-shouldered scarred young Frog whose name
was Dolan. "They attack and talk later."

"Those are orders," said Masson firmly, his eyes boring into those of
the other. "When you elected me leader of this expedition I took full
control. Suggestions I will listen to, but you must follow orders!"

Dolan's eyes wavered. "I didn't say nothing," he grunted.

Two canoes slipped silently away to the left and the other two sped
toward the right. Masson continued straight ahead toward the raft.

Suddenly the mist parted. The foggy outlines of a half-dozen Frogs were
revealed. And across the crudely plaited surface of the raft of buoyant
thidin stalks lay the bound body of a young female Frog. Masson had
time to see that the female wore a brief skirt and confining band of
beaten vegetable fiber--a woman stolen from their own village of New
Crayton--before the natives hurled their lumpy cudgels of nik-nik at
him.

He ducked. The clubs missed, only one of them thudding into the
hide-bound gunwale beside him, and then the frog men had plunged into
the familiar medium of the warm sea. They swam swiftly toward the two
men in the boat, their bone knives in their powerful webbed fists.

Masson hurled his spear at one of them. A gurgling cry of pain attested
to the accuracy of his aim. He saw Ellis' spear leap forward and bury
itself in the sea, and then his bow was in his hands and the bowstring
swiftly nocking into the bone-tipped shaft of an arrow. But the frog
men were upon them.

The other canoes converged then. Arrows frothed the water around the
swimming savages. Blood dyed the water with shifting red. And the
ghastly coils of glistening snake-like things of the deep, attracted
by the blood, fought for the bodies. The water boiled into frenzy as
shark-like fish came also and battled with the coiling scavengers of
the deep. The canoes rocked and threatened to swamp despite the frantic
paddling of the men.

All of the Frogs were dead, but their raft bobbed, unharmed, outward
from the seething cauldron of fighting monsters. The bound woman
watched with fearful eyes as Masson and Ellis paddled closer, and then
she cried out with joy as she saw their weapons and the simple breech
clouts.

"Thank God," she gasped, as Masson stepped aboard and freed her bonds.
She chafed gently at the swollen flesh where her gray-skinned legs and
arms had been bound.

       *       *       *       *       *

Masson swallowed. Hideous though she might have been by any Earthly
standards, to him she was beautiful. Her body was firm and shapely and
her eyes were soft and liquid. And in his body there coursed the blood
of the Frog People. Already he was forgetting the standards of beauty
back on Earth. Grace, strength, and the clean-cut planes of the body
are the secret of loveliness.

"I cannot blame them for stealing you," he said, thick-tongued. "I have
not seen you before in New Crayton. Who are you?"

"Irene Croft," she said, smiling. "And you, I know, are Glade Masson. I
saw you working on these canoes before I was captured."

The ex-instructor of history felt his mouth drop open. This most
charming of all females he had seen on Venus was Irene Croft? Croft,
the slab-sided, bony woman who had taught languages at Crayton
College--the fussy old maid without a saving grace or charm save her
intelligence and quick understanding? They had been good friends back
there on Earth, but now--well, friendship would not be enough.

"Irene," he said enthusiastically, "you're a--a--honey."

His face turned purple as she smiled her gracious acceptance of his
compliment. Words gurgled impotently in his throat as he helped her
aboard the canoe.

"Son," said Charles Ellis gruffly, "you've got it bad. And," he scowled
at the trim figure sitting between them, "I don't blame you."

This time it was Irene's face and neck that purpled delicately.

"Sorry we can't take you back to New Crayton," said Masson, his grin
anything but sorry, "but we must be almost to the rocky island we are
hunting."

The girl flashed a quick smile at Masson, a smile that would have given
the ordinary Earthman a series of nightmares. "You are right about the
island," she said. "I have picked up a fair knowledge of the speech of
the Butrads."

"So that's what they call themselves," broke in Ellis. "Sorry, Miss
Croft. Go on."

"The island is called Tular," she said. "They were taking me there to
give me as a bride to the God-From-the-Clouds, as I translated it,
but I feel sure that I was to be sacrificed in some ghastly religious
fashion."

"From-Clouds," Ellis was musing. "Probably a meteorite." His face
brightened. "A meteorite may mean iron!" he cried.

Masson's paddle dipped steadily into the murky waters of the cast sea
that covers all Venus. Floating miniature islets of thidin swirled
past, islets that some day might grow to be huge, matted sub-continents
of green life. Ghostly islands of thidin, their swampy floors giving
root to the stocky trees and shrubs of the Venusian jungle growth,
loomed out of the endless blanket of fog. The throaty deep roar of the
scaly vallids and the splash of their bodies broke the thick silence.

"And iron means machines, and weapons," he said thoughtfully, without
turning around. "Machines--and plows. Weapons--and hoes. We will build
factories, but we will also build homes."

Irene's voice cut across their musings. "Supposing the meteor is not
iron?" she demanded.

"The sea is full of metal," said Ellis doggedly. "We will take
magnesium from it. We did it on Earth. And the island will contain
metal--it must."

"Spears!" called Masson unexpectedly, and then, tersely, "vallids just
ahead."

The canoes slowed and sheered off from the pulpy underwater shelf of
the island Masson had almost rammed. Hundreds of the scaly monsters
floated sleepily in the water, their yellow spines and bulging eyes
carpeting the shallow depths for several acres. Ashore dozens of others
crawled about on their stubby bowed legs searching for the tasty
vegetable tidbits that their saurian palates desired.

Luckily none of the vallids saw them, or if they did they were not
interested, and they backed water until the eternal low-lying clouds of
the wet planet shielded their ungainly craft from view. They commenced
paddling cautiously away toward the right only to again encounter the
shore of an island swarming with the ugly snouted saurians.

At intervals they attempted to proceed again in the direction they had
been heading but always they encountered more vallids and the low-lying
shore of an island. An idea was beginning to dawn in Masson's
gray-skinned skull. This must be a larger island than any they had
before encountered.

"Perhaps," he said, as the other canoes drew abreast, "this is the
shore of Tular. There would be swamplands and mud flats if it were.
Thidin would grow up about the central mountain."

A slim-faced frog man named Reppart nodded. "Probably you're right," he
agreed. "Never saw so many vallids before." He shrugged his shoulders.
"But how do we get through them to the land?"

"Should be a river." Ellis was dipping out the water that the ceaseless
heavy mist of rain poured into the boat. He gestured with the hollow
gourd-shaped husk of a nik-nik fruit. "We follow the river in."

"But we have found no river," sneered Dolan. "What now, General Masson?"

Irene Croft's softer voice cut across their conversation.

"But we _have_ found the river," she said. "See the current pushing out
toward us from the island? And the color of the water is different,
grayer."

"You're right," cried Masson exultantly. He picked up his paddle and
sent the canoe probing forward into the thick murk of the cloudy wall
ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three, or perhaps four miles the men from Earth paddled upstream along
a mile-wide channel that carried the steady surge of the river seaward.
They came at last to the first waterfall, a low rocky shelf that lifted
but five feet above the green floor of swampy thidin vines and the
grayish ooze that floored them.

The firmness of rock was welcome underfoot. The slow darkness of the
Venusian night was falling and so they made their camp on a level shelf
of rock a few hundred feet back from the waterfall's muted roar.

And with morning they pushed onward up the river.

The stream forked a mile above the first waterfall. They chose the
larger stream on the right and paddled between low sullen black cliffs
of basalt for perhaps another three miles. Here a lake spread outward
fanwise from three giant cataracts that boomed and frothed as they
poured over a sheer hundred-foot precipice.

"Power," said Masson. "Power enough for a dozen Pittsburghs. Power to
light all the cities of Earth."

"This is a large island," Ellis nodded. "Such a volume of water
requires an enormous watershed." He smiled confidently. "There will be
metal here. This will be the home of our children."

Masson found his hand had unconsciously clasped that of Irene. He
pressed the velvety softness of the webbed fingers and the woman's eyes
lifted curiously to his own. A steady, intense glow burned far back in
their depths. Her lips parted, unsmiling.

"Our children," he whispered softly, and her eyes dropped as purple
spread slowly upward from her rounded firm neck.

She pressed his hand timidly; dropped it, and started up the rocky
ledge that led from the lake's left-hand shore. And behind her climbed
the frog men from the village of New Crayton.

Their canoes they had concealed in the tangled jungle growth. From here
their feet would have to serve--their feet and the tough sandals of
vallid hide that they now donned for the first time.

The sheer escarpment gave way to a vast level plain of jungle growth
and swampy reeds. The jungle was almost impenetrable and so they
decided to swim up the river. The eternal clouds of Venus seemed to
have thinned as they climbed for now they stood within a grayish dome
that extended a hundred feet or more on every hand.

As they approached the river they saw a huge raft of thidin bound about
with sturdy vegetable withes and having a score of sturdy poles lashed
to its rough surface. But for the increased range of their vision they
would have missed the man-made little island.

Masson trimmed the green shoots that were already sprouting from the
pole he had chosen. His bone knife broke as he hacked at a tough sprout.

"With our first iron," he said, "I will make an axe. The axe and the
machete are the first tools of civilization."

Twice they climbed past mighty waterfalls again. They came, at last, to
the fertile central plateau that stretched for three hundred miles away
to the north and south and a third of that distance before them.

Four native villages they passed and four times Irene used her
meager command of the Butrads' tongue to tell them that they were on
pilgrimage to the God-From-The-Clouds, and that she was to be the god's
bride. Apparently the ordinary inter-tribal warfare of the Butrads was
held in abeyance where the God-From-The-Clouds was concerned.

They crossed park-like country, where beneath the pale-green trees a
tough spear-bladed grass grew, and they slept at night in the shelter
of broad-leaved trees that roofed over several acres of ground so
completely that there were patches of dusty earth.

Masson sent Dillen, Marcy, Reppart, and Dolan back to report to the
settlement at New Crayton. He advised that as many families as possible
be ferried across the sea to Tular. Here on the upper plateau would be
their new world.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day after the four messengers had left they came to the
God-From-The-Clouds.

An ancient crater housed the god, a low-rimmed bowl five miles in
diameter. The jungle had crept over the outer walls and far down
the inner slopes to the edge of the lake within. The trail they
followed ended abruptly at a cliff on whose brink a triangular block
of greenish-black basalt rested. There were mounds of rounded white
objects, human skulls, about the rough altar, but the broken white
skeletons of the sacrifices lay thick about the god far below.

Irene shuddered. She hid her head on Masson's chest. "The brides of
their god," she sobbed, "brides of the machine."

The god of the Butrads of Venus was a huge crumpled ball of metal--a
space ship from some distant world!

A distant and alien world the battered craft must have come from, for
the corridors and cabins were too small for the froglike bodies of the
Earthmen to pass. Yet the space ship was gigantic by any standard--a
quarter of a mile in diameter. There were strange corroded weapons and
machines whose use the Earthmen could not fathom. There was sealed
cargo--food that even yet was edible after long years of exposure to
the heat and humidity of the Venusian upland.

The ship was a veritable storehouse of precious metals and equipment.
Ellis set to work at once designing a dynamo and drew plans for a
machine shop to be set up in a nearby cavern. Masson took two of the
men and examined the defensive possibilities of the crater's upper
rim--he feared the reaction of the Frogs when they learned of this
desecration of the God-From-The-Clouds. Irene put two of the men at
work clearing out another cave for a kitchen and sleeping rooms, and
Gilroy, who had been a farmer, cruised the rich lava-fed flat along the
lake's rain-speckled shore.

Busy days and nights passed. They lost all track of time. No word came
from New Crayton but they were so busy they paid no heed. The waterfall
that fed the crater lake now turned a dynamo, and electricity worked
its magic. At the two passes that permitted descent into the crater
guards were now posted, armed with crude muskets and grenades, and the
signal that was to mark the approach of the party from New Crayton was
three spaced shots.

"They are coming at last," cried Irene. The third shot echoed soddenly
through the thick air. She tugged at Masson's arm. "We must go to meet
them."

Laughing they raced up the trail from the crater's green depths to
the high wall where the sentry stood guard. They stood beside him,
breathless, for a moment. Then Masson's hand went out impulsively to
the shoulder of the man.

"Gilroy, man!" he cried. "What is it?"

The guard's drooping shoulders straightened. Bitterly his webbed hand
pointed.

A handful of Butrads, men from New Crayton by their arms and clothing,
tramped wearily nearer. Masson counted them--thirty-three men. As he
watched one of them dropped suddenly, an arrow in his back. Then for
the first time did he see the misty shapes of the pursuers of this
exhausted band.

They raced forward, hundreds of them, the naked froglike savages of
the lower river villages. Another of the hunted men dropped and Masson
jerked the gun from Gilroy's hands and trained it on the horde of
charging Butrads.

He fired. The sound of the shot, rather than the bullet, arrested the
enemy advance momentarily. From the harried little knot of men a faint
cheer lifted and their pace quickened. A moment later Gilroy swung open
the thick narrow gate and was helping the first of them through. Masson
lobbed a grenade far out toward the island Frogs and they shrank yet
farther away.

"Did our best." That was Reppart sobbing out his story. "Three hundred
of us ... rest of them decided to live easy back on the island....
Maybe they wasn't too dumb either....

"Anyhow the Frogs hit us at the first waterfall.... Finished off most
of the women and children there.... We fought them all along the
river ... rest of the women died there.... Eighty of us reached the
plateau."

"And thirty of you are left," finished Masson soberly. His round eyes
blazed hot. "Fifty of us to conquer a watery jungle world. Fifty men
against a planet."

He shook a knotted gray fist at the hostile natives. "There'll be no
more contact with New Crayton," he said. "We cannot risk more of our
manpower in futile warfare if we are to build a worthy civilization for
our children. This crater must be our world for many years."

One of the men laughed bitterly, and then great racking sobs shook his
stocky gray body.

"Children!" he cried. "All our children lie out there, unborn. Among us
all there is only your woman."

Glade Masson swept his arm out toward the seething mob of the Butrads.
"There are your children," he said. "The natives have daughters and
sisters. Their blood is that of our own bodies. They will bear us
children. We and our children will conquer and rule the water wastes of
Venus." He paused for a long moment.

"To survive," he said flatly, "we must fight with all means at our
command. We must steal, we must kill, and we must work. If we do not
steal the females of the Butrads, Earth's culture and wisdom will
shortly vanish. If we do not kill we will be killed."

The round dark eyes of the listening Earthmen brightened with new hope.
Croaking sounds of approval issued from their ugly slashes of mouth.
And hopeless sloping shoulders straightened.

       *       *       *       *       *

So it was that they raided the villages of the Frogs again and again.
The females of the surrounding uplands proved to be intelligent, and
shortly most of them were happy in the safety and comfort of the
building town of the Earthmen.

They mated with the men and learned the strange customs and speech of
their captors.

But there was trouble looming ahead. As the months passed and the eggs
of the females failed to hatch Masson and Ellis realized that their
little colony was doomed to extinction.

"The women tell the same story, Glade," said Ellis, his nervous webbed
fingers drumming at the table in his tiny office.

Masson looked out through the window at the men moving about their
tasks in the factory and further down beside the lake, in the fields.
They worked listlessly, hopelessly. What was there to work for now?

"So the old women of the tribes carried the eggs away and hid them?"
Masson rubbed the unlovely flesh of his jowls thoughtfully. "They were
forbidden to follow. Taboo or something of the sort. And then the old
females brought back the young ones?"

"Could be, of course," said Ellis doubtfully, "that they are concealing
the truth. Lying to us." He shook his head. "But I doubt it. Most of
them are glad to be safe here where raiding tribes and the more vicious
saurians cannot reach them. They learn fast, too," he added.

"Nothing to do," Masson said grimly, "but for me to trail the old
women. I'll take Dolan. He's never satisfied unless he's prowling the
jungles outside the crater."

"I'm going, too," Ellis began, but Masson shook his head.

"Your knowledge of chemistry and metallurgy are needed here," he said.
"If I am lost you can carry on, but you are the only living text book
available."

And he overrode the other's protests.

Later in the day Masson and Dolan slipped out through the barrier at
the crater's rim and made their way toward the nearest Butrad village.
They took with them plenty of ammunition and supplies, for they
expected to be gone for many days.

"There they go, Glade!" Joe Dolan's scarred face twisted in a hideous
parody of a grin.

They lay in the lush oozy bed of rotted growth above the shallow ravine
where the Frog village lay. Nik-nik brush and giant broad-leaved grass
of mottled yellow and green concealed them from the eyes of the Butrads
in the ugly huddle of elevated huts below.

"Ten old females," went on Dolan. "Maybe they can carry twenty eggs
apiece in their baskets." He whistled. "That'd be two hundred."

"How," asked Masson, "can you whistle with a mouth like that? I've
tried dozens of times."

Dolan chuckled. "It's a gift," he said, and came to his hands and knees.

"Take your time," cautioned Masson. "Just so we keep them in sight."

The ravine narrowed and became a vertical-walled tunnel of thidin vines
and scaly gray rock. Masson and Joe Dolan lost sight of the slow-moving
party of Frogs at times as they moved along the rim of the deep slot.
And as they followed, the floor of the ravine fell further away beneath
them; they were climbing high into the stunted cliffs and peaks of
Tular's interior.

Night came and they slept above the stopping place of the ten Butrad
ancients. And with morning they pushed upward through the soupy fog
again.

Abruptly the upward slanting slope ended. They looked out over a
roughly oval bowl of slowly writhing mist and cloud.

Dimly they saw the floor of the cavity. Several hundred acres of
jungle-clad raggedness. Miniature buttes, mesas, and cliffs split
the bowl into a hell of broken terrain, and here and there, near the
black pocks of caverns in the rimming cliff walls, there showed little
huddles of Butrad huts.

"The Place of Birth," Masson said slowly. "All the tribes of the island
must come here."

Dolan nodded and rubbed the palm of his hand over the whetted edge
of his hunting knife. "Plenty of guards stationed around the only
entrances," he said, "just as you expected. I'll have to kill them
off."

Masson shook his head. "That would warn them. I may need weeks to learn
the secret of their system of hatching the eggs." His webbed gray hand
swept in a short arc.

"Some of those caves must have other entrances. From the rim perhaps.
That's what we'll look for."

Dolan shrugged. "Right you are," he agreed.

"My theory is," Masson said, "that Venus was formerly much warmer
than it is now. For that reason the incubation temperature must be
artificially raised. The question is: how much and how long must the
eggs be artificially warmed. And do they use pools of all-but boiling
water, or is the heat comparatively dry?"

"That's for you to find out," said Dolan. "Me, I'm nothing but a truck
driver. I ain't no college-brain guy."

"You do all right," said Masson, grinning. "You seem to find your way
around the jungle easy as a native."

"Huh," snorted Dolan. "Ten years hammering the pavements and dodging
traffic does that. You gotta have a quick eye and remember what you're
doing."

Masson got to his feet and moved back from the brink.

"Let's start hunting," he suggested.

       *       *       *       *       *

They crouched together in the dark shadows of the tunnel that opened a
dozen feet above the floor of the large cavern. Down there, in the gray
half-light that filtered in through the outer entrance, they saw three
small heaps of vegetation steaming silently and the two old females who
tended them.

From time to time one of the old females filled a hollow husk from the
nik-nik fruit with water and sprinkled it over the three mounds. The
eggs they had seen the ancient ones bury so carefully were soaking up
the moist warmth.

Masson jogged Dolan's elbow, and they crawled carefully back along the
low-roofed passage toward the vine-festooned entrance five hundred feet
above. Water and gray ooze sloshed underfoot as they walked along level
reaches of the way, and always the wet rock was slippery.

"We know how the eggs are hatched now," he said, "and with experience
we can learn to gauge the proper temperature. But until we have
perfected the procedure our families will not increase very rapidly."

Dolan gulped. "I dunno if I want one of them ugly looking things we saw
in that side pen," he said.

"They're no uglier than you are, Joe," chuckled Masson. "Hunt up a pool
of clear water and look at yourself sometime." He gripped Dolan's arm.

"But that's what I was thinking about," he went on. "About that side
pen in the cave where the newly hatched Butrads are kept. We kidnaped
the Frogs' women, so...."

"Why not their kids?" Dolan laughed. "We seem to be going in for crime
in a big way."

"The young ones will have a better chance for living to adulthood,"
argued Masson. "We're doing them a favor. And the Frogs can't know
whose children are gone and whose are left."

"Sounds all right the way you put it," agreed Dolan. "Maybe because I
want to believe it. But will the little brats have brains enough to
soak up education?"

"I'm sure of it, Joe. All they need is opportunity."

"So I'm to go back and get ten or twelve other guys," said Dolan, "and
we'll clean out this Frog nursery."

"Right. I'll stay here and watch the whole procedure. Don't hurry back.
Maybe a week or so will be better."

"Okay, Glade," said the scarred giant, moving at a crouch along the
low-roofed way. "Be seeing you."

A turn in the ascending tunnel smothered the last low-spoken words, and
Masson was left alone.

The blind men came into the cavern at the direction of the wrinkled old
hags. They carefully stripped away layer upon layer of vegetation from
the smallest and brownest mound.

Masson leaned further out over the rim of the hole above the cavern
floor to watch. He had feared that the party of men from the crater
would arrive before he could see the uncovering of a mound and the
hatching of the Frog eggs.

The last layer of thidin and grass came away and perhaps a hundred of
the leathery bluish ovoids lay revealed on their steaming warm nest.
They were shapeless and limply alive now, that leather-hard outer
shell rendered soft and rotten by the steady warmth of the heating
vegetation. Masson saw two tiny monsters already free from their
outgrown prisons as the blind men began scooping them up and carrying
them to the empty pen beside the ones already occupied.

The young Butrads set up a throaty, hoarse bellowing that made the cave
vibrate. It was not their feeding time but the excitement had aroused
them and they knew but this one way to express their displeasure.
Masson started to crawl back from the passage's outer lip even as the
two old females started throwing thidin shoots and scraps of raw fish
to the screeching young ones.

And the rotten gray rock betrayed him. A dozen times in the past eight
days he had leaned out over the rim to watch, and a dozen times the
rock had supported his weight. But this time it went scaling away, a
great slab of it, and with it went the Earthman.

       *       *       *       *       *

The blind men whirled from the half-full pen and came lunging at him.
The old females screeched throaty harsh orders. And Masson raised the
gun that he somehow had managed to cling to.

"Go back," he ordered in the language of the Butrads, "go out of the
cave before I kill."

"He is but one," croaked the ancient ones, "destroy the desecrator of
the Place of Birth."

Now Masson could see that the eyes of the four Frog males had been
neatly gouged from their sockets in days past. Probably they were
blinded that they might not see the forbidden magic of the eggs that
became Frogs. Or perhaps they were blinded that they might not escape
from the birth caves into the outer jungles.

Yet in the semi-gloom of the cave they were not at too great a
disadvantage. They listened for the movement of Masson's body, and the
breath of his lungs guided them. The young of the Butrads were silent,
too. The sudden quiet was a roar in his ears.

They closed in, great chunks of stone clenched in their fists. A Frog
with but a club or a crude spear would have been beaten. But the puny
hollow tube of metal that the Earthman carried held the strength of
many heavy clubs and many huge rocks in its miniature pebbles of shaped
copper.

Masson fired and a Frog went down. The other three came on uncertainly,
and he fired again. The two remaining Butrads stopped.

"There are many of them, Old Ones," one of them cried. "They have
struck down Trew and Brun with thunder."

"There is only one!" cried the wrinkled old females. "Kill him! Strike
him down!"

"Do not listen to the Old Ones," Masson warned. "I have captured the
thunder. With it I strike you down."

The blind men hesitated, and Masson sent a bullet smoking between their
legs. They backed away toward the entrance, the females with them. And
a moment later Masson was piling fragments of rock and crumbling shale
into a barricade before the cavern's mouth.

He could hold them off for a time he knew, until night at least, even
though they brought the guards from the outer entrances to the bowl to
aid the blind men.

Again and again the guards had attacked the cave where Masson lay holed
up. All that day they had come crawling through the dense matted growth
to launch their arrows and spears at him. Fifty or sixty of them there
had been, he estimated, and at least forty blood-hungry Butrads still
faced him. These were the outer guards.

With the coming of night the blinded workers of the caves would join
them, and with their uncanny sense of hearing and touch they would
overrun the cave. The Frogs were not a cowardly race, and his invasion
into this, their most taboo and sacred place, made them all the more
fanatical in their hatred.

Masson had until night. After that, unless he escaped back through the
tunnel, he would die. And if he left the young Frogs behind he would
never again be able to raid this cavern. Already they were hungry,
their throaty shrilled cries beating at his droop-tipped ears.

Perhaps the din from within dulled his hearing. For tough naked hide
scraped on rock and the heavy breathing of the wounded blind man
should have been clearly audible otherwise. Masson must have heard him
approaching at the last for he was half-turned when the rough fragment
of grayish shale came thudding down. He twisted away from the weighty
missile, but even so it grazed along his skull and he went down into
the blackness of nothingness for a time.

He awakened to look into the hot dark eyes of a Frog who had crept to
within a few paces of his barricade.

The rifle was yet in his grip and through blinding flashes of pain
he somehow found the strength to aim and squeeze trigger. The ugly
gray face vanished and he painfully fed another cartridge into the
rifle's single chamber. The weight across his back did not go away,
and twisting his head he saw that the blind Butrad's body had slumped
across his own.

Masson slid the weight off but the blackness came again; so he rested
for a time. And this time the blackness had come to stay for it was
night. The sun had finally been swallowed by the cloud layers that
swath Venus eternally.

He tried to crawl back toward the tunnel, but how he was to climb the
sheer wall to the escape passage he did not know. He could not raise
his body from the ground on the level.

Once again the pain in his head returned and pain flashed its
lightning. His eyes clenched themselves shut and he fought off the
giddy waves of weakness. After a time he could feel again, and see.

There was light in the cave, light and the grayish flabby-hided bodies
of Butrads. He tried to raise the rifle and a webbed hand knocked it
from his grasp.

"None of that, now," a voice ordered, and his unbelieving ears
recognized that of Joe Dolan.

Rifles cracked at the cave entrance and he saw the larger young ones
of the Butrads being hoisted up to the escape tunnel. And he grinned
weakly up at Dolan's hideous scarred face.

The future of the Earthmen on the Watery World was safe now.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SURVIVAL ***

***** This file should be named 63663-0.txt or 63663-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/6/6/63663/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

