The Project Gutenberg EBook of Color Blind, by Charles A. Stearns

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Color Blind

Author: Charles A. Stearns

Release Date: November 8, 2020 [EBook #63683]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOR BLIND ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                              COLOR BLIND

                         By CHARLES A. STEARNS

          _For that elusive green-white glamour, go to Venus,
           the ads urged vain women. But that was only half
            the story--just ask olive-skinned Sukey Jones._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1954.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Her name was Sukey Kireina Jones, and the blood of South Asia was in
her veins. Mix that with the Celtic, brother, and you've got something
special. Her eyes were dark, and mostly a little sad; her hair was
black as the Rim, and she stood barely five feet in heels, unless you
count the curves, which, if Nature had been fool enough to straighten
them out, would have added quite a lot--and taken away a lot too.

We called her Sukey, and kidded her some, and what made her so
beautiful was, she didn't know it.

I had found her hanging around the Surface Transit offices, broke and
alone, and got her the job as counter girl in the Company hash house
on the edge of the space-port. That was where she met my friend, Harry
Thurbley.

Harry, was a licensed senior space pilot, but he would never let any
of us call him Captain Thurbley. He said the title sounded pompous,
and who the hell was he, anyway. The squarest guy I ever met, but you
would have thought that he was ashamed of that blue uniform. Me, Chuck
Morris, I am only an engineer--a space going mechanic--and I would
have given my share in the cosmic hereafter to wear it. I would have
strutted some.

But uniform or no uniform, I wouldn't have stood a chance with Sukey
Jones. From the moment those two set eyes on one another, she had been
Harry's girl. I used to wonder how it would have been with her and me
if I had never introduced them. Just wondering.

In those days there had got to be a heavy Venus passenger traffic. It
had become fashionable for Earth women to bleach their skin to match
their hair, and the coveted greenish-white paleness they wanted could
only be accomplished, it seemed, by spending several months under the
sunless Venusian overcast, with its odd radiations.

Caterers to this fad left in scores for Venus. Tourist lodgings and
recreational facilities sprang up on the frontier planet. Beauty got to
be big business overnight.

This was only available to women with considerable money, of course.
A round trip ticket cost just under twelve thousand dollars, and high
living, on Venus, came high indeed.

Their poor sisters had recourse only to special lamps and lotions to
simulate the pallor of the movie stars and the debutantes. It was not
the same. Not in their own minds. It was the dream of every woman to
make the pilgrimage, and not a few spent their life savings, embezzled,
stowed away, or even sold themselves to Venusian white slavers for the
chance of that elusive glamour.

Sukey's skin was of a wonderful, delicate olive shade, and she hated
it. Whenever one of the female travelers would come in to eat, looking
ghostly pale and opulent in their Martian lizard-skin coats, Sukey
Jones would sigh. I could tell that in her small body there was a
man-sized inferiority complex building up, but I didn't mention it to
Harry. He would only have worried about her.

He was thoughtful of Sukey, and many a time when we got in, and he
had business with Customs or the Port Authority, he would say to me,
"Chuck, go and see Sukey for me, and tell her I'll be along."

And as for Sukey Jones, she may not have been overly bright, but that
kind of treatment had been a rare thing in her twenty-three years of
hard knocks. She worshipped Harry Thurbley.

That night in March we had set the _Altair_ down on the field just
after dusk. Harry had business at the Office, and I was to drop in and
see Sukey first and let her know that he'd be in later. I didn't mind.
I was always glad to do it.

I went into the restaurant, and the place was crowded with passengers
for the 2200 Marsflight. I couldn't find Sukey. There was a strange
girl behind the cash register. I asked her about it, and she said she
didn't know anything; she had just been hired.

So I finally got Linda, one of the waitresses, aside, and got the story
from her.

Seemed there had been a couple of women--society dames in from Venus
on the Saturday run--and Sukey had heard one of them make a remark
about her complexion. It was nothing much, just a whispered knife
of criticism, but Sukey had flared up. Then the woman got really
insulting, and Sukey had reached over the cash register and pulled out
a big handful of her platinum locks.

That grab had cost her her job.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went to her apartment, in a ramshackle tenement a couple of blocks
away, and knocked on the door. A girl who claimed to be her roommate
answered, and said that Sukey had moved out. She wasn't supposed to
tell me where Sukey had gone if my name was Harry.

I said, who was Harry. I was an insurance claim adjuster, and had some
money for her.

Sukey had gone to live with a Mrs. Althea Campbell. The address was
1711 Oak Drive. That was all the roommate knew.

Harry was waiting down at the office when I got back there. I told him
what I had learned, and we caught a coptercab out to 1711 Oak Drive. I
remember it was on a Thursday. That turned out to be kind of important.

It was almost ten o'clock when we arrived, but the lights were still
on, and 1711 turned out to be quite a palace. "I didn't know Sukey had
any friends like that!" I said.

Harry didn't answer. His mouth was a firm, tight line. He was still
thinking of Sukey running out on him.

I pressed the button, and an egg-headed man in a monkey suit answered.
He was the butler; you could tell that.

"A Miss Sukey Jones live here?" I said.

His eyebrows elevated half an inch. "There is a young woman _employed_
here," he said. "I regret to say that this is her night off, and she is
not here."

"Employed," I said to Harry. "She must have hired as a private
secretary or something."

I doubt if the stiff in livery had smiled in years. He shouldn't have
tried it. It almost cost him his teeth. "Hardly anything so grand as
that," he said. "The girl is Mrs. Campbell's personal maid."

Harry was silent for a moment. I waited for him to speak. We looked at
each other.

"Maybe we ought to talk to this Althea Campbell," I suggested.

The woman was nearer to forty than thirty, and she could have been
handsome once. Even now her shape wouldn't have been bad if she'd taken
off forty pounds. The poundage was unnatural and flabby, and her skin
was blotched and unpleasant. She was a faded, natural blonde, I would
say, but her hair was red now.

Harry was always polite. He went forward and introduced us. She was
wearing a silk wrapper a couple of sizes too small, and she didn't get
up to greet us.

Still, she didn't seem to be displeased by an unexpected visit by two
males at 10:00 p.m. The look she gave Harry was as if she might eat
him. Harry never seemed to notice how it was with women when he came
into a room, but I could see it, raw and naked, on her face.

She was a widow, and Sukey had been working for her a week. Harry said
he knew of a job in the Company office that he could get for Sukey, and
he asked Mrs. Campbell to let her go, without telling her we'd been
there.

Mrs. Campbell's face took on a little color, making it appear more
mottled than ever. And her voice was too shrill to be comfortable. She
said that maids were very difficult to find this day and time, and that
if Sukey didn't mind it, we shouldn't mind either. She wouldn't give
her up.

"Let's wait and see what Sukey has to say about it," I suggested.

Harry shook his head. "We can't do that. She mustn't know we've been
here, Chuck."

"Why? Servants may be out of date, but there's nothing disgraceful
about honest labor."

"Of course not," Harry said. "But to Sukey it must be embarrassing.
That's why she didn't let me know what she was doing, don't you see? It
must have been that."

Well, it was logical enough. And that was Harry for you. Always
thinking first of Sukey's feelings, whereas I would probably have
turned her across my knee. But we had to do something.

We were going to be in port for three weeks, and Harry made an
appointment to come back the following Thursday, when Sukey was away
from the house, and try to reason once more with Althea Campbell.

Harry went back the next week, and the week after that, and he wasn't
having any luck, but he said that at least he could make sure that
Sukey was still all right.

Meanwhile I did some snooping, and I found out several things about
Mrs. Campbell. She was worth eighteen and a half million bucks, and
she had spent half that much trying to regain a face, and figure, and
complexion of twenty years ago, that she probably remembered better
than they were.

I talked to one of her former servants and learned that Sukey could
expect a hard time working for her. The woman was a kind of sadist with
servants, but Sukey would put up with anything to get what she wanted,
and I knew what it was she was after now. I knew why she had taken the
job.

After I had learned this, I put in a visicall to the Oak Drive mansion.
The butler's face appeared on the screen. I was too late.

I got hold of Harry as quick as I could, but I could see right away
that he had already found out.

Mrs. Campbell had taken Sukey Jones and left last night for Venus.

       *       *       *       *       *

I had known Harry Thurbley for ten years, and he was a phlegmatic sort.
He had the kind of unshakable calm and nerve you only find in a man
that's made peace with death a couple of times or so out beyond the
planets. Once I had seen him walk into a mining power plant on Callisto
and disarm a runaway pile that was due to explode in three minutes and
blast away half the moon.

When he came out he hadn't even been sweating.

But he was upset now. I tried to calm him, but I guess he had a hunch.
I had spent several years on Venus and knew the place as well as any
Terran. I tried to persuade him that Sukey Jones wouldn't be in any
danger so long as they stuck to the civilized northern part, but he
didn't seem to half hear what I was saying.

A month passed, and we made another trip beyond the Belt. When we got
back there was still no Sukey, and not even a letter. Harry and I went
into the Super's office and talked him into a transfer to the Venus run
for one trip.

It was less than five days later that we set the _Altair_ down on the
surface of the White Planet at Medea, the biggest port city on Venus.
The low, spidery towers of the native architects of old were crowded
and overshadowed by Earthstyle skyscrapers which had grown up, mostly,
since the last time I had seen Venus, fifteen years ago.

It was Harry's first trip to the sister planet of Earth, and he seemed
surprised at the mushrooming civilization. But he still couldn't rest
until we'd given the ship into the hands of the ground crew and gone to
hunt Sukey and her mistress.

Mrs. Campbell, we discovered, had checked in at the Majestic Hotel for
one week, and left, giving no forwarding address. After that she had
been heard from in two or three of the border cities. She had made the
rounds of all the beauty parlors and quack establishments in town. This
was her fourth trip to Venus, and all of the merchants knew her by
sight.

But she was not, currently, visiting any of these places. It seemed
that Althea Campbell, a couple of days ago, had disappeared, which was
nothing to me, except that she had taken a tiny girl named Sukey Jones
with her.

Mrs. Campbell may have had acquaintances about Venus, but not many
friends. Especially among the natives, whom she loathed and treated
like scum. The natives of the temperate belts were humanoid, and though
primitive in culture, fairly intelligent.

They were thin, and not too bad-looking if you could get used to the
fish-belly whiteness of their scaly skins, and a partial lack of
symmetry in their bodies, such as having one eye a couple of sizes
bigger than the other one.

It was from one of the Venusians that we found our first clue. He
was Argol Beg, the head of the native Security Police, an individual
with silvery, heavy-lidded eyes, and long, nervous, quadruple-jointed
fingers.

He mentioned a name that I had heard a long time ago, and forgotten.
Marjud. Marjud had been one of the rebel chieftains who had fought
against the Alliance in the late Venerian sectional war, and now was
outlawed from the Northern settlements.

I call him a man, but I had seen pictures of Marjud once, and there
were features about that gross body of his that no one except a
Venusian would believe. He was a native of the steaming jungles of
the torrid zone, a forbidden area where the native form mysteriously
shifted and changed from generation to generation for reasons at which
the anthropologists could only guess. His race was still barbaric, for
the most part, which was why it was off limits.

It seemed that Marjud was now in the beauty racket. That could have
handed me a laugh, except that we were too worried about Sukey.

We got a newspaper, the _Medean Times_, and sure enough, there was
his ad, in scrambled English that hadn't even been changed by the
proofreader.

              See Marjud, High Priest of Love and Beauty
              It Is for a Smooth, White Appearance and I
                Will Give You the Limbs Long and Pale,
                     and Also Supple and Graceful.

The address of the contact man was given. I asked Argol Beg why he
had not arrested Marjud. But Marjud's man had set up in the Colonial
Quarter, where Argol Beg had no authority, and he was not wanted by the
Earth colonial police.

"Come on," I said to Harry. "Let's see if we can locate the old
gargoyle." Harry was pretty worried by this time, and he didn't half
understand what was going on, not knowing Venus.

"I'm with you, whatever you say," he said.

We visited the address given in the ad, and got to talk to a
normal-appearing native with slit eyes and a fishy stare. He said that
Marjud saw only Terran females, and he couldn't help us.

I persuaded him to change his mind in a few minutes, and then he told
us that Marjud was staying in a dhol cave outside the city. The dhol
caves were made by a long-dead, semi-intelligent race of quadrupeds,
and it wasn't uncommon for the none-too-particular Venusians to set up
housekeeping in them.

There was a guard hanging around the entrance to this one. The contact
man pointed out the guard and fled. The guard argued and I had to slug
him with the butt of my gun. Harry went over and looked at him.

He turned to me and his face was clammy white. It was one of the
equatorial species.

"What's the matter?" I said.

"What is it?"

I told him. "Marjud is worse," I said.

"Stay here, Chuck," he said, drawing his own weapon. "If I don't come
out within five minutes, come in blasting."

       *       *       *       *       *

I started to argue, but I knew that he really wanted it that way. I had
more experience at the rough and tumble arts, but he had taken a back
seat so far, and it was his right. It was for Sukey.

I waited, while the minutes dragged. Just as I was ready to go in,
Harry came out. There was a sick look on his face that I had never seen
before. He was one of those people who can't stand the sight of freaks
or anomalies.

He took a deep breath of that damp, heavy, tasteless air, as though it
were wine.

"You found him?"

"It was like--like hitting a--a--" He gagged.

"I know," I said. "I saw a picture of him once. What did you learn?"

"Probably it doesn't make any sense. She--Mrs. Campbell--gave him ten
thousand dollars, Colonial money. I got that much out of him. In return
he arranged for them to visit what he calls a 'sacred rainbow garden',
whatever that means, near the equator. I got the approximate location
of the place."

For the first time I got plenty scared. I knew about the rainbow
gardens, all right. On most of the surface of Venus the direct rays
of Sol never penetrated the numerous layers of poisonous clouds that
shielded and sheltered the livable atmosphere and the mild, though
dreary climate underneath. But in certain areas curious updrafts
allowed small shafts of sunlight to reach the surface. The areas were
never large, but wherever the light struck, the effect upon a drab,
colorless world was like magic.

For a reason that science had never been able to learn, objects on
Venus, whenever exposed to direct sunlight, instead of giving off white
light, diffracted it into its spectral components, and showed up in
gorgeous, blinding hues. Also, the vegetation within these charmed
areas was subtly changed. The constant, radiant mist caused the trees
and plants to take on warped, nightmarish shapes.

The natives worshipped the rainbow gardens, and bathed in the colored
mists that eternally swept up into the blackness of space from the
surface.

I didn't want to upset Harry, but I had spent enough years on Venus to
hear a lot of curious stories that had circulated through the north
about those strange regions.

"Come on," I said, "we'd better not waste any time."

We had been able to charter an old-fashioned flutter-plane, which could
land more or less vertically, and Harry had the approximate longitude
of the place from Marjud.

We could see it a long way off, fortunately, and it was like a big
waterspout, except for its preternatural straightness, reaching up in
a silvery, swirling column through the gray cloud layer twelve miles
overhead.

He didn't swing the flutter-plane too near to it. The updrafts around
it, at this altitude, were supposed to move at terrific speed, and
could shatter even a rocketship.

There was some kind of gray stone building rising out of the gray-green
forest at the foot of the column, and we landed a quarter of a mile
away, so as not to attract attention. We walked in, and in a few
minutes were able to make out the domes of the temple rising over the
tops of the trees.

The masonry was of a rough, dark basalt, crude and unbeautiful. The
work of the primitive tribes that lived in the area. I had heard of
giant towers and spired old cities which were supposed to have been the
work of an ancient, long-dead, and highly evolved race, but there had
never been any evidence of such places. Probably these native temples
had started the stories. There was plenty of reason to believe that the
planet Venus was new and in the first evolution when men from Earth
arrived.

Behind the temple itself rose a fifty foot wall of the same
undistinguished stone, and inside this wall the mysterious column of
mist rose. Within that mist lay the rainbow garden.

The only entrance appeared to be through the temple itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were in an enormous rotunda, a sort of congregational throne room
where thousand of natives might gather during the orgies that were
irregularly held.

There was not a living thing in sight in all that domed vastness.
Hundreds of idols of obscure primitive gods lined the walls.

Harry cupped his hands to his mouth. "Anybody here?" The words bellowed
and bounced against the lofty ceiling, echoing and reechoing. And they
got results right away.

From somewhere among those shadows at the other end of the room there
was a blue flash. The air crackled and fried near my ear. We flopped on
the floor and returned the fire. There was a scream. One of us had made
a lucky hit. We waited ten minutes and advanced.

We found the body of a Venusian in colonial garb, one of the slim,
regular-featured northern tribesmen. I knew that he must be Marjud's
agent, for Northerners were rarely found in these latitudes if they
could help it.

Beyond the dead Venusian lay a narrow passageway that must lead to the
inner chambers.

Harry wanted to rush the place. "Take it easy," I said. "These boys
are tricky, and they have little poison spears that kill on contact.
There's bound to be a few of them hanging around the garden--the
priests. That was Marjud's underling back there. We haven't met the
natives yet."

We met them right away. Three of them had been waiting for us in a
sort of transept. Something--a blunt hatchet probably--bounced off my
shoulder and sent a sharp pain through it. I swung my fist and caught
the assailant in his skeleton midriff, doubling him up. I could only
see the outline of his shape in that gloom, and I didn't like it. It
was out of a nightmare. Harry was having better luck. He shoved the
muzzle of his gun into the Venusian's belly and burned a hole through
him.

The other one tried to run, but he didn't get far.

Harry was breathing hard. He grinned at me. "You okay?" he said.

"I'll have a shoulder that's sore as hell for a while," I said, "but
let's go."

A dozen passageways led from the main one. "Where do we look first?"
Harry wanted to know.

"We'd better split up. That way we can cover more territory."

"I don't like to leave you alone with that bum shoulder."

"Forget it. If there were any more around, they've cleared out by now.
Get going."

I had a pocket light that I used in the darkest passages. Most of the
cloisters and compartments were empty, and didn't look as though they'd
been used in years.

At the end of one passageway I found the rooms of the priests, very
sparsely furnished, and from there I got a glimpse from a narrow
ventilation slit at the garden itself. The colored mists and the weird
trees. But no animate being was moving out there.

In the last room, the door was barred with a crude, vertical bolt. I
blasted off the bar, and opened the door. Behind it I found Sukey Jones.

       *       *       *       *       *

She stood there looking scared, and not believing that it was really
me. Her eyes were big as dollars.

And when she was sure, the way she threw herself at me and hugged me,
it was embarrassing.

"Chuck, Chuck! I never thought I'd see you again. I never--I'm so--!"
And that was all I got out of her for the next couple of minutes. I
gave her my handkerchief to dab at her eyes, and I got the story at
last.

She had been there two days without food and water, locked in.

They had arrived a week ago, and during that time she had seen nothing
except the interior of this room.

Althea Campbell had heard rumors of the rainbow gardens, and that the
natives, by bathing in the radiation given off by the colored mists,
were able to restore youth and vigor for long periods of time. She had
seen the chance of restoring her own body to its youthful bloom and of
working the miracle that she had sought for so many years on half a
dozen planets. She had sought out Marjud, who alone had contacts that
could get them into the forbidden area.

"I still don't get it," I said. "Where is she now, and why has she got
you locked in here?"

"I was afraid after we arrived, and I didn't want to do it. She said we
had to take off our clothes and go with the priests into the rainbow
garden. I refused, and she slapped me and said that I was impertinent
and ungrateful. I threatened to run away and tell the authorities, so
they locked me in here.

"The she-devil!" I said.

"Oh, she's really not so bad," said Sukey, forgivingly. "It's just that
she's a little mad when it comes to being young and beautiful. She was
forever talking about the way her arms and legs looked, and all, and
crying, and bawling me out."

"Come on," I said. "Let's find Harry and get out of here."

Her lip quivered. "H-Harry? Is he here too?"

"Somewhere," I said, trying to frown at her, and not succeeding, "and
worried to death. If I was him I would skin you alive."

"I just wanted a chance to come to Venus. That's why I took the job as
maid to Mrs. Campbell. I knew that she was tremendously wealthy and
came to Venus every year to the beauty culturists."

I didn't press the subject. The sky over Venus hadn't faded her
complexion much, luckily.

It was still fine, even if she did look a little beat.

We went out into the hallway and I yelled for Harry. He answered. He
seemed to be outside.

I looked out one of the ventilation slits. He was standing out there
with his back to me, looking into the rainbow garden. The mists were
rising in wispy colors here and there, and I could tell without looking
at my chrono that the long Venusian night was approaching, for the
distorted shapes of the trees were vague, and could no longer be seen
more than a few yards away.

"Up here!" I said. And he looked up.

He pointed to the garden. "Thought I heard somebody calling out there,"
he said, pointing.

"Don't go away," I said. "And don't go in there, whatever you do. I'll
be right out."

I grabbed Sukey's arm. "We'll surprise him," I told her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sukey Jones came up from behind Harry and put her hand on his arm.
He turned and they just looked at each other for the space of half a
minute.

Harry's voice was kind of choked. He said, "Sukey, I--"

And then we all heard it. It was a woman crying. The sound came from
the garden. Harry took a step toward the mists.

"Wait," I said. And I shouted, "Mrs. Campbell, is that you?"

"Here!" Her voice was faint and plaintive. Just as I had remembered it.

"Come on out. We've come to take you home."

"I--I can't."

"How long has she been in there?" I asked Sukey. "Do you know?"

"All of the time, I suppose."

I shook my head. "It's risky business, but we can't leave her, I
suppose. I'll go in."

"I can't let you do that," Harry said. "I'm the logical one to go.
Listen!" We could hear her crying. A vexed, lost-little-girl sound.

I shoved Harry aside. "You don't know what you're getting into," I
said. "Take Sukey, and--"

That was the first and only time that Harry ever swung at me. The first
thing I knew, I was sitting on the ground with my head spinning.

Harry was looking down at me and grinning sardonically. "I hated to do
that, Chuck," he said, "but you see, it has to be me that goes after
her."

He turned and took both of Sukey's thin shoulders in his hands. He
couldn't speak for a while. His eyes were talking, though; saying
they were awfully sorry. And then he took a couple of steps into that
colored mist before he stopped and looked back.

He was still smiling, but it was a secret smile. He said, "It's too
bad, Sukey, but you know, eighteen million bucks are eighteen million
bucks."

"What the--?" I said.

"Harry, darling, is that you?" The voice of Mrs. Campbell was closer
now.

"Coming, Althea dear!" he said, and laughed at me. "Do you suppose I
_wasted_ all those Thursdays, Chuck?" he said. "'Bye. Take care of
Sukey for me. Althea and I'll be along later."

He turned his back on us and went deeper into the mists, calling her
name, spreading the bushes with his hands and trying to see her.

He was hazy now, hardly visible.

But I saw Althea Campbell just an instant before he did. She came out
of the rainbow mist from behind him, and her now-blonde hair glimmered
with reds and greens, and blues and gold and purple. Her naked body
was snow white. She had got her money's worth, I suppose. Marjud had
promised her that pale complexion.

And the curious radiations had given her smooth legs and arms that were
pearl-white and long, and supple, and graceful.

She came from behind Harry and put her arms around him.

All of them.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Color Blind, by Charles A. Stearns

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COLOR BLIND ***

***** This file should be named 63683.txt or 63683.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/6/8/63683/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
