ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of Land Beyond the Flame, by Evelyn Goldstein

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Land Beyond the Flame

Author: Evelyn Goldstein

Release Date: November 11, 2020 [EBook #63713]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LAND BEYOND THE FLAME ***




                       THE LAND BEYOND THE FLAME

                          By EVELYN GOLDSTEIN

              _Beyond the Flame Barrier lay knowledge of
             the Originals. Long it stretched from horizon
             to horizon, a thin stream of living light; a
               thin path of peril for Allyn the Numan._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories May 1954.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Cautiously Allyn the Numan moved to the edge of the outcropping rocks,
black cloak swirling hip length about his lean seven foot figure. His
close cropped silver hair was bare so that he had to shade his silver
eyes against the shimmering waste ahead.

At his back, the jagged rocks rose and fused into wild hills. Before
him stretched the Graysand Desert, cruel with heat and treacherous
sands. And, shrill in the fiery air, came the squeals of the rat pack.

Giant carnivores, shaggy and foul-breathed, their wicked claws could
tear a man fleshless. Fetid poison lay in the bite from their sharp
yellow teeth, and those teeth were bared now in raging anticipation.

They were on the kill! Hunger in their voices and lust. And their gray
bodies, a pollution on the landscape, surged after a desperate prey.

What did they pursue? Allyn strained to see.

_An Olman!_

The sun blazed on the sweat of the mighty chest heaving with exertion.
Like all the males of that savage group he was naked, save for a
loincloth, and his bronzed corded arms swung in tempo with his pumping
feet. With each step, he left a bloody trail which spurred the rats to
further frenzy.

The blood loss told! He fell! But, even as he went down, he spun on
his back, teeth bared, and the burning wind carried his fierce yell of
defiance.

The rodents went mad with triumph. They leapt for the kill.

Without thinking Allyn brought his flame gun from its holster. Lances
of bright death seared the gray ranks. Squeals died. The rats swerved
from the fallen man, scattered. Retreat was a panic stampede. And soon
their shrilling faded in the distance.

The prone man twisted to hands and knees to face his rescuer. Hope was
bright in his eyes. But then he saw Allyn. Elation became horror.

"_Numan!_" It was a despairing cry. Then he fainted.

Allyn hastened across the gray sands. Hefting the unconscious man to
his shoulders he staggered toward the rocks. In a crevice, sheltered by
a natural ledge, he deposited his burden, and set about examining the
gashed thigh. The wound was more painful than serious, and he ripped a
strip from the lining of his cloak to bind it tight and stop the blood
flow. He had barely finished when the young savage stirred.

Allyn tensed, watchful, flame gun ready. He saw the dark eyes open,
not sleepy, but with full awareness, as with a wild beast. The well
conditioned muscles tightened.

"Don't move!" Allyn aimed the gun.

The prone man froze. He well knew the power of the weapon. The taut
muscles did not relax, but remained arrested, waiting for one unguarded
instant to spring at the other's throat.

"Don't be alarmed," the Numan reassured, "I won't hurt you."

No sign that the other heard. But in the rigid muscles, distrust was
plain.

"Try getting up--but slowly. You've lost a lot of blood."

The Olman rose with easy grace. As he did he noticed the dressing on
his leg, and wild hate flamed his face.

"Why didn't you let the rats finish me! It would have been cleaner than
death in your experimental camps."

"I didn't save you for the camps. You're free to return to your
kinsmen."

The youth stared. "I never heard of mercy from a Numan," he said
suspiciously. "A twenty-year-old like me would last a long time in the
hands of the vivisectionists of your people."

Pain furrowed Allyn's lean face. "They are no longer my people," he
whispered, "I'm an outcast."

His beautiful silver head drooped wearily. He had rebelled, flaunted
the law of the logicians, even done the supreme crime....

"I have struck a logician," he said, filled with the horror of his own
deed. "The Gyro-Gard are hunting me." Apprehensively the two glanced
skyward. But there was no dreaded black craft to be seen.

The Olman was curious. "Why did you strike your Elder?"

"For my sister, Aleena."

The Olman spat a furious epithet. "No Numan has a sister! Do you think
I'm a fool! It is told around our council fires that your women die
at the birth of their first child. You cannot have a sister! You are
lying!"

Allyn's head lifted proudly. "A Numan does not lie! Aleena and I are
twin--a phenomenon among my people. It was decreed that we would mate
to pass multiple births on through our progeny. But, when the day of
union was set, I refused, knowing that within the year of conception
Aleena would die."

His head bowed recalling his own heresy. "Metas, our Chief Logician
himself came to syko me. He told me I was a throwback, capable of
emotions like an Olman." He shuddered with distaste that brought an
angry growl from the Olman's throat. Allyn did not notice. "Metas
decreed hypno for me."

"Hypno?"

"Control of the mind, so I would have taken Aleena through no volition
of my own."

The Olman leaned forward eagerly: "Tell us how to storm the Nyloplast
dome that surrounds your city. My kinfolk and I will crush your
Logicians and get back your Aleena."

Allyn looked at him in horror: "Do you think even if I could I would
betray Numan into the hands of beasts."

The young savage drew back. His face became hard in bitter lines, and
for a moment his hand flashed to his belt, but his knife was rusting in
the vitals of a rat.

"Beast?" his mouth twisted in hatred. "I--Keeven--am nothing but a
beast to you."

Allyn was bewildered by the other's emotion. The silver brows drew
together in perplexity. Numen were dispassionate, and the Olman's
torrent of feeling was totally new to him.

Whatever he might have said was never uttered. Out of the sky came the
drone of a motor.

"Gyro-gard!" Keeven exclaimed. He crouched like a cat-thing moving
fluid under the shelter of the rock ledge. Heart hammering, Allyn leapt
down beside him. Dry-throated, cramped, they heard the motor come
closer, then fade away in the distance.

"That was close," Allyn said as they came out of concealment. "The
closest they've come yet. They're widening the area of search." He
turned to the other. "Leave me quickly. I can only bring you disaster."

It was Keeven's turn to be perplexed. "I confess I don't understand
you. You are a Numan, but you are different. What do they call you,
Numan?"

"Allyn."

"Allyn, you saved my life. For your good turn my people will shelter
you now. When the chase dies down you can leave us."

Live with the beast-men? Allyn started to decline but Keeven pointed
out, "If you travel without me you will be hunted both by your people
and mine."

There was logic in his words. "All right," he agreed, "I will go to
your people."

       *       *       *       *       *

Their path lay upward into the somber outjutting hills. Keeven was a
tireless traveler, but Allyn, with the endurance of the Numen, followed
easily. The day paled, and shadows lengthened on the rocks when they
came through a narrow path into the cup of hills where grass grew, and
the land was fertile for crops.

Several times Keeven stopped, and stood, as though listening. Once
Allyn said impatiently: "I don't hear anything."

"That's just it." Keeven's face was gray. "We don't hear anything." The
words gave voice to his fear. He began to run. And Allyn ran behind
him. Scrambling over boulders. Leaping over fallen stumps. Down they
raced to the site of the village.

No sound greeted them. And there was no hint of movement.

At the first house Keeven braked to a halt. Doors were torn away from
the wood shelters, as were the tanned skins over the mouths of the
caves. All about, the grass was blackened with fire, and no crops would
sprout this year in the deep burned earth.

In anguish Keeven rushed from door to door, calling the names of people
who had lived there. His voice keened higher with despair at each empty
dwelling. Slowly Allyn followed. His own throat was tightening at the
other's shock and grief.

There were half prepared meals. In one hut a crude cradle swayed with
the wind of their passing--empty....

The breeze flapped the skins, and a rude door creaked where it hung
bound with rawhide to the lintel.

Slowly the futility of calling struck Keeven. He turned. His hard face
was drawn and bloodless.

"Gone," he whispered. "Nothing. No one left."

As though in mockery, a call sounded from the hills. They wheeled
in shock, eyes to the rocks, straining against the dusk. A figure
scrambled toward the blackened clearing.

It was a girl!

She ran to Keeven. Threw herself in his arms. "Keeven! Oh, Keeven, I
thought I was the only one left!"

"Marva!" Into her hair he stammered, "H--How did you escape?"

"I was in the hills for water when the gyros came." Her voice was
broken with wild sobs, "I heard the commotion and saw the flames. I hid
all this time. Even when the gyros went away. I hid till--till I heard
you calling."

Allyn watched how Keeven patted the soft bare shoulders, and stroked
the tumble of silken hair that was so black it seemed blue. A stirring
of strange passion went through him. His heart stumbled and raced. He
had the warped mad urge to tear the girl away from the youth, to study
her face, twine that hair round and round his lean long fingers. He
stood like a rock, holding back churning emotions.

Metas was right! Over and over the bitter thought claimed him. Metas
had known! Beneath the generations of logic that had bred him, lay a
core of savagery. Years it had slumbered. Now it claimed him.

He must have made a sound. The girl whirled. Her eyes were great and
dark, her skin rose over dusk. But now the rose-color fled, so that her
wide gaze seemed black with terror and loathing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under that gaze Allyn felt whipped. For the first time he felt
shame--shame for himself and for all Numen. Shame that they had caged
these people, torn them, bled and killed them. All in the name of
science! Experiment was survival! The Logicians had made it holy. The
mirror of the girl's eyes told him what Numen were. Monsters!

She shivered. Drew back against Keeven. Her slim body, bare armed, bare
legged in the brief skin garment, trembled against the young savage.

"Don't be afraid," he soothed. "This Numan is a friend." Briefly he
recounted his experiences since leaving camp, till the terror left her
face. Then he said to Allyn: "This is my sister, Marva."

"Keeven," she tugged at his hand. "We must get away from here. The
Gyro-Gard have been circling all day."

The Olman's laugh was mirthless: "Go? Where?"

"Come with me," Allyn said impulsively. "I am going to the Forbidden
Area. I am going to cross the Flame Barrier."

Even the wind stopped at the fearsome words. They shrank back from him.

"No one can approach the Flame!" Keeven cried. "It is death; death more
terrible than by your vivisectionists."

Marva whispered: "It is taboo. It changes you into some monstrous
thing!"

Allyn's straight mouth set. "Nevertheless I must go. It is told that
beyond the Flame lies the knowledge of the Originals. Perhaps it will
teach how to save our women from death in childbirth. It's my only hope
of saving Aleena."

Thoughtfully Keeven regarded him. "It has been said around our council
fires that there will be found a weapon to shatter the Nyloplast dome.
Perhaps," he mused, "I will find it in time to save my kinsmen from the
knives."

He smote a mighty fist into his palm: "We will go with you, Numan. For
hope may lie ahead but--" his glance swept around, "only death lies
here."

With a keen bladed knife he secured from one of the caves Keeven mapped
in the mud the trail they must take. At night Allyn would lead, for
night and day were one to Numen eyes.

They traveled close upon each other's heels, holding their leader's
cloak for guidance in the darkness. By dawn they reached a small cave.
There they rested, well hidden from patrolling gyros. When they woke at
noon they were fresh for the next step of their journey.

Descending the rocky slope they came to the thin line of trees that
marked the beginning of the forest. This time Keeven took the lead with
Marva close beside. Allyn, at the rear, watched the easy grace with
which the girl moved. Her slender brown feet in hide moccasins touched
lightly on the path, and her body was erect and lithe.

How different she was from the unobtrusive women he knew. Raised in
humility to men, kept in secluded quarters, they were trained only for
the breeding day that would be the culmination of their lives. Aleena
alone stood apart from other Nuwomen. Because theirs had been a sacred
charge from birth they had been permitted to work together in the
hydroponics labs.

"Aleena." He thought of her now, gentle, with luminous eyes fringed in
long silver lashes. The sheen of her silver hair that hung waist length
was dancing moonlight. Loneliness lay like hunger in him. Withdrawn
from Aleena, hunted by his people, what madness lay in his desire
to feed himself to a flaming radiance forbidden by all. Surely he
should go back, return to his rightful destiny. Leave these unheard of
companions--turn back on emotion that was bitter, hurting....

Marva glanced over her shoulder at him. Her smile was sweet
encouragement. Her lips were red and full. Desire was as red as that
mouth! And Allyn knew he would never turn back!

They moved into the deeper woods, where the heavy lacing trees made a
green roofing to shelter them from seekers of the sky. Keeven caught an
animal emerging from its burrow. The brother and sister worked in quiet
union skinning and cooking dinner. They were skilled in making fires
without smoke.

Used to dehydrated foods, Allyn was amazed at the savoriness of this
meat. He watched his companions lick the juices from their fingers, and
did likewise. Then wiping his hands on leaves, he sank back with a sigh
on the fragrant pine nettled ground, while they destroyed all evidence
of their repast.

Nothing untoward happened that first day of their journey. At dusk of
the second they camped at the bank of a rushing brook. Keeven waded
downstream to spear fish. Marva sat on the bank bathing her feet in
the fresh water while Allyn stood close by. She rose, and stepped on
a sharp rock. With a small cry her hands flailed. She almost fell
backwards into the stream. Allyn's arms shot out. He pulled her so that
she fell against him.

He did not move. Nor she. She was warm, her body like sunheat. There
was a fresh pine fragrance from her hair. She came not as high as his
shoulder. They were short, these Olmen, and she was not quite six foot.
Her mouth was beneath his, full and red and hot as blood.

He kissed that mouth, tart, delicious as wild strawberries. And her
arms went around him in savage response.

This was mad! Mad beyond any madness! This was passion beyond legends,
forgotten by Numan, tabooed by Olman.

Close to his face, hers yearned. Still she drew away slowly, out of the
circle of his arms. "This is forbidden!" she whispered. She touched
her sweet curved breast, "It hammers like the warning drum of the
village: 'Numan and Olman cannot mate. Numen are inhuman. Mating is
impossible.'" Her voice broke.

Under the agony in her eyes his hands fell to his sides like stones.
He did not stop her when she ran from him into the grove of trees.
He stood there, shaken by desire and by the ingrained lesson of
years--Olmen are beasts. A man does not mate with the beast!

       *       *       *       *       *

They were a quiet trio that took up the journey later. If Keeven
noticed he was always center man, he made no sign.

The woods were dense and Keeven's mighty arm hacked often with the
sharp blade to clear their path. Slowly, almost imperceptibly, the
woods began to change.

"We approach the Forbidden Area," Keeven's words were tense.

It was very silent. Insect and bird life seemed to have tabooed these
habits. The landscape became twisted and strange. Seemingly normal
trees sprouted bizarre growths. Giant bushes of a red mold color grew
side by side with stunted trees that barely reached their knees, yet
seemed fantastically aged.

The trio moved closer together, ears strained for normal sounds that
did not exist there. The suffering ground was bitter, and erupted into
convulsions, as though ejecting the monstrosities it had nurtured.
Their feet ached from the humped and hollowed path. There was no
whisper of wind. Yet Allyn shivered. A cold, ancestral fear laid lean
fingers on his dry throat.

Light made their faces wan when they came to the edge of the deformed
woods. Ahead was the narrow stretch of barren waste that led to the
rotted wood paling. The paling was only token warning now, encircling
the shunned and dreaded Forbidden Area.

Movement caught their eyes. Instinctively, they fell to earth, hardly
breathing, watching.

Into their line of vision paced a Gard, flame gun in hand. Even as they
watched another Gard paced in from the opposite direction.

Allyn's whisper was sick: "They've thrown a cordon around the Forbidden
Area!"

Keeven caught a gleam on dark metal. "There's a gyro--to the left. Can
you fly one?"

Allyn nodded. "It's basic training for all Numen. But what good does it
do us? There are the Gards."

The Olman's smile was grim. "You have a gun," he reminded.

Allyn stared. Use his gun? On Numen? Flame his own people!

The other sensed his thoughts. "Give it to me then. I'll make good use
of it."

There _had_ to be another way. His restless eyes sought the clearing.

In that instant Keeven sprang. Muscular arms caught the surprised
Numan, crushing him to the ground. Swift fingers plucked the gun from
his side. Then Keeven was off, crouching, weapon leveled straight for
Allyn's breast.

There was a shout from the Gard. The three had been discovered. Flames
of warning seared the shrubbery about them and the Gard made a rush
toward their concealment.

Cursing, Keeven spun, flame gun ready. Allyn lunged at him, and his
lance of fire struck harmlessly into the ground ahead. The gun rolled
from his grasp. He surged up, flung the Numan away, leapt for the
weapon.

"STAND!" The command froze Allyn. They were surrounded.

Keeven moved. With swift animal reflexes he caught the nearest Gard in
the belly with his dagger. Another rushed in. Keeven smashed his jaw
with a mighty fist that felled the Gard instantly. By brute strength
alone he might have fought to freedom. But the numbers against him
were too great. They beat him to the ground, using guns like clubs.
Finally he lay still, blood from a dozen wounds irrigating the barren
ground.

Marva flung herself beside him. Over the prone man her dark glance
caught Allyn's. Her eyes were wet with tears. But accusation blazed
from them. Betrayer! Betrayer! As loud as though she had shrieked it.
Yet, no sound passed her bloodless lips.

"Marva." He took a step forward.

A scarlet cloaked Senior Gard moved between. "Come quietly. Metas wants
you unharmed for hypno."

Two gards moved to either side and grasped Allyn's arms. As in a
nightmare he let them take him.

They marched down the stretch of waste land to the waiting gyro. One
of the Gard clambered into the cabin, slid into the pilot seat and
adjusted dials on the instrument panel. As Allyn and the Senior came
aboard the motor hummed, warming.

Keeven was flung unconscious through the door. They had put irons
around his wrists and throat connected by chains that rattled as
he rolled against the wall. Marva, similarly shackled, was thrown
unceremoniously into the cabin. She rose, panther-lithe, and came
to her brother's side. With fettered hands she tried to staunch the
bleeding on his face, and softly cried his name.

The Senior turned in annoyance. "Stop your noise!"

Oblivious to all but her brother's need of aid she sobbed, "Keeven!
Keeven, open your eyes!"

Grimly the Senior advanced upon her, gun-butt raised. He brought it
smashing down.

Allyn sprang. He caught the Senior's lowering hand, and twisted it
sharply back. The gun dropped while a scream of pain filled the cabin.
Allyn stopped the cry with a chopping fist that felled the Gard.

The pilot came out of his seat to his superior's assistance. Allyn
caught the movement through the corner of his eyes. Whirling he met the
charge, and they thrashed to the floor.

The pilot was wiry and gripped Allyn's throat, cutting off air. He
pounded the face above him with clenched fists but, inexorably, the
fingers tightened. Allyn's sight dimmed, and sound became distorted.
The pilot felt him weaken, and shifted for a harder grip. In that
respite Allyn drew his knees up, lashed out with his feet, sending
the other floundering back. Before he could recover Allyn leaped
forward, bringing his hands down in a rabbit punch that knocked the man
unconscious.

Groggily Allyn rose. His wavering sights caught the red flutter
of a cloak in the open door. He charged, head lowered, across the
intervening space, caught an incoming Gard flush in mid-section,
knocking him into his companions. Catching himself against the door,
Allyn pulled back, snapping it shut.

Breathing hard he made unsteadily for the pilot seat. His long fingers
moved over the dials of the control panel, and the craft rose smoothly
into the air. He looked out the window, and saw the recovered Gard
raising weapons against them. A spurt of flame missed the motor. The
second was true to its target, but short. They were too high to be
reached now. He saw the scarlet clad figures make for their gyros and
he jabbed the dials for maximum speed and height.

"Bring the Senior's keys from his pouch," he told Marva over his
shoulder, "and take their guns."

He heard her chains rattle as she moved, and his lips set.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a moment she was beside him with the keys and guns. He set the dials
to automatic, laid the guns on the co-pilot seat and turned to free her.

The irons fell from her wrists and throat. Where they had been the
silken skin was angry red. Hard eyed he took the chains and snapped
them on the unconscious Senior. He similarly released Keeven, who was
beginning to stir, and fettered the pilot with his irons.

Back to the controls he went. From the view-plate he saw the Forbidden
Area black and pock-marked below. Ahead, at the horizon, sky and earth
pulsed gold-orange. The Barrier!

Nothing living had been so close before. Long it stretched, from
horizon to horizon, a thin stream of living light.

They winged closer. Allyn felt his hands grow clammy on the controls.
Inherent terror sat leaden in his stomach. The whispered warnings of
the elders, thought lost in childhood, came to weird life in his mind,
making him want to turn, even back to the knives of the medics rather
than face the strange glow ahead.

He half-turned the ship, and saw, like birds in the distance, the
formations of Gyro-Gard.

"Allyn," Marva whispered, her voice a plea.

He turned his head. Her dark eyes begged him, and he moved the
controls--straight ahead--to the light....

His communication board glowed. Quickly he answered to see the black
and scarlet robed Junior Gard on the visiscreen.

"Surrender!" was the cold command, "or you die in the flame!"

He glanced to the rear view-plate. Their pursuers hung in space, not to
follow, but to bar retreat. There was no turning....

He smiled grimly and snapped the switch to cut contact.

They were close now, close enough for Allyn to see the truth. There
were no fires, as legend told. Perhaps once there had been a holocaust
that pulsed toward the sky and ate of the earth, but now, in the canal,
was only the residue, a radiation that reflected upward like heat
shimmers.

He felt Marva's hand tremble on his, like a frightened butterfly. He
caught that hand, pressed it convulsively to his lips, and then they
were directly over the radiance.

The gyro bucked, and plunged. As a moth it fell toward the light. The
shock flung them forward. He sensed Marva's fall, but had no time
for thought, other than an involuntary reaching for the controls.
He strained to right the possessed ship, working against the siren
radiations that pulled it down.

Brightness was about them. Skins shown golden, eyes were dazzled.

The gyro resisted Allyn's manual commands. Fingers numb with the
pull, he fought. Slowly the nose eased up, giving them a precious
moment's gain. The gyro shuddered--a doomed thing. He coaxed it
further, but again the nose dipped. And again he brought it up! And
then--abruptly--the pull was gone. The brilliance faded.

They were past the Barrier!

Astounded they looked at one another. Bereft of speech or comprehension
they could only stare. Save for the swiftly fading light they were as
before--unchanged, unscathed. And behind them the Barrier pulsed, with
no sign of transgression.

"Am I different?" Marva whispered.

He shook his head mutely.

A hoarse exclamation turned them to the others in the cabin. They too
were fully conscious and aware of the unbelievable thing that had
happened. They too stared at themselves and at each other, and then
they rose, the Numen unsteady in their chains, and scrambled for a look
at what lay below.

The land was devastated. A twin to the Forbidden Area! Allyn thought he
must be mad. Surely they had gone through! And there at the boundary
mark was a rotted fence to mark off the Area before the waste land
became mutilated forestry.

Everything was the same! Everything--but the Gyro-Gard were not
there....

       *       *       *       *       *

Then they saw the forest. It was not the same, not the one they had
left. It was smaller and terminated in the muddy bank of a twisted
river. On the opposite bank were scattered signs of habitation. But
such habitation! The style was squat, the material was red oblong
blocks set in rows upon each other.

There were grain fields. People working in the fields looked up at
their passing, and evidenced excitement. People working in the open!
Unsheltered by hills or caves!

Habitations became more frequent, and soon they flew over the square of
a town. A town unprotected by a Nyloplast screen!

Allyn brought the aircraft lower. People were congregating in the
square, gesticulating.

Allyn felt a stirring in his mind and, as plain as spoken words: "Come
down. Land."

Hesitantly his fingers touched the controls. The thoughts in his brain
were gentle, encouraging. He glanced at Marva. Her eyes were on the
scene below, dreamy, lips half parted. Behind her Keeven watched.
There was eagerness in his face.

"It's safe," he said to Allyn's questioning glance. "I sense it. They
are friendly."

Allyn felt it too. There was reassurance in the sight of people
gathering, without fear, in an unprotected area. He brought the gyro to
a landing in the cleared space of the square.

Nevertheless he took gun in hand when he came to the door. Cautiously
he opened it.

And saw a sight beyond believing.

These people were an impossibility! Dark haired people with silver
eyes--silver eyed people with vari-colored hair! A cross-breeding of
Olmen and Numen! It was absurd! Inconceivable!

A path opened in the throng for a man who was obviously the leader.
Like the others, he was an impossibility. He was tallest of all, with
silver eyes and his hair was long and incredibly red. There was a red
growth of hair on his chin where no Numan could grow hair.

"Welcome, strangers from beyond the Radiation. Welcome to York. I am
Jon, Elder of York."

A thrill pierced Allyn. He stared at the smiling man, the smiling
people behind him. No word had been spoken. Yet the words had been
clear in his brain.

Telepaths!

Marva gasped as she realized this too. "Why they aren't even surprised
to see us."

Jon's answer was benign. "We know why you are here. You have not
closed your minds to us. We knew that someday the Radiation would be
conquered. It was predicted that generations would become acclimated to
radioactivity and eventually find it no different to their systems than
air or water."

The thought was startling. But it gave the voyagers new hope. Perhaps
they would here find a weapon to shatter the dome! Perhaps find new
life for Nuwomen! Eagerly they came out of the gyro.

That was their error. The Senior-Gard hurled to the door, catching
the handle with his chained hands. Keeven turned. Too late! The door
slammed shut. The Olman struck at the door with fists like battering
rams. To no avail. The gyro hummed, lifted straight up, and went
winging back toward the Barrier.

"They're going for reinforcements!" Agitated Allyn turned to Jon.
"They'll return and attack your town."

The Elder's eyes twinkled. "There is no fear in York. Come to my
dwelling. You will eat, and perhaps we can help you find what you seek."

He led the way to one of the strange red colored houses. Inside were
fabric hangings over the windows, and fabric covering the floor and
furniture. Allyn found it colorful, but too barbaric for his own
austere taste. The Elder's mate, a silver haired woman with friendly
blue eyes came to serve them.

Over the dishes of unfamiliar, but steamingly good food, Jon told of
the ancient records preserved in the archives. The records told of
the Originals of the Earth, a mighty but warlike race. Their terrible
weapons had laced the earth with Bands of Radiation whose rays had
changed the genes of mankind. The Numen were evolved from this. But
many Originals had gone underground, in lead-impregnated shelters,
staying there for countless generations. These were the Olmen,
untouched by the first and strongest radiations.

In York, when the Olmen came again to the surface, they found the
Numen decreasing as their women died in childbirth. At first there
was antagonism between the groups but, on several occasions younger
and more lustful Numen seized Olwomen, and from that mating it was
discovered that only in cross-breeding was there survival.

"Our medics," the Elder explained, "have found that pure breeding of
Numen created a negative factor in the blood of the unborn child.
These negative antibodies erupted into the positive bloodstream of
the mother, causing a jaundiced condition that affects the brain,
leading to death in labor. Yet that same X-condition goes through
transformation in the baby's system after the birth eruption so
that, by the age of one year, the child is of positive blood. The
weird X-factor holds true only in pure Numan breeding, seldom in
cross-breeding."

But Keeven said moodily, "The Numen will not believe this. They will
come with their gyros to destroy York for heresey." He leaned across
the table. "But there are weapons," he told the Elder. "Our legends say
there are weapons to blast the Nyloplast dome. If we are the victors,
Numen will have to listen."

Jon shook his head. "There are no weapons. They were destroyed by the
Originals when they saw how they had destroyed themselves. But there
is a way." He looked at Allyn. "It is a hard way--and dangerous, but
perhaps you can do it."

And he told them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hours later the three went back alone. Back to the lip of the radiant
crater. In quietness they waited.

Toward dawn, like dark glistening moths out of the radiance, came a
squadron of gyros. The leading craft spotted the figures below, dipped
and came down. The others hovered in space, watchful. When the lead
gyro landed, its door swung open and the red-cloaked Senior sprang out,
flame gun ready.

The trio raised their arms in surrender. In a moment they were disarmed
and hustled into the gyro. Their craft took the lead, rising high so
the pull above the Barrier would be lessened. Even so it took master
maneuvering to keep the ship steady till they were through.

Within the hour the Nyloplast dome came shimmering into view. At a
signal over the communication system, the top-right section leading to
the hangars slid open, and the gyros droned through. When they landed,
the captives were prodded out of the hangar into the dazzling morning
light reflected more brilliantly from the Nyloplast screen.

The hygienic whiteness of the city struck Allyn forcefully, as though
he viewed it for the first time. They were led to a large, gleaming
white building, into a high vaulted audience room. Straight ahead was
the dais of marbleized seats where the Logicians met in Council. They
sat there now, in full knowledge that Allyn would be in judgment before
them. Metas, in skull cap and robes of judgment, sat in the center,
regarding them with cold eyes.

Allyn lifted a hand in salute of respect.

The Council was silent.

Drawing a deep breath Allyn glanced once at Keeven and Marva who were
flanked by watchful Gards. "I bring hope for our people," he began and
quickly recounted his adventures past the Barrier.

The council listened dispassionately. With sinking heart Allyn realized
his words were in vain. Numan belief in the animalism of Olman was too
deep set. Mate with the beast! He saw the distaste in their expressions.

"You go beyond the bounds of taste," Metas warned. "There is only one
reason you are still alive, Allyn. You must consent to the mating as
decreed."

"I cannot. It would mean Aleena's death. Besides, I love Marva of the
Olmen."

Horror rippled through the Council.

"Take them to the Syko Room!" Metas thundered. "I will administer Hypno
myself."

They were dragged to a side door, down a narrow corridor, into the
thick doored syko room. Allyn knew it well--those white walls cunningly
concealing lights and mirrors to stun the mind. The padded tables with
bands of iron. He was pushed to a table, strapped down, flat on his
back. Marva started toward him, but was flung back by a Gard and forced
to stand against the wall beside her brother, while their captors stood
with flame guns ready.

The stony faced Chief Logician adjusted switches. Lights dimmed.
Mirrors of various colors danced light spots before Allyn's eyes. He
felt his senses swimming. He clenched his fists. Sweat stood out on his
brow.

Metas leaned over him, soft voiced, soothing. Allyn's mind strained
against the lure. There was something he had to remember--a lesson,
important as life itself.

Oh, how the lights spun! If he could sleep! Sleep! The voice
lured--sleep!

"Allyn! RESIST!" Marva's voice! Then a Gard's fist silenced her.

RESIST! The key. Jon's words: "They can't hypno you unless you already
believe. Don't believe! Resist!"

Then he fought back. Against the soothing sibilance. Against the
dancing lights. He turned his thoughts inward, to things of his
childhood, to sights he had seen; gray rats chasing a man; an empty
cradle in an empty hut; Marva sweet in his arms, perfume in her
hair.... And his teeth were clenched over his lips. The pain was cruel,
relentless. His nails in his palms. Pain and memory to fight sleep!

And he won!

The full white light flashed on. The siren voices died. The promising
lights were defeated. He blinked his tired, weighted eyes. And Metas
stood there.

"You have not succumbed," the Logician whispered. His face was haggard
with strain. "No one has ever resisted hypno."

He turned to one of the Gard: "Bring Aleena." Bitter-eyed he said to
Allyn, "Perhaps your consent will come quicker if the medics work on
your sister."

"Metas," Allyn strained against his bonds, "if you harm her I will
bring the Dome crashing about us."

The Logician leaned forward: "Ah, then you found the weapons of the
Originals."

"No, only the power of the York folk...."

"If they are so mighty, why did they not cross the Barrier?"

"They need a vessel." Allyn tried to explain: "It is like transmitting
and receiving waves. They will transmit, and through me you will
receive super-sonics that will shatter the dome."

Metas laughed.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was hopeless. Talk would never convince him. The door opened. They
brought Aleena in. She started at sight of her brother, and her face
went pale. But they pushed her roughly to a table and began to strap
her down.

Allyn shut his eyes against the room, shut his ears against sound. He
flung open his mind, cancelling all imagery, so the York folk could
come through.

"Jon! Jon of York!" Out against the miles he hurled his voiceless plea.
Over and over he called.

Gentle tendrils touched his brain. At first it was like a whisper.
There were no words. But the whisper grew--grew to crescendo. It pulled
at every nerve in his body, used every particle that composed him. He
shook with vibrations. His body was a stringed weapon out of which
poured wares pitched too high for hearing. He was blind and deaf and
mute--an empty vessel from which poured destruction.

He did not know how long he was gone out of the shell of his body.
Slowly, gradually, his trembling stilled. Identity settled back inside
him. Sound came back. Over and over, the soft sobbing of his name:
"Allyn! Allyn!"

Hazily the room came to focus. Vague outlines of a face above him.
Featureless, at first. Dark hair, all atumble, dark eyes aglisten with
tears. His cheek was wet with her tears.

"Marva," his voice came hardly out of him.

Behind her the Logicians were grouped, white and sick of face.

"You cracked the dome!" Metas' words were hoarse ill past believing.

_Cracked the dome!_

He could have shouted. Had he been free he might have danced. He sent a
voiceless thanks to the Redbearded Elder. "We've done it."

His eyes shone. "Now do you believe," he cried aloud, "now will you
admit that York folk who could achieve such power could achieve
survival. Give us a year," he asked, "a year of grace--a chance to
prove they were right."

The room was still.

The answer he asked was past all teachings, past ingrained traditions.
Would they consent?

The whispered amongst themselves. Allyn's eyes went to Marva, to
Keeven, and to the newly freed Aleena. Their glances on him were wide,
troubled and hopeful, anxious and eager. They barely breathed as Metas
came away from his group.

"Allyn," he said, "you are a throwback so you would be willing to mate
with an Olman. But who amongst us would do likewise?"

"I will!"

The answer, proud and unhesitating, came from Aleena. And her eyes were
on Keeven. "I do not find Olmen as bestial as our tales have warned."

Keeven's breath caught. He leaned forward drinking sight of the filmy
clad beauty as a wanderer at sight of his home.

Metas made a sign and Allyn smiled.

They had won. He could sleep now, and be well content. For, within the
year, a twofold experiment would come to fruition. And a new era of
brotherhood would come to earth, bringing the furthest star within the
reach of Man.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LAND BEYOND THE FLAME ***

***** This file should be named 63713-0.txt or 63713-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/7/1/63713/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

