ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of Tepondicon, by Carl Jacobi

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Tepondicon

Author: Carl Jacobi

Release Date: November 18, 2020 [EBook #63799]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TEPONDICON ***




                              TEPONDICON

                            By CARL JACOBI

           He was not the savior-type. He certainly did not
            crave martyrdom. Yet there was treasure beyond
          price in these darkened plague-cities of Ganymede,
                 if a man could but measure up to it.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1946.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


By seven o'clock, Earth-time, I could distinctly see the first plague
city of Profaldo. In the grey light it lay there before me, a vague
opalescent aura radiating from its spires and minarets. The three roads
that crossed the flat converged on the city to meet at a single narrow
runway.

I drove the tracto-car down into a little gully, climbed out and took
a second look through my magnoscope. The flat was deserted, as it well
should be at this hour, and the only sign of life was a high-flying
<i>tok</i>, circling slowly.

It took me only five minutes to make preparations for my entrance into
Profaldo. The carefully wound coil of volocized wire slipped down
neatly under my tunic. Suspended from my left shoulder was a haversack,
innocent appearing, but containing one of the seven transmitting sets,
also a complete set of tools. I removed three of the white pellets
from the little glass vial in my pocket and swallowed them. And, for
emergency, I slid a heat pistol into another pocket.

Then I set out across the flat. Distance was deceptive, but I had
calculated fairly closely, and an hour later saw me pacing up the
runway to the entrance of Profaldo.

The guard in the cubicle stared when I stood before him. "You're not a
citizen here," he said. "Do you know what place this is?"

"I know very well," I said. "Here are my papers, signed by the High
Ganymedian Council. Let me pass, please."

The gate slid back, and an instant later I was inside the city.

<tb>

Profaldo! Plague-ridden, feared, legendary! Like its six sister cities,
the place was known throughout the System as a pest-hole, tenanted
by doomed citizenry whose very futility of life made a mockery of
everything decent and law-abiding.

Twenty yards down the street, and I saw indeed that the city was one
vast slum. Gambling holes-in-the-wall stood cheek by jowl with sinister
drink shops, all of them roaring full blast. A drooling fog that dimmed
the intermittent blue street lights gave a grotesque unreality to the
thoroughfare.

Here and there were groups of the inhabitants. Only a few showed
visible signs of the horrible plague,--the greenish, leprous hue to the
face and eyes, the disjointed, shambling walk--but I knew that all of
them had the disease in one or more of its stages.

Following the directions I had memorized so carefully, I went straight
down the street, turned left, then right. Yes, there it was. A
slate-gray building, well out of plumb, with a dingy sign before the
doorway: POWER DIVISION.

I went in. There were no ushers, no reception clerks, only a faint
drone of machinery somewhere below me. A long corridor angled in either
direction with marked doors every few feet. The sixth door bore the
marking: COMMISSIONER.

Even as I looked upon the room's occupant, I knew that this, my initial
step, would be a success. The man was a toad of flesh with little pig
eyes and albino hair. He put down the glass from which he had been
swilling liquor and glared at me. "Complaint department down the hall,"
he said. "This is a private office."

I crossed to the chair beside his desk and sat down. "I'm George
Dulfay," I said quietly, "the new inspector sent by the Council. Will
you sign my papers, please?"

He scowled again and peered at me shrewdly through blood-shot eyes,
but, after a careless glance at the document I had handed him, he
seized a stylus and affixed his signature. Then he raised his eyes to
mine.

"New man, eh?" he grinned. "And what do you think of our fair city?"

"It stinks."

My words prompted no reproach from him. He leaned back and made
steeples of his hands. "Everything's the same," he said. "Four
hundred deaths, four hundred births. One attempted escape resulting
in execution. Flood-water"--he glanced across at the far wall where a
panel bore a series of dials--"water 65.0, oxygen zero-zero, paldine 5."

"And the research bureau?" I questioned. So far, I knew I was playing
my part to satisfaction.

He snorted. "Failures as usual. You and the Council know as well as I
do that there's no cure for the plague."

It was time for the first step, but I didn't hurry it. I got a cheroot
out of my pocket, lit it and blew a shaft of smoke toward the mildewed
ceiling.

"I'll okay the report as usual," I said. "But there's one thing
more. I'll want to buy some of your power. About sixteen thousand
<i>graphlos</i>...."

A wire couldn't have jerked him erect any quicker. "Power!" he
repeated. "Sixteen thousand...." A gleam entered his blood-shot eyes.
"By the Lord Harry! And for what, may I ask?"

I could feel my pulse racing and a hot flush sweep over me, but
outwardly I knew I appeared cool.

"If your Research Bureau here believes there is no cure for the
plague, the Council has different ideas," I said. "We're going to try
an experiment. Sixteen thousand <i>graphlos</i> of polarated power at each
of the seven cities discharged along a common beam with a step-up
transformer between each city. Gargan--he's the new light-ray man in
the Council--believes the radiation from such a charge will completely
nullify the potency of the plague bacillus."

The Commissioner moved to the edge of his chair. He poured himself a
glass of the lavender-colored liquor, drank it and wiped his mouth. "By
the Lord Harry," he said, "you're no inspector. Who the hell are you?"

"You have my papers."

He picked them up again and re-read them carefully. I watched him. I
could feel something cold move up and down my spine. And then with a
wave of relief I saw the first signs of credulity.

"I believe you mean it," he said. "Tell me, do you really think there's
a chance, an escape from this double-damned plague?"

"There's a possibility, but of course it's remote and only in the
embryonic stage. Of course you understand all this is confidential.
Now--where is your power switchboard?"

He touched a bell, said something into a microphone. Then he got up and
extended his hand. "Follow the corridor, Mr. Dulfay. And may Providence
go with you."

Outside the office, reaction seized me, and for a moment I swayed
there, aware of the terrific strain I had been under. The first barrier
was passed. From now on, although there still would be plenty of
danger, my actions for the most part would be routine. I threw away my
cheroot and headed down the corridor.

That corridor ended in a flight of stairs which I climbed to the second
level. Through an archway I passed into the power room proper. Tilted
back in a chair in front of the enormous switchboard, a weazened little
man nodded to me, signifying that he had had his instructions. I went
to work without hesitation, threw over the auxiliary switch, removed
the coil of wire from under my tunic and spliced it directly into the
main conduit.

Finished, I trailed the coil of wire across the room and tossed it out
the open window into the darkness of an alley. I went outside to gather
up the loose ends. A low shed there, housing emergency transformers,
served my purpose admirably. I got the compact little transmitting set
out of my haversack, bracketed it to the wall in a far corner and set
the clockwork to functioning.

Exactly one hour later I was back in my tracto-car, driving across the
flat.

<tb>

If a month ago anyone had told me I would visit not only Profaldo but
each of the seven plague-cities of the High Ganymedian Plateau, I would
have told them they were crazy. That was before I met Hol-Dai.

Hol-Dai was not his real name, of course; that was what they called him
at the mental hospital where I was serving my internship. A patriarch
of a man, one of the early Earth colonists, he had broken down from
excessive research in extraterrestrial medicine, and he was forever
browsing through heavy medical tomes. One day he began talking to me as
usual, and for want of something better to do, I listened.

"My son," he said, "you've heard of the seven plague-cities: Profaldo,
Senar, Caldray, Voltar, Xynan, Malakan, and Klovada?"

I nodded. "Yes, Hol-Dai. Here, take your medicine."

He swallowed the two pills and pointed to a sheet of paper upon which
he had been writing. "Did you know they were the richest cities in the
System?"

"Rich? No, Hol-Dai, you must be wrong. They have nothing but
pestilence."

<tb>

He smiled at that and waggled a finger. "The plague is their
protection, my son. Conquer that, and you will come upon the greatest
treasure known to mankind. Listen...."

Well, I heard him out, patiently at first, then gradually with more
and more interest. It was a madman's story in every detail, and yet
there was something about it that got me. I knew how the seven cities
of the High Ganymedian Plateau were first raided by Conway and his
Earth Brigade after enjoying several thousand years' culture on this,
the third satellite of Jupiter. How the captured emperor of the seven
cities swore a curse of vengeance for the mishandling of his people and
in some unknown way introduced the strange and terrible plague which
was to turn the seven metropoli into pest-holes avoided and shunned by
Earth and Jovian colonists alike.

Then Hol-Dai said something which made me prick up my ears. "Why," he
said, "do you think the emperor introduced that plague? For vengeance
alone? A ruler's vengeance does not go as far as dooming his people
forever. No, my son, for another reason."

I said nothing, waiting for him to continue.

"For three thousand years the seven cities had been living off the
plunder of conquered Io and Callisto, the first and second satellites.
And never has it occurred to these fools what has become of that
plunder."

"They probably will, Hol-Dai," I said. "Some day a fleet of space
freighters will carry it all off."

The white-haired old man shook his head. "Not a fleet, my son. A man in
the palm of his hand."

I sat down then, and I asked questions, and after a time I had the
story in its entirety. Both Io and Callisto had been conquered by
the people of Ganymede and had been forced to pay a huge indemnity.
Part of that indemnity came in the form of a stone, called by the
Ganymedians, the Jupiter Stone. That stone, protected by an envelope of
white <i>pinardium</i>, contained a compressed particle of the light-active
rock which formed Jupiter's great red spot. <i>And this stone contained
sufficient inexhaustible power to move the factories and industrial
plants of half the solar system.</i>

I forgot for a moment that Hol-Dai was listed as psychopathically
unbalanced. "Where is this stone?" I demanded.

"It lies in a simple glass case in the old emperor's palace in the city
of Klovada," he replied. "But"--he lifted a warning hand--"do not think
it is as simple as that. The people of the High Ganymedian Plateau were
aware of the value of their treasure and they adopted means to protect
it.

"They protected the stone by surrounding it with a small space warp. As
it lies there now, it is so heavy an army could not lift it."

"Then...?"

"How can it be removed? There is a way, my son, a dangerous, almost
impossible way, but one which I have spent my entire life planning. The
space warp has been devised to have seven focal points, lying along the
plane of the seven cities. I have devised transmitting equipment which
will discharge a beam along this plane, thus nullifying the space warp.
But, to accomplish this, entrance must be made into each of the seven
cities, and that would mean contracting the terrible plague in not one
but all seven of its virulent forms.

"I have taken care of that too. I have compounded a pellet which will
give temporary immunity to the plague if taken at the proper intervals
and...."

Here Hol-Dai's mind gave way again, and he lapsed into unintelligible
babbling.

I mulled over this story for a week. During that time I read over
Hol-Dai's case history and discovered that his lucid intervals were
fairly intermittent and complete. That is, when he was normal, he
remained so until he lost his grip entirely. Next I visited the
place where he had lived before he was confined to the hospital.
My credentials gained me entrance and the right to go through his
possessions. Nothing had been touched. I found his vial of immunity
pellets with full instructions as to dosage. And I found in his
equipment the seven miniature transmitting sets and the necessary
connecting wire. In his papers, however, I searched in vain for
reference to the Jupiter Stone.

But I didn't stop there. I haunted public libraries and the
archives-galleries, always seeking proof for everything Hol-Dai had
told me. Where I didn't always find proof, I found "possibility." The
old man's story could be true.

As I read over the history of Ganymede, the lure, the fascination of
that "stone" swept over me. It became a narcotic, off-setting all
other desires until I knew I must act. I took Hol-Dai's equipment and
his vial of pellets, and I spent one week studying the geographical
layouts of the seven cities. I drove in a tracto-car to the first city
of Profaldo, and as you have seen, I successfully "planted" the first
transmitting set.

"One down, six to go," I told myself grimly. Full confidence was mine,
and my spirits were riding high.

<tb>

Senar, the second city, came out of the haze abruptly. High in the sky
the immense disc of Jupiter cast a reddish light over the metropolis.
As before, all roads leading across the flat converged on a single
runway, leading to the main gate.

I entered, and it seemed time had turned backward, erasing the
intervening hours. For Senar was the same as Profaldo. The same roaring
drink shops and crowd-choked gambling casinos. The same twisting
despondent streets sunk in filth and mockery of the law.

Again I came to the building marked POWER DIVISION. In the
Commissioner's office, however, I was due for a surprise. A girl
turned to me inquiringly.

She was tall, svelte and dark-haired, with agate eyes that bored me
through and through. "Well?" she said.

The same story, the same explanation. I proffered my papers, waited a
diplomatic length of time, then stated that I wished to purchase some
power.

To my astonishment, however, she took the offer matter-of-factly.

"I know," she said. "You are Tepondicon."

"I'm <i>what</i>?"

She smiled. "At least you are the mortal counterpart of that legendary
figure. According to the Ganymedian legends, a great disaster was to
come upon our seven cities and would not be removed until a brave
warrior entered each of the cities and fought it alone. The legends
call that warrior Tepondicon."

"I see," I said. "And you think...?"

"We have the disaster all right in the form of the plague. Now you are
here in an attempt to conquer that plague." She waved a careless hand
at my consternation. "The Commissioner at Profaldo advised me of your
coming. We still do have some communication left, you know."

Tepondicon, eh? It made my role easier. It fitted into my plans nicely.
Before I could say more, she was conducting me down the corridor to the
power room. She stood by, watching over me, as for a second time I made
my necessary connections to the central conduit, and she followed me as
I mounted my second transmitting set on a low revetment in the rear of
the power building.

As I touched the clockwork into motion she grasped my arm.

"There is no need for you to leave immediately, Mr. Dulfay," she said.
"I know very well that you have temporary protection against the
plague. Won't you let me show you more of the city of Senar?"

My better judgment said no; my eyes said yes. She stood there smiling,
carmine lips a bow of allure, agate eyes gleaming. She was clad in a
dress of voltex, and the clinging material revealed every curve and
contour of her figure.

An hour later I found myself in a dimly lighted cafe, surrounded by
high-caste Ganymedians, Jovians and Earth men and women, all in
various stages of intoxication--all, I knew, seeking to conceal their
terror at the relentless death that stalked them.

I sat across a table from the Commissioner of Senar. She was drinking
<i>boca</i>, and she was laughing gayly.

"Come," she said, "forget your troubles. Remember, you are Tepondicon."

But something was wrong. I could feel it with every fibre of my body.
That man looking at me from the opposite table, for one thing. He had
been too casual in his quick appraisal of me, too quick to lower his
eyes when I glanced his way.

And then abruptly it hit me hard. I was Tepondicon, and as such,
my avowed attempt to cure the plague made me a valuable entity, if
controlled by the right persons. A group of power-crazed renegades
could, by holding me, make any terms they desired for my release.

I looked around carefully, seeking a means of escape; and I saw then
other men at other tables, covertly watching me. I drank a full glass
of <i>boca</i>, pretended to drink another, began to feign drunkenness. Then
clumsily I knocked the bottle from the table and staggered to my feet.

"Gotta get more," I hiccupped. "'S'cuse me, please."

Stumbling unsteadily, I weaved my way toward the bar. Halfway across to
it, I swiveled and broke into a run. Instantly a shout of warning rose
up behind me. Through the maze of tables I raced, overturning three of
them with a crash as I passed.

I gained the door. A heat-gun charge slammed into the wall, inches
above my head. Feet pounded in pursuit. Then I was outside, leaping up
the steps to the main level, sprinting down the back street.

I ran until a stitch in my side drew me up. Behind me roared the night
life of the city, but there was no sign of pursuit. I passed through
the main gate without trouble and half an hour later was driving
leisurely across the flat.

<tb>

Profaldo and Senar were behind me. What conditions would I meet in
the next city, Caldray? My wildest dreams did not prepare me for the
reception that was to be mine. Scarcely had I entered Caldray when I
stopped short, staring at the scene ahead. The streets were jammed
with citizenry. In blazing ato-bulbs high overhead was the single word
TEPONDICON. Flags and pennants hung from every balcony.

Even as I moved uncertainly forward, two stalwart men, clad in the
ancient chain mail of Ganymede's earlier years, strode forward. Back
somewhere in the tiers of rectangular buildings the amplified strains
of an orchestra rose up. It was a recording, I knew, but it was
Bokart's <i>Symphony Out of Space</i>, in all its pomp and glory.

A deafening cheer rose up then. I was conducted to a low carriage, and
with two scarlet-clad postilions on either side began my tour of the
city.

"Tepondicon! Tepondicon!" yelled the crowd.

Well, it was confusing, and disconcerting, too. With all eyes focused
upon me, my every movement would be watched. A wrong word, a misstep,
and those cheers would change to death yells. And yet as the carriage
bore me smoothly along the paved streets, the significance of it all
became clear in my mind in every detail.

These people were rats, scum of the System. What matter if their
hopes were falsely raised to the heights? They were doomed anyway by
the plague. And in four days more the Jupiter Stone would be mine.
Up until now, my life had been one great series of failures. At the
Martian School of Technology I had been expelled in my sophomore year
for a mere matter of selling drugs to my fellow students. I had been
cashiered from the Royal Space Force for what the upstart officers
called insubordination. Gamblings, swindlings, I had tried them all
with little luck. This would be my metamorphosis, my emergence from the
cocoon of mediocrity into success.

The procession drew up before the Power Division building. The Power
Commissioner, a tall gangly man this time, waited to receive me at the
top of the steps.

But inside his office, with the roar and hubbub of the streets cut off,
the interview was much the same as the two previous. He passed a box of
cheroots across the desk, leaned back and smoked contentedly.

"And to think," he said, "that a week ago I was ready to join the list
of suicides. Mr. Dulfay, I wonder if you realize what this means to
the people. Freedom from the plague. It seems incredible."

"You must remember," I cautioned, "It's only an experiment as yet. I
can promise nothing."

He waved this aside. "You will be successful," he said. "The hopes of
thousands cannot be denied. And now the power. All we have is at your
disposal."

<tb>

Voltar! Xynan! Malakan! In the fourth, fifth and sixth cities
everything worked like clockwork. My welcome in each succeeding
metropolis was greater than the last. Crowds screamed "<i>Tepondicon!</i>"
to the echo. The cities must have ransacked every corner of their
confines to festoon their battlements and parapets with tinsel. Hope
was hysteria. The black spectre of the plague was pushed to the
background. As the legendary hero, Tepondicon, I was the embodiment of
all their dreams and hopes.

Before entering each city I swallowed three of Hoi-Dai's pellets.
Before leaving, I tapped the power centers and put transmitting sets in
operation.

And now Klovada, the seventh and final city. In a few hours my beam
would be discharged along the planes of the seven cities. The space
warp would be nullified. Remained then only to go to the royal palace,
open the glass case and remove the Jupiter Stone. With that stone my
life would begin anew. No more swindlings or petty thieveries. I would
be king in my own right.

I did not realize the strain under which I had been living until the
official reception in Klovada was over and I was ushered into the
Commissioner's office. There I slumped wearily into a chair and waited
impatiently for him to enter.

The Commissioner was a girl. Not a girl like the seductress of Senar,
but a small dainty child with golden hair and blue eyes. She strode
forward briskly, a pleasant smile on her lips, and extended her hand.

"I bid you welcome, Sir Tepondicon," she said. "You have reached the
end of your goal."

There was something in her tone of voice that made me look at her
sharply. Could it be possible that she suspected...?

"You have come a long way," she said, speaking slowly. "You have
braved many dangers, and you have conducted yourself in a most ethical
manner. May I ask, Mr. Dulfay, what your personal profit will be in
this venture?"

"No profit," I said easily. "A scientist has only research as his aim.
That and the welfare of the people."

She nodded. "Still, it is unusual for a man to risk so much."

"About the matter of power," I broke in. "As you know, I'll need
sixteen thousand <i>graphlos</i> and...."

She seemed not to hear. A distant look entered her blue eyes. "Tell me,
Mr. Dulfay, have you ever heard of an artifact kept here in Klovada
known as the Jupiter Stone?"

I went slowly rigid. The girl breathed deeply and continued. "Some
time ago a great scientist communicated with me as overchief of
power-control of the seven cities and outlined a plan similar to the
one in which you are now engaged. He was a great man, but under stress
of excessive work, his mind broke. He was taken to a mental hospital,
where I am told he is now known by the simple name of Hol-Dai.

"Before his illness Hol-Dai worked out a method to overcome the plague.
It was simple. A person would visit each of the seven cities. He would
have temporary protection against the plague, but of course he would
become a carrier for the germs. When he finally reached Klovada, the
final city, he would be a walking vial of the bacillus in all its seven
forms.

"Now the Jupiter Stone, of which I spoke before. It is a great thing,
capable of generating untold amounts of power, if properly harnessed.
So far, however, the scientists have been unable to move it because
it lies protected by a small but peculiar form of space warp. But the
stone has other potentialities. This man, Hol-Dai, discovered that it
will transform the plague bacillus from a positive form to a negative
form.

"In other words if this hypothetical visitor of the seven cities were,
at the end of his journey, to expose himself to the radiations of
the Jupiter Stone, a curious event would take place. He would become
a carrier for bacilli which, when released, would immediately begin
to combat the plague. Practically an anti-toxin, you see. Again,
continuing our hypothetical case, if this man were to retrace his
steps, again visiting each of the seven cities, it is estimated this
action would result in the complete end of the plague within a period
of months."

"I see," I said. Far back in a corner of my mind a doubt was beginning
to grow. "Why hasn't this been done before?"

She smiled. "Because until you came no one knew how to acquire
temporary protection against the disease and no one had the courage to
expose himself to it without that protection. Now I am aware that you
have found that protection. But as you must know, if you let yourself
be struck by the radiations of the Jupiter Stone, you would die within
six weeks!"

"You mean...?"

"I mean that if you go through with your role as Tepondicon you will
never live to know your glory."

<tb>

She tapped her pencil on the desk. "I might add that Hol-Dai also told
us of a plan to nullify the space warp surrounding the Jupiter Stone.
Since his sickness, however, that plan has remained a mystery."

I breathed easier. So Hol-Dai had not tricked me. But this girl with
all her babbling of curing the plague must be an utter fool. What did I
care about cure? It was the stone I wanted!

She looked across at me. "I don't know who or what you are, Mr. Dulfay,
but please listen to me a moment. Once these seven cities were the
pride of the Jovian System. Their people were lighthearted, gay and
strong. True, in their earlier years they exploited their neighbors
on Io and Callisto, but that was long ago. For generations they were
engaged in peaceful pursuits--trade, industry, commerce.

"Look at them now. Pest-holes where vice and sin run rampant, where
hope has vanished, where there is no tomorrow, but only today!
Conceive, if you can, the utter curse of that plague. To know with
absolute finality that you are impregnated with it and that only death
awaits you. And then consider this legend of Tepondicon. Not a mighty
warrior, not a knight clad in armor, but a simple man sacrificing his
own life for the lives of other men. It is the ultimate glory."

She rose to her feet. "Mr. Dulfay, I leave you now. But I call your
attention to the two doors leading from this office. The one by which
you came is the exit. It leads to the street, and from the street one
can make his way to the palace and so on to the Jupiter Stone. The
stone is unguarded. If the space warp were done away with, it could be
taken easily.

"The other door leads to the radiation chamber, the room which
was devised by Hol-Dai. There, by means of special equipment, the
radiations from the Jupiter Stone are transmitted to a screen. If you
enter this room and sit before the screen, within a period of twenty
minutes the plague germs your body is now carrying will be negatived.
You can then make your return visits to the six other cities. The
plague will be conquered, but you will die."

She moved across to the exit. "It is for you to decide," she said. "All
I can say is that one way leads to the ultimate glory."

She went out and I stood there in a daze. For five minutes I didn't
move. Glory, she had said. Yes, there would be glory, something which
had played no part heretofore in my life. But likewise there would be
death. The same death which awaited the doomed citizenry of the seven
doomed cities. On the other hand was the Jupiter Stone, embodying all I
had fought for.

I walked across to the desk and sat down in the chair before it. I
must put my thoughts and actions of the past days on paper. I must
record everything. If I chose the plague door, it would be my last
testament--and a monument. If I took the street door, set up my
transmitting set--and finally gained the Jupiter Stone, it would be
a condemnation--a curse--to dog me the rest of my days. Honor versus
dishonor, balanced against life versus death.

<i>It is this document you are now reading!</i>

At the end of an hour I stood up and neatly folded the paper. The air
was hot, stifling. Somewhere a mercury clock pulsed rhythmically. Then,
with a little laugh, I strode across the room toward one of the doors.

Of course, you all know which door I opened.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TEPONDICON ***

***** This file should be named 63799-0.txt or 63799-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/7/9/63799/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

