ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of Spider Men of Gharr, by Wilbur S. Peacock

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Spider Men of Gharr

Author: Wilbur S. Peacock

Release Date: December 05, 2020 [EBook #63826]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPIDER MEN OF GHARR ***




                          Spider Men of Gharr

                         By WILBUR S. PEACOCK

          Kimball Trent was the last hope of a ravaged Earth,
            for locked in his mind were secrets that would
             bring freedom to the Barbs. He lacked but one
         thing to release the power of those secrets--the key
         to the riddle of the blue monsters who could not die.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1945.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


At first there was only the cold, the Stygian inky iciness that held
every muscle of his body in thrall and made his thoughts flow with the
turgid slowness of treacly molasses. He could not open his eyes, nor
could he move; and his mind slipped back into the darkness time and
time again. He tried to think of who he was, or _what_ he was, and
there was no knowledge in his brain.

And then the heat came through to him, biting into his numbed flesh
with the bitter sharpness of a naked yellow flame, drawing life to all
his body, pressing back some of the velvet shadows from his mind.

"_Kim_," he thought dazedly. "_I'm Kim._"

And then his mind blanked out again, for how long, he did not know. But
when he came to, he could open his eyes and see the faintest glimmer of
sunlight coming through the split and ruptured earth, tiny dust motes
floating in the golden streak.

"_I'm Kim_," he thought again, and held onto the memory with a frantic
desperation, frightened that it was the only reality he had.

He moved at last, screaming at the agony that surged with every
movement, finally rolled into a sitting position. There was but the
barest glint of light from the earth fault, and his eyes grew strained
as he peered about.

He was in a cave, obviously artificial, for there were shelves loaded
with dully-gleaming objects, and man-hewn blocks of stone lay upturned
where great strangling roots squirmed into the air like monstrous scaly
snakes.

He looked at himself.

His hands were talons now, for the nails were curled and twisted into
tangled knots, and the flesh had not the resiliency or the strength to
straighten the fingers. He bent his head, watched fabric disintegrate
into dust on his emaciated body, then gasped. Great festoons of
the dust had not powdered into nothingness, and he recognized that
they were the swirls of beard that hung pendant from his chin. He
straightened, mind trying to grasp what had happened, and the hair from
his head swirled about his shoulders, rippling in undulant waves into
the clump of tangled masses that lay at his side.

He tried to swallow, but his throat was dry, his tongue swollen.
The terrible cold was still in him, and he shivered agonizingly for
seconds. It was then he heard the sound of rilling water close at hand.

He crawled toward the sound, tangling hands and feet in the hair that
grew so monstrously from his head, his fingernails scrabbling and
clicking together like the whisperings of bare branches before a soft
Winter breeze.

"_I'm Kim_," he thought again, and drank with great slobbering noises
from the narrow shallow stream that pierced one wall of the cave and
vanished through the opposite.

Thirst slaked, he lay, gasping, like some spent animal, thoughts
swelling and unfolding in his mind, creeping unbidden from dark
recesses, stealing into the brightness of his consciousness.

"I'm Kim," he thought. "Kimball Trent."

He sat, groaning from the hurt that was in every muscle, methodically
broke the twisted fingernails close to his finger tips, permitting his
fingers to flex more freely, giving him hands once more instead of
paws. He tried to break his heavy hair and beard the same way, but his
strength was not enough for that, and he searched for something that
would free him of the burden.

       *       *       *       *       *

He found the knife almost where he had waked. The plastic haft was
pitted with corrosion, and there was but a scrap of the incredibly hard
steel left; but with it he managed to hack away his beard and hair,
leaving both less than a foot long.

He felt a bit better now, some of the pain easing from his body, the
tiny warm breeze slipping through the earth fault touching him and
giving life to him in passing.

Standing, moving with agonizing slowness, he staggered toward the
source of light, clawed at the sides of the fault. Earth crumbled
beneath his hands, dropped about his bare feet. He fought the imbedded
rocks, pulled them free, then scratched his way out of the cave,
dragging himself into the sunlight, blinking against the radiance.

He lay on the velvety-smooth green grass, breathing deeply, his lean
body etched with shadows as though it had received no sustenance for a
long time. A redbird watched silently from the clump of green bushes
at his side, then hopped fearlessly into cover again, trilling its
warbling melody to the sky.

A squirrel chittered inquisitively from the limb of a towering tree,
then flicked out of sight with a toss of its bushy tail. The breeze was
warm and soothing, and Kimball Trent slept.

       *       *       *       *       *

He awoke to sunlight again, stretching with the uneasy flexing of an
animal, then snapped to awareness with a movement that almost brought
him to his feet. Pain gushed through his body in red waves, and he sank
back with a stifled groan.

And as though the pain had been a curtain before his brain, it parted,
and he could think again.

He looked around, trying to adjust his memories to what he saw. He was
in timber, great leafy trees towering over his head, the grass and
bushes thick and green upon the ground. He saw the huge monolithic
rock directly before him, and his mind could not comprehend what had
happened.

Only yesterday there had been no trees; that rock had stood alone in
the clearing he had made with axe and saw.

And even the rock had changed. Now the edges were not sharp and
angular; now they were softened and worn, like a blocky cake of salt
that had stood in the summer rain.

He rose to his feet, went to where the heavy metal door had been. It
was gone, covered with soil, the earth matted with grass and flowers.
He turned away, panic eating at his heart, walked to the earth fault
through which he had burrowed like a worm.

Shuddering, he went into the hole, slipping, scrambling, stood upright
in the darkness, adjusting his eyes to the lack of light. He saw the
radi-flash on the stony floor, bent and clicked it on. The cone of
yellow brilliance went twice about the chamber, came to the wheel that
no longer turned before the surge of pressure from water rushing along
its underground course.

He bent over it, marvelling at the wear that had come to the plastic
hub, remembering how utterly indestructible it was. He allowed his gaze
to travel along the refrigerating tubes that spider-webbed the ceiling
and walls. They were dry, no longer coated with sheaths of hoar-frost.
The air was still cold, though, and he shivered in his nakedness.

Then he saw the broken refrigerating pipe, and full knowledge of what
had happened flooded his mind. He had been repairing the pipe, had just
taken the first twist of the nut, when it had exploded in his face,
cascading silvery liquid over his entire body---liquid so perfectly
heat-absorbent it froze anything and everything within a split second
after contact.

Kimball Trent whimpered deep in his throat, appalled at the death
that he had escaped by inches. Evidently the liquid had not more than
brushed him in passing.

He turned to the shelves, reaching for the cans, kicking aside the heap
of hair that touched his foot.

He broke the seal on the first can, placed it aside, feeling the heat
burgeoning from the built-in cooking unit. Then he opened other cans,
ripping away the plastic seals, gorging himself on the cold soups and
ripe succulent vegetables. Partially sated, he opened the heated can,
used the knife remnant as a fork with which to feed himself on the
preserved beef and beans.

Satisfied, he breached a small cask of water, drank thirstily and
avidly; then turned away. The radi-light cut brightness through
the dark, and he went along the wall, removing covers from five
radi-lights, glad that they were eternal. With shadows driven from the
chamber, and with his belly fed, he felt more like a man and less like
an animal.

The first door of the underground fortress stuck a bit, and he had to
swing his weight against it. The portal swung open in a gushing of damp
air, and automatically, he flicked the air-conditioning switch. Far
away, deeper in the ground, machinery began to hum, and clean air began
forcing out the bad.

Trent clicked on the ceiling lights, staring about the mammoth cavern
as though he had never seen it before. It stretched so far away from
him that his eyes could make out no details at the far end. Along
one side, doors opened into the living quarters where more than ten
thousand people were destined to live. Further back were the open
kitchens where communal meals would be prepared; and still further back
where his eyes could make out no detail were the machine shops where
weapons to fight the Gharrians would be conditioned and manufactured.

He was smiling as he looked about; for this was his dream brought to
realization by the wealth that had come to him from his father. His
money had built this retreat, his money and the hands of a thousand
men. Here, within this man-made cavern, would be the refuge for those
people who escaped the ravages of the monsters whose sleek vicious
ships had wiped New York and London and Berlin from the face of the
Earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

He went toward the great televisors, wondering how many stations still
broadcast news of the holocaust that had come to the world. A frown
tightened dark brows when he saw the dust that lay on the floor, became
a scowl when he saw how it was heaped before the main receiver. He
kicked at the dust, saw the signet ring that had fallen through it.

Bending, Kimball Trent lifted the gold ring, studied it. Doctor Boyliss
had worn it the last time they had talked; it was strange that he
should find it here.

He sat in the chair, switched on the main televisor, relaxed as warmth
came from the screen, color glowing from green into violet, swirling
into the indescribable shade of blue that gave the screen its three
dimensional depth of focus.

His hand went to the "repeat" switch, flicked it.

"This is Doctor Boyliss speaking for the last time," a familiar voice
said tiredly from the speaker, while the screen showed no figure. "I
have just escaped from the Gharrians, but the wound I have received
is mortal, and I can live but moments." There was only the sound of
labored breathing for seconds, then the voice continued.

"Most of the leaders are dead, betrayed by spies; only three of us
escaped the Gharrian's last raid. Thompson and Fortney have elected to
act as guides for the few of you who might escape the final series of
raids. I hope that many of you are listening to these final words of
mine.

"Kimball Trent is also dead, frozen to death by an explosion in the
Refrigerator Room, Number One; therefore his knowledge must be replaced
by the minds of those among you."

A surge of terrible wracking coughing sounded, followed by the sobbing
gasps of a man dying of an agonizing wound. Then:

"One final word. Fight the Gharrians, blast them from the face of
Earth, drive them back into hell-space that spawned them. Battle them
with every weapon and scheme within your power to use. My blessings
upon all of you. Go with God--"

There was only the faintest of thudding sounds, and then silence.

Kimball Trent leaned back in the chair, twisting the ring over and over
in his fingers, horror piling upon horror in his mind. His gaze flicked
to the perpetual radi-calendar beside the screen, and he read the date,
June 9, 2735.

He gasped, knowing now the answer to many things, his mind accepting
the thought that he would not believe before, one that he had stifled
with all his will because it was so fantastic. He shuddered, gaze
racing about the crypt-stillness of the room, and fear knotted the
muscles of his heart.

He knew now why his beard and hair had been so uncannily long and why
his body had withered and grown emaciated through the passage of what
had seemed a few hours. He knew now why the dust had been throughout
the room, and he knew why the ring had been in the greater dust pile
that lay before the screen.

He knew that he had been held in frozen thrall, had been kept
miraculously alive, like a fish frozen in a block of ice, by the
instantaneous freezing of his body by the refrigerant. He knew that the
primitive water-wheel attached to the machinery of the refrigerating
room had kept the room at a below zero temperature until it had stopped
when the water flow had dropped below the wheel by slow degrees.

Yes, he had the answers to everything now.

This was June 2735--and the accident had befallen him in August 2210.

He had slept in frozen suspended animation for more than five hundred
years.

He was alive, and the men and women with whom he had fought the
Gharrians were dead and dust for centuries. He was alive, and the
refuge he had built had never been used. He was alive--_and alone_.


                                  II

Nine days had passed since Kimball Trent's awakening. He was more alert
now, the flat muscles of his body swelling again because of the rich
solid food that he ate to replenish his strength. He had found razors
and cream and had shaved, and with scissors he had given his unruly
dark mane of hair a close cropping, leaving it only long enough that it
did not drop over his eyes.

The nine days had been busy; for he had spent hours at the televisor,
trying vainly to pick up any messages that might be sent by enemy or
friend. He had found clothing still good in their air-tight lockers,
had strapped on a flame gun automatically, still unable to make himself
believe that five centuries had passed in the few short moments of
eternity that he had been unconscious.

He stood now before the televisor, turning off the visual screen,
cutting in the automatic relay that would record any scene or message
that came through in his absence. He knew that none would arrive; but
there was in his heart something that would not admit total defeat.

He shrugged the small food pack into a more comfortable position on
his wide shoulders, lifted the radi-needle gun and looped it from his
right shoulder by the sling. Slowly, then with greater determination,
he began to walk to the door that led to the refrigerator room.

He entered the room, climbed through the earth fault to the outside,
carefully replacing the camouflage mat he had made to cover the
entrance. Standing straight and tall in the warm sunlight, he checked
his wrist compass, then paced lightly forward through the trees.

His strength was almost fully returned now, and he walked with the
lithe grace of an Indian, slipping through the underbrush and foliage
with but the barest of sounds to mark his passing. Light trickled
through the trees, caressed his back, brought perspiration to his
forehead. His face was hard and grim, and his eyes keen, as he searched
the woods about for the slightest of signs that would betoken a hidden
watcher.

His shadow walked before him, sliding through other shadows, then
standing out bold and deep in the sunlit places. The webbing of his
chest harness pressed against the rippling muscles of his flesh, and
the flame pistol bounced slightly on his hip with every step.

He checked his compass again, then turned due south, cutting through
the timber, finding open fields two miles further where the walking was
much easier. Rabbits sat in curious wide-eyed watchfulness as he walked
through the waving green grass that carpeted the fields, but he gave
them no heed, his eyes watching the skies for signs of a crimson ship.

He was a stranger in his native land. Land contours seemed different
now, since the timber had come up unheeded. The old roads and paths
that he had walked as a boy and man were gone, absorbed through the
passing of years. He traveled entirely by compass, swinging to the east
after two hours of hard traveling.

The smell of water came to the air, cloying it with dampness, making
it somehow fragrant. A hundred yards further, and he was on the bank,
gazing across the muddy flood. He turned to his right, and far ahead
was New York.

He swore then, cursing in the tight voice of a man who feels a hurt so
deeply that it is a physical pain. His hands clenched at his sides, and
the muscles of his chest glided upward against the straps.

There was no superb skyline now; gone were the gleaming white spheres
and golden columns and blocky marble and plastic shafts that were
famous the world over. No smoke hung high in the sky over the city;
only a few white clouds floated in graceful indifference where great
strato-liners had flashed on pinions of gushing rocket flames.

There was a skyline, yes, but it hugged the ground, and it was only
the skeleton of the greatest city on earth. Even from where he stood,
Kimball Trent could see that buildings had toppled one against the
other when the concussion guns of the Gharrians had roared their song
of death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kimball Trent began to walk with great ground-eating strides. He could
see where the supports of the great bridges were on either bank further
south; but the spans had been blown away, and he knew that to cross the
river would mean swimming or constructing some kind of raft on which to
float and paddle.

Instinctively, he unslung his rifle, held it in both hands, the
prescience of danger a cold and clammy hand that squeezed his heart and
tightened the nerves in his rangy body.

He came to a cut-back, where water had washed a deep gully to the
river. He had stepped from the bushes and poised on the edge.

Then he saw the girl.

She was trapped, huddling back against the base of the far wall,
slender hands outspread at either side, wide terrified eyes watching
the alien monstrosity stalk her with a dreadful calmness. She wore
a belted skirt of soft leather, laced sandals and a tight halter of
blue leather. Red-gold hair hung in a cloud of brilliance about her
shoulders, swirled, as she turned.

She made no outcry, all of her attention on the beast that stalked her
with heavy mincing steps.

Kimball Trent swore softly, lifted his gun, then let it sag in
futility. Only too well did he know how invulnerable these Gharrians
were to any weapon Earthmen had devised. Radi-needles could not
penetrate their steel-hard hide, and high-explosives merely bounced
them about, apparently doing no damage at all.

They were squat, almost apelike in build, except that they had a double
chest, ending in two pairs of arms. A single eye peered lidlessly from
the head-like protuberance on the shoulders that made them weirdly
humanlike in appearance. Pad feet without toes carried them on legs
that had no knee joints. And their skin was the slaty bright blue of
sea water thirty feet down.

Kimball Trent saw the Gharrian before the girl, and horror was in his
eyes. He lifted his rifle automatically again, and hell raved for a
brief second as he shot a full clip at the beast. The Gharrian did not
turn, apparently did not notice the attack.

But not the girl. She lifted her head, violet eyes widening in features
browned by the sun, and her hands make quick gestures.

"Run!" she cried.

The Gharrian plodded forward, multi-fingered hands outspread to take
the girl. He gave no heed to the cry, for his race had no speech, and
apparently no hearing.

Kimball Trent, cocked the gun to explosives, wondering if he could blow
the monster to bloody fragments, then shook his head, knowing that such
was impossible. He was held in thrall by the sheer bravery of the
golden girl, for there could be but one ending to the drama.

"Run to your left," he ordered, swung the gun up again.

The girl darted to one side like a flame-haired wraith, going
unquestioningly toward the blank end of the gully, pressing against the
rocky wall. Her eyes followed every movement of the man on the gully's
edge.

And even the Gharrian seemed to sense Trent's presence now; for it
turned with a ponderous deadly smoothness, one hand dipping for the
square box dangling on a waist cord. Its single eye was as coldly
emotionless as that of a cobra.

Kimball Trent fired five times, bracing himself against the
concussions, blowing away the center of the cliff that towered twenty
feet above the Gharrian's head. And on the fifth shot, even as the
monster from outer space began to move with sudden speed for safety,
the embankment collapsed, burying him beneath tons of earth.

[Illustration: _Trent fired three feet above the Gharrian's head._]

"_Here!_" Trent called, but the girl was already running toward him,
scrambling up the sloping bank at his side of the gully.

He reached out to give her a hand, and she caught his in a grip that
was remarkably strong. Below, noise filled the gully, and dirt blasted
upward from the slide. The Gharrian was blowing himself free with his
concussor box.

"This way," the girl said, and began to run.

She raced toward the river, scrambled down the bank, going directly
toward a large log at the bank. Trent followed, sliding and slipping,
beginning to breathe hard from the unaccustomed exertion.

"Wait," he called. "He'll see us swimming."

Then wonder came to his mind; for the girl had bent and swung back the
top of the log, showing the interior of a crudely camouflaged canoe.
She scrambled into it, beckoning for him to follow, and he stepped in,
helped close the lid over their heads.

"We're safe now," the girl breathed, touched a single lever at her
head. A slight humming came from somewhere, and motion came to the
canoe, and there was the slightest sensation of movement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kimball Trent bent his head to one side, peered through a line of tiny
holes that pierced the side of the canoe. He grinned tightly, seeing
the dirt-clotted figure of the Gharrian come slowly into sight on the
river bank. The monster searched the water for a second, then turned
and went toward the woods with an implacable slowness that was all the
more terrifying because of the utter lack of speed.

Trent looked ahead at the girl, barely making her out in the semi-gloom
of the camouflaged canoe. Her eyes were on his features, and they did
not waver at his stare.

"Who are you, Barb, that you stand against the Masters, and what manner
of weapons are those you carry?" she asked.

Trent shook his head slightly, missing some of the words because of
the queer manner she had in her syllabication and pronunciation. Then
he grinned, remembering that this was not the past, and that language
would have changed considerably during the five centuries of his
enforced entombment.

"I do not know what you mean by 'Barb,'" he said. "My name is Kimball
Trent, and the weapons are--well, weapons."

"You speak strangely," the girl said slowly. "Where are you
from--Giland, or Connet, or where?"

Trent studied the question for a moment, then understanding came to his
eyes. "You mean Long Island and Connecticut?" he asked.

The girl shrugged, brushed soft hair back from a smooth forehead. "Once
they were called that, I think," she admitted.

Trent shook his head. "I came from the woods," he said. "Who are you,
and how did you get mixed up with that Gharrian?" he finished.

"I am Lura, of the tunnels of York. I was hunting, when the Master
trapped me." She smiled, and gratitude was in her voice. "I thank you,
Barb," she finished.

"Barb?"

"Of course--Barbarian, Barbar, Barb--whatever you like."

She notched the lever more, and the canoe swayed slightly from the
increasing speed, water slapping brightly against the wooden sides.
Trent watched her graceful movements, saw the swell of her breasts, the
long clean lines of her body.

"So the world is conquered," he mused, half aloud.

Anger came to Lura's fine features, and her hand dropped to the knife
at her waist. "I do not like joking about the world," she said stiffly.
"The world is not conquered, not while any of us free people live."

Kimball Trent shifted to a more comfortable position. "I meant no
joke," he apologized, while thoughts ran with quicksilver speed in his
mind. "I do not know," he added. "I fell but a few days ago and hurt my
head. I cannot remember many things."

Contrition came to her voice. "The magician will bleed you," she said,
"and the reader will heal your mind."

"_Magician--Reader?_"

Suspicion hardened the girl's voice again, and the knife came clear of
the sheath. Her gaze locked with his, and her words came softly one
upon the other.

"You know too little and too much," she said. "I think the Elder will
talk with you."

Kimball Trent shrugged, relaxed, while the girl sent the canoe through
the water. Events were transpiring a little too fast for him, and his
mind could not assimilate the facts as fast as they were produced.

People still lived, that was obvious, even though the world had been
conquered. But they were not the kind of people he had known. If this
girl were representative of her people, then they knew nothing of
weapons, that is, the type he had; and in all probability her reference
to the magician and the reader meant that they had reverted almost to a
primitive form of social life.

He saw no particular reason to trust the slim girl, even though his
senses were stirred by her wild litheness. For seconds, he had almost
blurted out the knowledge that was his, intending to tell her of the
underground cavern. Then caution and common sense came to his mind, and
he said nothing, watching her through slitted eyes.

She was conscious of his gaze, of that he was aware. But now suspicion
lay in her eyes, and her hand was close to the slim knife at her side,
as she guided the slim canoe through the blue water toward the nearing
bank.

"Do not move, Barb," the girl said coldly, "else you shall feel my
knife in your ribs."

Kimball Trent smiled to himself. "I shall not move," he said evenly. "I
know my limitations."

       *       *       *       *       *

The canoe grated against sand, and the girl threw the cover back. Trent
blinked in the sunlight, then came to his feet, watched amusedly as
the girl gestured with her knife for him to lead the way. Catching up
his rifle, he slung it over his shoulder, then stepped from the canoe,
watched as she camouflaged it again as a log.

"Through there," she ordered, pointed ahead.

They did not speak, for the time of speaking lay in the future. Behind
them, a soulless monster was searching the brush with a blind patience
that had conquered a world; and for all they knew he might have
signalled more of his kind to come and aid him in his search.

He went ahead, not absolutely certain of where he was, climbing the
sloping bank, going toward the edge of the trees ahead. He saw the
rustle in the bushes, froze at half-step, hand going to the pistol at
his hip.

"_Brok!_" Lura said softly. "Go back toward the water--slowly, and
maybe it will not attack."

But Kimball Trent had his flame gun in his hand now and was going
forward, placing each foot carefully, ready for instant action. And on
the fourth step, he gasped, felt the blood freeze in his veins.

It came through the bush with the gliding grace of a cat. And it
was feline, too, in a way, with the gaping mouth and fangs of a
saber-tooth tiger. But there the resemblance ended. Six clawed legs
carried it forward, and scales glittered like the skin of a diamondback
rattlesnake. Pupilless eyes, like polished red marbles stared
unwinkingly, and the hissing sound from the beast's throat was like the
escaping of steam.

"Brok," Lura called again. "Do not move, Barb."

But Kimball Trent's hand was already coming up, leveling the flame gun.
And even as the gun swung into position, the brok came hurtling forward
in a fluid drive of ruthless destruction.

He came squarely into the raving cone of orange flame that gushed from
the pistol, came smashing into it, and a scream of agony keened high
at the bright blue sky. For nothing alive could withstand the awful
violence of that ravening energy; only one creature, the Gharrian, had
been able to live through its devouring power.

It died in midleap, and Kimball Trent stepped aside so that its
hurtling body would not touch him. He turned the flame on the
smouldering corpse, destroyed it with the full power of the gun. Then,
grey faced, he looked at Lura.

"What manner of man are you?" she whispered. "You battle the Masters
and their stalking broks; you use weapons the like of which I have
never heard. Are you a God?"

Trent smiled, shaken a bit by the sincere simplicity of the girl's
question, then shook his head.

"I am a man," he answered gently. "Now let us go and talk with the one
you call 'the Elder.'"

Lura looked at the knife still gripped in her fingers, and a flush of
color tided upward from her throat when her gaze went to the two guns
carried by Trent. Wordlessly, she sheathed the blade.

She led the way now, going into the thickest part of the timber,
gliding through the most tangled of the thickets with a careless
familiar grace. Kimball Trent followed more clumsily, tripping despite
his natural skill, scratching himself on sharp brambles. Minutes
flicked away, grew into an hour, and he knew that he was approaching
the city. They crossed roads now, cement blocks cracked by rain and
winter ice, bright flowers and green grasses springing upward through
the cracks.

Everywhere was bleak desolation. They passed holes in the ground that
had once been basements. Walls still stood in other places, and further
on, a great stone fence wound gracefully about what had been a private
park.

Rubble came to the ground, the crushed remains of towering buildings
blasted to bits by the Gharrians' concussors. Here and there, shards of
indestructible plastic poked toward the sky to mark where vehicles had
collapsed and dusted away in the course of centuries.

They came at last to a mighty stack of ruptured stone and plastics.
Lura picked her way over the rubble, then dropped into a small hole,
beckoning for Trent to follow. He came cautiously up the pile of stone,
hand close to his gun, feeling his nerves crawl, now that he was close
to his destination. This was not the situation he had planned five
hundred--he grinned wryly--years ago.

Then he sat, dangled his feet into the hole, dropped through.

Lura steadied him, and he stood upright, his head almost even with
the ceiling of stone blocks. Light came through the interstices, and
he could see that the girl was urging him toward a blank wall of grey
plastic fifty feet away.

He walked slowly, conscious of being watched, eyes tightening when he
saw the girl give a tapping signal to the wall. Then a door pivoted
open, and three men were covering him with needle-sharp spears.

"_Kill him_," Lura cried. "_He's a Gharrian spy!_"


                                  III

Kimball Trent was already moving, swinging to one side, the flame gun
fitting snugly into the palm of his hand. There was no laughter in his
eyes now, nor no friendliness in his heart. He felt a sympathy for the
girl; but the die had been cast, and he must play out the role.

"Don't make me kill you," he said briefly.

The leader of the trio laughed aloud, the sound rocking from wall to
wall of the weird hole in the fallen masonry. He came lightly forward,
blond hair gleaming, great muscles rippling over his superb body. He
carried himself with the grace of a dancer, the spear held crosswise in
his hands, ready for instant action at any angle.

"Ho!" he said. "The traitor is mine."

Flame roared from Kimball Trent's gun, and the iron shaft of the blond
giant's spear melted and dripped in splattering white-hot globules
where the energy touched.

Low cries of fear whirled from the other two men, and the blond stared
stupidly at his useless spear, dropped it as the heat crept along the
haft. He stared at Trent, and no fear was in his eyes; only a growing
respect and hate.

"Traitor!" he snarled, came driving in.

Trent went spinning to one side, slipping in the way that all army men
were trained, then chopped with a cool calculating skill at the base of
the giant's neck with the pistol butt. The giant dropped inertly, and
Kimball Trent faced Lura and the spearmen again.

"One!" he said grimly. "The next to attack me dies. Now take me to the
Elder."

There was a shadow in the doorway that materialized into the figure of
a man. "I am the Elder, Barb," he said. "Who are you?"

He was tall, the loose robe hanging straight from lean shoulders, his
thin features stern as he gazed at the scene. His hands were empty,
yet they gave a sense of power to him, for the fingers were long and
tapering, the palms broad. He watched Trent quietly through eyes that
gave the uncanny impression of seeing much and retaining all.

He stepped from the doorway, stood waiting quietly, pale eyes
appraising the man from the past, features tightening in puzzled
memory, as though he was trying to recall someone he had seen before.

"He is a spy, Elder," Lura cried. "He appeared from nowhere, _overcame
a Master_, and slew a brok. He carries weapons such as only the Masters
have--and he has a double name."

"My name is Trent, Kimball Trent," Trent said evenly. "I was searching
for anyone alive--"

The blond giant stirred at his feet, moaned, then came groggily to
his feet. He blinked dazed eyes, saw Trent, instantly fell to a
half-crouch, hands knotting into blocky fists.

"Enough, Korm," the Elder snapped, and the giant relaxed.

The tension was easing now, dispersed by the calmness of the Elder.
Quietly, Trent holstered his flame gun, then crossed his arms, stood
quietly waiting for the old man to speak.

"I have seen you somewhere before," the Elder said, "and your double
name is familiar in the depths of my mind." His voice changed subtly,
grew desperately grim. "What do you here?" he finished.

"Let us talk somewhere else," Trent said. "I shall be glad to tell my
story then."

The Elder nodded, turned and stepped through the door. Kimball Trent
followed, the remaining four coming directly after. The blond giant
touched a stud on the wall, and the door came softly closed, mantling
all with sable darkness.

Light swelled in a pale nimbus from a wall lamp, and they began walking
down a narrow tunnel. Sweat dripped from the walls, and the air was
coldly damp. Their feet made rasping noises, and the sound of their
breathing was abnormally loud. They did not speak, but Kimball Trent
was aware of their coldly appraising looks, and the skin of his back
crawled when he remembered the razor-sharp spears couched in capable
hands.

The lights flickered out of being behind, new ones coming on, as they
walked, leaving them in a perpetual cocoon of brilliance, making the
darkness a velvet wall eternally pressing in. Close at hand light
speared suddenly from a side tunnel, and the Elder led the way into
it, halted at the side of a low mono-wheel car that rested on a single
plastic track.

He waited until all had seated themselves in the car, then stepped into
the front, touched a series of studs. Vibration came from a concealed
motor, and the mono-wheel car slipped into whining speed almost
instantly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The walls whirred by, and the air was a solid blast against their
faces. Kimball Trent turned slightly as the car sped along, watching
the faces, nerves tightening at the suspicion and distrust that held
all in thrall.

He gave his attention to the machine in which they rode, saw that it
was a model but slightly better than the ones to which he had been
accustomed. The plastic air-shield had been removed for some reason,
otherwise the passengers could have carried on a conversation in normal
tones.

The tunnel wound through the ground like the home of a worm, slipping
through mazes of interlocking tracks, automatic relays making certain
that the car was not shunted into the path of an approaching vehicle.
But they met no other cars; there was a sense of death and desolation
in the tunnels and depots.

The car began to slow, the walls firming at either side, and came at
last to a stop at a single platform on which stood three men armed
with knives and spears. They were dressed as were his captors, in
loose robes, which they apparently wore against the chill of their
underground retreat.

They saluted as the car came to a stop, stepped forward, weapons
levelled, when they saw Trent.

"A prisoner, Elder," the first said respectfully.

The Elder shook his head. "A friend," he said gently.

Kimball Trent stepped to the platform, stretched his hand to help Lura,
flushed when she ignored his hand and came from the vehicle without
aid. The others ranged themselves at his back; and the tension was in
the group again.

"This way," the Elder said. "We shall talk in my room."

"Elder, his weapons!" Korm said briefly.

Kimball Trent shrugged, lifted his guns free, handed them to the giant
who took them with gingerly respect.

"Do not experiment with them," Trent advised.

Korm grinned wryly, laid them on the platform. "I want _nothing_ to do
with them," he said grimly.

Then the Elder and Kimball Trent were going through the open door, the
others remaining behind. They followed a short lighted tunnel carved
through living rock, turned aside into a single room.

"I make you welcome," the Elder said.

Kimball Trent gazed curiously about, seeing the crudeness of the
furnishings; the room was furnished like that of an ascetic, not like
the home of the leader of some group. It had a spartan simplicity in
the plastic furniture, the bare walls white and unmarked.

Kimball Trent chose a chair at the side of a table, waited until the
Elder had seated himself and pushed what appeared to be some sort of
signal button.

A young man, brown-haired and athletic, came through the door, nodded
in greeting, stared curiously at Trent. He walked slowly to the table,
bent his head in tribute.

"Valur, this is Kimball Trent, a newcomer," the Elder said. "We shall
listen to his story." He turned to Trent. "Valur is the Reader; it is
he who knows the past and who is the keeper of the books."

"I make you welcome," Valur said quietly, eyes wise beyond his years
calmly studying the well-knit body of Trent.

"Your story?" the Elder prompted gently.

Kimball Trent began to speak. He told of his awakening, of his rescue
of Lura, of his being brought to the tunnels. He saw the skepticism
in the Elder's eyes, was conscious of the probing of his statements by
Valur. He told nothing of the fortress that had stayed untenanted for
five centuries, told only that he had been buried in a cave, and had
come miraculously alive.

Finished, he relaxed against the chair back, waited for the questions.
He could feel the perspiration on his forehead, for he sensed the
mettle of the men, knew that he would not leave the underground alive
if they believed him to be a spy of the Gharrians.

"What think you?" the Elder asked Valur.

Valur seated himself directly before Trent. "You claim to be a Kimball
Trent?" he asked.

"Yes," Trent said.

"There was once a Kimball Trent who fought the Masters when first they
came. He was the friend of a man called Doctor Boyliss, and one of the
first leaders of the fight against the Masters."

"I'm the one," Kimball Trent said grimly.

"You will submit to a neuro test?"

"Gladly."

       *       *       *       *       *

Valur strode to a side door, entered, returned with a small neurograph
machine. He clamped cables to the arms, legs and head of Trent,
adjusted dials, then began his questioning. For minutes he talked, both
he and the Elder studying the dials. Slowly, amazement came to their
faces, excitement flickering in their eyes. At last, they freed the
cables, and Trent relaxed.

"Satisfied?" he asked.

"One more test," Valur said, left the room.

Kimball Trent smiled at the Elder. "My story must sound utterly
insane," he said.

"It does," the Elder said noncommittally.

Then Valur was back, gently carrying a plasti-book, opening it as he
came. He spread the book on the table, opening it to a group picture,
indicating one man. He took a small box from a pocket in his robe, made
prints of Trent's fingerprints.

"It is he," he said at last, pushing the book and prints aside.

There was silence then, the Elder and Valur studying the man before
them with awe-filled eyes. Trent shifted uncomfortably.

"Now, suppose you tell me your story?" he asked.

The Elder nodded. "There are about three thousand of us Barbs beneath
the city. Our ancestors fought the Masters, hiding like beasts beneath
the ground, never finding the weapons that would rid the Earth of the
Gharrians. We do nothing now but live and hope, sometimes making raids
on the breeding stations, trying to free those who would escape."
Weariness came to his voice. "The breeders lack spirit now, after
centuries of slavery; usually they will not run, even when their
devil-wires are broken."

"Devil-wires?" Trent asked.

Valur explained. "They slay at a touch, and when broken, they snap and
spit yellow flames."

"Electricity?"

Valur shrugged. "I have read the word, but it means nothing to me."

Kimball Trent gestured at the lights. "Those lights and the mono-wheel
car; they are both somewhat electrical in nature."

The Elder shook his head. "We know how none of the things work that
we use. We find them, and sometimes they do certain things; when they
cease to function, we forget them. None of us have the knowledge to
maintain or repair them."

Kimball Trent nodded. He saw now many things that he had not understood
before. He had seen primitive spears and a car that ran by _atomilect_
power, had seen one man who could read and others to whom reading
was a mystery not to be fathomed by ordinary men. He had seen the
intelligence that gleamed in his captors' eyes, and yet they had
thought him a superman because he had slain one of the Gharrians'
hunting broks with a flame gun.

"I can repair them," he said at last. "But first, I must know how you
live, and the machines upon which you live."

The Elder came lithely to his feet. "We shall show you all," he said,
faint hope flickering in his voice. "You will find conditions much
changed from those you knew." He smiled. "Later, you shall tell us of
your world."

He led the way into the tunnel, sent a guard for Trent's weapons.
Kimball Trent fitted them onto his shoulder and hip again, then strode
down the tunnel at the side of his two guides.

"You spoke of breeding stations," he said as they walked. "What did you
mean?"

Muscles knotted in Valur's jaws. "They _are_ breeding stations," he
said. "For almost five centuries the Gharrians have forced Earth to
supply slaves for them. Great depots are made into slave camps, and the
children born are carried in the crimson ships into space. We never see
them again."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was hate in Kimball Trent again, the surging twisting of
emotions that had driven him in the days he had fought the monsters
from infinity. It had lain dormant the last few days, stifled by his
thoughts of the centuries he had slept, smothered by his fear that the
world was dead and he alive. Now, knowing the way in which men lived on
their planet, the hate came alive again, and he could feel the muscles
of his body swelling against his harness.

"And nothing can be done?" he asked.

"Nothing!" Valur shook his head. "The Masters cannot be slain, and they
hunt us like animals with their broks. We try now only to stay alive,
praying for a miracle." His eyes swung to Trent. "It may be that _you_
are that miracle."

Kimball Trent flushed, feeling helpless and naked and impotent. "We
fought," he said, "and our weapons were of no avail. The men who might
have devised new weapons are all dead, and I do not have the knowledge
for manufacturing along new lines of thought."

The Elder's voice was gentle. "We shall win," he said. "We shall win
eventually, for men were never meant to crawl as animals." His voice
changed. "We shall call you 'Trent'," he finished, "and say that you
are a Barb from Connet, for my people will not believe the tale you
tell. Or if they did believe, they might think you a superman, and that
would not be good."

The light of an entrance ahead came into view as they rounded a corner
in the tunnel. They could hear voices; and the odors of cooking came on
the faint breeze. Trent shivered suddenly. This was not the way that
he thought the world would be. Never in even his wildest dreams had he
thought Earth could be conquered. Now it was so, and the future was
a hopeless thing, Earthmen fighting with feather-weapons against the
invulnerable armor of the Gharrians.

They stepped from the tunnel, and Lura joined them from where she stood
with Korm and another man. Her gaze was level and inscrutable as she
studied Trent's face.

"Did he lie?" she asked.

"He spoke the truth," the Elder said evenly.

Lura smiled then, and the warmth of her smile was like the soothing
fingers of a Summer breeze stroking Trent's features.

"I am glad," she said simply. "One who faces a Master and his brok
should be one of us." She beckoned to Korm. "You fought once; now meet
as friends."

Korm grinned, held out his hand. "My sister told me of how you saved
her; I am your friend." He tensed the muscles of his proud neck, winced
instinctively. "Some time you must show me that fighting trick; never
before have I been bested in battle."

"Any time," Kimball Trent said.

"Come," Valur said. "Light talk shall wait until later."

Kimball Trent turned to follow his guides, conscious of the slim girl
at his side, wondering how any woman could be so fearlessly reliant
and so feminine at the same time. He glanced at the blond giant, saw
the knowing look that came to the grey eyes when they went from him to
Lura, and hotness flooded upward from his throat.

He turned his attention to the Elder. "What first?" he asked. "My
people," the Elder said simply.

Together, they began their tour.


                                  IV

Three weeks had passed since Kimball Trent's arrival. At first, he had
met doubt and suspicion from the inhabitants of the tunnels beneath the
rubble of New York. His manner of speech was odd, as were his weapons,
his clothing and his knowledge. But gradually, he had been accepted by
the majority of those he had met through the Elder.

The dwellers of the underground caverns were a strange admixture of
modern and primitive cultures. None but the Elder, the Reader and his
acolytes could read or write. They knew nothing of the past except what
the Reader gave to them from his books, or what the Singers gave to
them in their songs of legend.

They had been cleaved into three classes: workers, warriors and
growers, each with its distinct duties, each contributing to the
welfare of the whole. The warriors were the hunters of wild game and
the protectors of their homes; the workers kept everything used in as
good repair as they were capable of doing, except upon the mechanical
machines and contrivances of which they had no knowledge either
inherited or acquired. The growers were the food gardeners and flock
tenders, utilizing their skill in abandoned subway tubes where gardens
grew fabulously beneath the radi-lights studding the walls, and where
various food and milk animals and food fowls were kept in penned-in
tunnels.

Over all were the Elder and his council of five. They ruled by
election of the people, and so kindly and wise had been their rule that
never had one been deposed except by death. They studied the old books,
sent parties searching on great journeys in efforts to contact other
groups of men and women hidden from the invaders. They made the laws
that were needed, interpreted them, and meted out what punishment was
necessary. Major crimes were unknown, for the knowledge had been bred
into generation after generation that life could only be maintained by
absolute dependence upon each other.

This was the society that Kimball Trent found beneath the earth, one
that amazed and embittered him; for in his mind was the world that had
been his, one of freedom of movement and thinking, with only the coming
of the Gharrians to mar the peace that had seemed eternal.

He found a great admiration, too, for the people of the caverns.
Never had he heard grumbling among them, always there had been soft
laughter. And always had there been, deep beneath their mannerisms,
that steel-like will that would never bow beneath the weird tyrants.

For the first week, he had done little more than meet the men and women
and children, acquainting himself with their way of living, measuring
them against his memories of those who had fought at his side five
hundred years before. He had felt the bite of conscience, remembering
the fortress that lay hidden but a few hours away from these tunnel
homes; but he kept the knowledge to himself, not certain that these
people were what they claimed to be in actuality.

In the second week, he began his repairing of the machines that lay
abandoned where they had fallen into disuse. He grinned at the sounds
of amazement made by Lura and Korm, his constant companions, as he
replaced wiring and reset the atomic burners so that machines would
work and run again. To him the repairing was as simple as the setting
of a watch, for the machines had been almost indestructible and
foolproof when they were built. They had needed but to have certain
small parts replaced, and the atomic vibrators replenished with fuel;
but to Lura and Korm the sudden working of machines discarded long
before they were born was little short of miraculous.

Kimball Trent had explained as he repaired, showing the simplicity
of every machine, indicating how many others could be repaired and
maintained. Korm had grasped the knowledge with a natural skill, had
elected himself to instruct others in the 'mechanic' art. Lura had been
more slow, mechanics not her natural bent, but she retained what she
learned, and demonstrated it on several occasions.

There had been other long hours, too, spent in talks with the Elder and
the Council of Five. In them, he had told of the past, had explained
the manner in which people lived, had told of the religions and the
work and the miracles of machinery that made living comfortable and
easy of accomplishment. He had used his smattering of several foreign
languages to open dusty books to the inquiring mind of the Readers, had
given knowledge that would raise the standard of living of the cavern
dwellers.

In return, he had learned that colonies were scattered over the world,
underground cities where tens of thousands of free men lived and died,
waiting for the day when the Earth would be delivered of the monsters
that held it in an iron grip of tyrannical mastery.

He had made his decision to disclose the location of the underground
fortress, with its weapons and facilities for living in comfort. He
knew now that these were his people, even though they had come five
centuries after him. Within them burned the flame that motivated him,
and he sensed that within them might lie the salvation of the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was finishing the repairing of a water pump, when first he heard the
excited voice of Korm calling from nearby. Straightening, wrench in
hand, he waved an answer, waited until the blond giant had come to his
side.

"Your guns, Trent," Korm said breathlessly. "We make a raid today."

"A raid? Where?"

"At the south of York. Spies have brought information that new
prisoners have been brought to the encampment; they will be more than
willing to escape. And perhaps others may come, too."

The thrill of the words swept through Kimball Trent's mind, surged hot
blood into his temples. He dropped the wrench, caught up his guns from
where they lay beside the pump.

"How many are going?" he asked.

"A few," Korm answered, setting the pace toward a small group waiting
beside a tunnel mouth.

"Hurry," a voice called clearly.

"Lura!" Kimball Trent said. "Surely you're not letting her go along."

Korm frowned. "Of course," he said. "She is good with knife and spear;
she has been on many raids."

"But she is a woman!"

Korm shrugged. "That is good; she will influence the female breeders to
escape."

Then they were at the edge of the group, and Korm was introducing the
five men and two women. Valur and Lura, Trent had already met. He shook
hands with Frong, a jovial red-haired giant almost as huge as Korm.
Neela, the second woman smiled shyly in greeting, clung hand to hand
with her dark-skinned husband, Matt. Nels and Parb, the last two men,
nodded silent greetings, their strong hands caressing the spears they
carried.

They had discarded the tunnel-robes, were dressed now in chest
harnesses hung with knives, and in brief leather skirts that came
halfway down their thighs. Sandals protected their feet and ankles.

"Come," Korm said, led the way into the side tunnel.

They walked the length of the tunnel, entered a large mono-wheel car,
Korm sending it speeding down the single track. The walls blurred from
the speed, and conversation was impossible for the fifteen minutes of
the ride.

This was the first time that Kimball Trent had travelled in this
direction from the tunnel city. He prodded his memory, trying to
recall details of the city, recognizing Grand Central Air Terminal,
and farther on the tubes that had been used by ground traffic and the
underground trains to reach New Jersey. But after that, he recognized
no stations or details; evidently the tunnels had been built after he
had been frozen in the fortress.

Korm touched studs on the control panel, brought the car to a sliding
stop. "We go no farther by car," he said quietly. "Follow me, and be
careful to make no sound; broks might be around."

He stepped to the small platform at the right of the car, gently eased
open a small door, went through the black opening. Lura followed on his
heels, and after her came Trent and the rest of the party.

They followed a dank sloping repair tunnel, slipping on the mossy
damp flooring, going toward the faint glimmer of light a hundred feet
ahead. Korm hissed for silence at the end, carefully parted the fringe
of camouflaging bushes, searched the landscape for signs of hidden
watchers. Satisfied, he slipped into the open, gave a helping hand to
Lura. Within seconds, all stood within the cover of a thick growth of
trees and bushes.

"This way," Korm whispered.

They squirmed through the brush, taking care to make no sound, keen
eyes searching everywhere about. Kimball Trent felt the tension
mounting unconsciously in his heart, felt the cold sheen of sweat on
his body. He gripped the rifle with nervous hands, felt a bit of relief
when Lura flashed him a brief warm smile. Somehow, they were very close
at the moment.

"There!" Korm said at last, squatted behind a bush.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kimball Trent saw the building first, towering like the round silo of a
Midwestern farmer, slotted windows strips of black against the gleaming
red surface of seamless plastic. His gaze drifted to the ground, and
muscles bulged along his back.

There were people there, herded together in a great wire pen. There
were men and women and children; and even from a distance, Trent could
see the hate and fear and despair that tortured every face.

He scowled unbelievingly when he saw the guards. They were metal men,
robots, stalking steady guard duty a few feet outside of the wire
enclosure. They were weird caricatures of men, quartz eyes staring
straight ahead, concussor boxes dangling from waist cords, tiny puffs
of dust spurting with each step of their flat mechanical feet.

Kimball Trent shook his head. He had heard nothing of the robots, had
never seen them when first he fought the Gharrians. Evidently they had
been created after the world had been conquered. Now they walked in
deadly silence, a menace against which an unarmed man would have no
chance at all.

A man died, even as Trent watched. He cried his hate and raced toward
the fence, leaping high so as to clamber over it with catlike speed and
agility. Trent felt the unheard warning coming from his chest, stifled
it, even as electricity crackled and writhed along the figure of the
man and dropped him in a smouldering blackened heap onto the ground.

No sound came from the prisoners; they stared in dull hate, as the
nearest robot ignored the crackling electricity and pulled the body
below the lowest strand of wire. Dragging the corpse by the legs, the
robot soullessly pulled it toward a shallow ditch, dumped it in, then
again began its endless patrol.

"The inhuman beasts!" Lura cried softly, tears in her eyes.

A Gharrian came from the base of the tower, walking with its ponderous
smoothness, the single eye glittering in the sunlight. There was
something obscene and deadly about its deliberate stalking of the
prisoners huddled within the enclosure.

Its long multi-fingered arms were like writhing tentacles, as it
singled out a man and woman, capturing them before they could move.
Three men hurled themselves at its broad back, beating insanely
with their fists. A robot came rushing in, battered them free,
then beat them into unconsciousness with mailed feet. The Gharrian
turned, stalked toward the tower, dragging the man and woman with an
unconscious incredible ease. It was like a blue monster from hell
dragging two victims to some hideous sacrifice.

"Where?" Kimball Trent breathed.

Korm shrugged. "We're not certain," he said. "One escaped prisoner said
that, in the tower, tests are made of their mentality and fertility."
His great hands knotted about the heavy spear shaft. "Some day I shall
enter that tower, and all hell shall not stop my destroying every
Master therein!"

Then the passion was gone from his voice, and he was their leader
again. "Matt, Nels, Parb," he ordered. "Go around to the other side and
create a diversion. We shall tear down the fence from this side."

The three men nodded and were gone like drifting shadows. Korm opened
the small bundle Frong, the red-haired giant, handed him, disclosing
several plastic ropes, gang-hooks attached to one end of each. He
distributed the ropes to Valur, Frong and himself. Trent watched
intently, as they fitted the spears to the hooked end of the ropes.

"Is this your plan?" he asked quietly.

Korm nodded shortly, testing a knot with heavy fingers.

Kimball Trent lifted his rifle. "I can blow the fence to pieces with a
couple of shots?" he said.

"No!" Lura laid a slim hand on the rifle barrel. "We want no more noise
than necessary. They discovered us early the last time we raided, and
loosed the broks. We lost more than half of our group."

Trent shrugged. "All right, then, what do I do?"

"Sit and watch," Korm said shortly. "Cover us with your weapons."

       *       *       *       *       *

Then he and Frong were in the open, walking steadily down the gentle
slope, ropes coiled in their left hands, the spears couched in their
right. And even as they began their march, a yellow rope sailed out
of the trees across the enclosure, settled about the neck of a robot,
tightened with a whiplike snap. The robot spun halfway about, then
toppled with a metallic clatter.

"Ready?" Lura whispered.

Neela nodded, dark eyes worried and intent as she watched her husband
and two companions pulling with all their strength upon the far rope.

Four robots had whirled at the clattering, were speeding to the aid of
their companion. Cable fingers caught at the black concussors at their
waists, were lifting them for lethal shots.

"Now!" Korm's voice came winging back.

He and Frong threw with gigantic strength, the spears speeding aloft,
hovering, dropping just past the coppery strands of electrified wire.
Sparks danced a drunken saraband along the fence, grounded through
the spears. Then the connecting ropes were pulling taut, the hooks
catching firmly. The two giants braced heavy legs, muscles rippling,
and swelling along massive shoulders. The ropes tightened, grew solid,
and the fence began to lean toward them. Posts snapped with brittle
reports--and then the fence was ruptured, broken wires leaping and
sparking with white-hot violence.

"Ho, Barbs!" Korm bellowed. "Run for freedom. Dodge the wires and
follow me."

Then the action was almost too swift to follow. The four robots turned
as one, lifting their concussors to focus on the blond giant. Kimball
Trent fired in one swift move, levering the rifle for explosive
needles, the racking bellow of the concussions bounding through the
churning air. One robot blew to pieces, and the explosion knocked down
the second. The third fired, but the shot went wild, for a second rope
whirled from nowhere, jerked him off balance. The shot exploded fifty
feet over Trent's head, blasted him face down in the dirt.

He scrambled to his knees, fired at the fourth robot, blew it to
pieces, then whirled to watch the enclosure again. He saw the two
Gharrians standing in the doorway of the tower, blasted two shots their
way, saw them rock from the explosions.

Men and women were running for the breach in the fence. Some died,
touched by the vicious sparks that flicked from the whipping wires;
others scrambled through to safety. They made no sound, but came in an
instinctive rush, coming directly toward the great blond and red giants
who had torn down the fence with insulated ropes of soft plastic.

"Good!" Neela said quietly, straightened to her full height.

"Broks!" Lura cried desperately, and terror was in the single word, a
terror more horrible than the word could express.

       *       *       *       *       *

They came gliding from a side door, one after the other, until fully a
dozen stood before the tower. Then they turned and came in a murderous
wave of death up the slope, going straight toward the rescuers,
ignoring the escaping prisoners. Saliva dropped from gaping fangs, and
their six legs threw them forward with an incredible speed. They mewled
like gigantic cats, then hissed their hate.

Korm and Frong turned and ran before the group of prisoners, knives
glittering in their hands as they watched the beasts come in a circling
attack. There was no fear in their features, only a calm determination
that didn't alter.

Kimball Trent came to his feet, braced heavy thigh muscles against the
concussion shocks that were coming, then set the rifle for continuous
fire. He swayed the muzzle like a fire hose, spraying death into the
broks, blowing them to bloody scraps of bone and flesh, cursing, as
some of them escaped the blasting fire.

The rifle clicked empty, and he caught at the flame gun. Korm and Frong
were at his side then, knives bared, and he waved them on.

"Run, you fools," he snarled. "Get the prisoners to safety. I can kill
them all with the flame gun."

He fired as he spoke, and the orange flames gushed in a hellish
holocaust that roasted two of the fanged monsters to death in midleap.
Three others whipped to one side, split forces, came whirling in from
different directions.

The last of the prisoners were by him now, except for a few who had
dropped from concussion shock. He tried to scream a warning at Lura,
who had darted out and was helping a woman to her feet; but he had no
time, for the three snake-scaled broks came snarling in.

Full power he had the gun, and full power he needed. The first brok
charged directly into the flame, vanished in a greasy puff of smoke.
The second was barely caught by the swinging flame, screamed in agony,
bounded to safety. The third drove squarely in, evading the flame for
a second, then died, the vortex of surging energy slashing away the
forepart of its body with magical speed.

Kimball Trent whirled, sent a spear of flame after the fleeing brok,
caught it a hundred yards away, dropped it in its tracks. Then,
breathing deeply, sickened by the odor of burning flesh, he raced to
aid Lura. She had half-lifted the woman to her feet, and he bent to
lift her to his shoulders. It was then he saw the terror in Lura's
violet eyes. He tried to whirl, managed only to get part of the way
about.

He saw the single eye of the Gharrian, cursed himself for lulling
himself into thinking that the alien monsters moved but slowly. He
reached for his gun, knowing the weapon was useless, hoping only to
give Lura a chance at escape.

Then the first arm of the Gharrian lashed out, coiled about him like an
octopus tentacle, drew him close, and a second sledged with a brutal
scientific precision. He felt the hurt spreading in a racing wave over
his body, tried to fight away the blanket of darkness. He heard Lura's
scream, saw dimly that the Gharrian had caught her with his other arms.

Then the blackness became opaque and he could see nothing. He felt a
second blow, and he was sinking into a funnel of darkness that had no
bottom. He heard a faint echo of Lura's scream; then he knew no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was on a boat, water slapping his face each time the boat rocked in
the troughs of the spilling waves. He tried to sit, but nausea cramped
his belly, and he felt the blackness knotting his mind again. He heard
his name called again and again, but he did not have the strength to
answer.

Then the curtain began lifting from his memory, and thoughts came
flooding to his mind. He blinked dazedly, focusing his eyes grimly, saw
that Lura was bent over him, a wet cloth in her hand.

"Some fight!" he tried to joke, and the pain of his head took all of
the jolliness from his tone.

"You'll be all right," Laura said.

He leaned back against the pressure of her arm, saw that he had been
lying on a crude bunk against the wall of an unfurnished room. He swung
his legs to the floor, braced his head with both hands, gently explored
the swelling bruise-knots that marked his skull.

"Never again," he said grimly. "Next time, I run."

Lura smiled gamely, worry shadows fleeing back into the depths of her
violet eyes. She brushed back a stray lock of red-gold hair from her
cheek, allowed her gaze to wander about the room.

"The Master brought us here and left a metal man on guard. You have
been unconscious for hours."

Kimball Trent came groggily to his feet, bracing himself with one hand
on the wall. Then he circled the room, stopping at the slit window,
trying to see into the velvet night, going on to peer through the
barred grille in the door at the expressionless inhuman face of the
robot that stood at motionless guard across the hallway. Farther down
the hall, on either side, he could see more doors with grilled openings.

"Are we in the tower?" he asked.

"Yes," Lura answered from where she sat. "The Master brought us
directly here."

"Did the others escape?"

"I do not know. I did not see them when we were brought in, and none
have been brought here since." Her self control gave slightly. "Kim,
what are we going to do?"

Kimball Trent grinned, forcing back the futility that beat at his
thoughts. "We're going to get out of here, one way or the other," he
said reassuringly.

"How?"

Trent shrugged, wished the ache in his head would stop bouncing about.
"I don't know," he said equably. "But I've got a hunch we're in for a
little quiz session with the Gharrians."

"Quiz session?"

"Sure. Questions and answers; they question and we answer."

Lura's face was white beneath her tan, but she smiled at Trent. "I hope
they hurry with whatever they've got planned; I'm beginning to feel
hungry."

They laughed then, laughed with the brightness and hope of youth,
amused by the incongruity of worrying about a meal when their
lives were probably forfeit for the events that had taken place.
They laughed, and the robot moved to the grille, stared with blank
telephotic eyes.

"Curious little devil, isn't he?" Trent said, walked toward the bunk.

He watched the grille for a moment, thoughts whirling in his mind,
trying to form some plan of escape that could be based on the reactions
of the robot to anything out of the ordinary that happened among the
prisoners he was set to guard.

       *       *       *       *       *

The minutes walked by on leaden feet, neither of them speaking, each
intent on silent thoughts. There were no sounds, inside or out, and a
chill came to the room from the night air.

Then there came the heavy sound of metallic footsteps from the
corridor, echoed by the shuffling of bare feet. Hands fumbled at the
door, and it swung open, an Earthman entering, the doorway blocked by a
single robot.

"I've some questions to ask," the intruder said fearfully.

"Traitor!" Lura spat, turned to Trent. "He gave himself up to the
Masters weeks ago, fleeing from a Connet colony he betrayed."

The man drew himself up, glancing at the robot at his back, then
turning to face the prisoners. Fear was in his eyes, but brutality
masked his face.

"I can order you killed," he said. "Don't drive me far." He glanced at
the rifle and flame gun he carried. "Where did you get these weapons?"
he asked Trent.

"_Are_ they weapons?" Kimball Trent asked mockingly.

"I don--the Master says they are."

"Then they can talk?" Incredulity was in Trent's voice. "I thought they
had no speech."

"They do not speak, not the way we do; but they make themselves
understood." Perspiration slid in greasy drops down the man's face.
"Where did you get these weapons?" he asked again.

The robot came into the room, staring glassily, tentacular arms swaying
gently at its sides. Lura stiffened, pressed closer to Trent. He
grinned, nodded at the metal man.

"Your dog?" he asked.

"_Dog?_" the man said puzzledly, turned his head.

And Kimball Trent flowed into action, leaping with the grace and
darting agility of a panther.

His left hand reached out, caught the arm of the man, and his right
hand chopped down in a vicious rabbit punch at the base of the other's
neck. Bones snapped from the brutal power, and the man went utterly
limp.

The robot came driving forward with an incredible speed, tentacles of
whipping steel lashing for Trent's throat. But even as the robot came
swinging in, Trent whirled, spinning the rifle as a club, smashed the
automaton squarely across the eyes.

Glass popped and shattered, tiny shards flying through the air. Light
flared intensely white in each eye socket, then died to red and
vanished into blackness.

Then the robot was but an eyeless machine methodically smashing its
way about the room. It was a legged juggernaut, a ton of destruction
that crushed the bunk to splinters with a double sweep of its heavy
tentacles.

Trent bent low, avoiding death by a fraction of an inch, saw that Lura
had flowed into action almost as quickly as he. She stood at the door
now, flame gun in hand, waiting for him. He dodged to her side, caught
the door, slammed it shut, then locked it with a turn of the switch.

He dropped the shattered rifle, caught the flame gun in his right hand.
"This is it," he said briefly, led the way at a run down the corridor.

They ducked about the corner of the hall, heard the battering sounds
disappearing behind. Their breaths were hot in their throats, and the
utter soullessness of the tower was a dank mantle that shrouded them.

"Which way?" Lura said at the double door facing them at the end of the
corridor.

"This," Trent said shortly, pushed through a swing door.

The second hall was lighted by radi-lights in ceiling brackets, and a
current of air came strong against their faces from the far end. Light
shone through the bottom crack of a doorway, and they went toward it on
cat-feet, making no sound, stifling their very breathing for fear of
discovery.

Strangely, there was no sound of alarm above, nor did they hear sounds
of pursuit. They glanced instinctively at each other, then drifted
forward, the single weapon their only defense against attack.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kimball Trent almost smiled when he remembered the wish that had been
Korm's that day. He would have given ten years of his life to exchange
places with Lura and Trent, to have had this opportunity of wreaking
his vengeance upon the Masters in their fortress.

Then the thought was gone, and they stood before the door of the room
from which light came. Trent laid his finger across his lips, nodded
for Lura to wait. She shook her head impatiently, started to speak.

It was the natural thing to do to keep her quiet. He bent his head to
hers, and her lips were soft and sweet and fragrant against his mouth.
He came close to her, savoring her warmth and pliancy, feeling the urge
that lay in them both. Then he backed away, smiled from deep in his
heart.

"Wait for me," he whispered, and was gone through the doorway.

His gun was out in front of him, finger trembling on the stud. He saw
the Gharrian standing to one side, and hell raved from his flame pistol
as he fired instinctively. The cone of ravening energy twisted its
deadly way over the entire body--yet the alien monster made no move to
flee or to attack.

Heat grew and built and swelled, drove him back a full step--and still
the blue-grey monster made no move. Red rage pulsed in Trent's mind,
and he whispered, "Damn! Damn! Damn!" over again as the last charge in
the flame began to die away.

And at last, the gun empty and cooling in his hand, he stood facing
the Gharrian, blinking against the heat, smelling the odor of charred
plastic where the flame had touched the wall. Then he gasped, bent
forward in excitement.

For the Gharrian had no head.

Kimball Trent took two cautious steps forward, standing on tiptoe,
staring at the cavity where the eye-head had been. And what he saw
chilled the blood in his body.

For the Gharrian was a robot, a tiny control board deep in the
aperture, a curved hood dropping on hinges to the back.

Kimball Trent whirled then and began to stalk the room. He didn't know
exactly what he sought, but there was a singing in his mind, and the
knowledge he had just gained was the answer to many things that had
never been solved.

He saw the flickering movement at the corner of the room, took two long
strides that way, snatched with bare hands at the monstrosity that
squirmed with miniature strength against the grip of his lean fingers.

He almost vomited at sight of the weird creature that fought to free
itself. It was like a pink convoluted brain, with spider legs like
wormy tentacles coiling and uncoiling in mad rage. Two tiny eyes glared
lidlessly at Trent, and a hole like a sucker mouth gaped, showing blue
toothless gums.

Trent increased the pressure of his fingers, and the tiny eyes popped
in agony, the tentacles wrapping about his fingers, trying to pry them
free. And in the midst of the struggle, a thought pried its way into
Trent's consciousness.

"Do not slay me, Earthman. Let me live."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kimball Trent went to the side table where small machines and tools
were scattered haphazardly. He emptied out a deep plastic jar, set it
upright, then dropped the pink monstrosity into its depths. His skin
crawled, and he heard Lura's gasp, as the Gharrian righted itself,
trying frantically to climb the glasslike walls of the prison.

"Laura, bolt the door," Trent said without turning his head, then spoke
directly at the squirming blob of flesh. "Do you understand what I am
saying?" he asked.

"Faintly," the answer came welling into his mind. "Our minds are not
enough alike to catch all thoughts."

"So you are one of the Masters!" Trent sighed contemptuously, glancing
at the monster robot that all Earth had thought to be a creature that
lived.

"I am one," the Gharrian thought.

Lura came to Trent's side. "Put a cover on the jar," she said,
shuddering, "and we shall take him along with us."

Mental laughter shook their minds, a dry ironical humor all the more
terrible because there was no sound. They stared in horror at the
brain-beast, while its thoughts raced through their consciousness.

"You cannot escape; all doors are guarded."

"Maybe!" Trent said aloud, lifting a sharp tool from the table,
balancing it idly in one hand. Then he reached over, probed delicately
at the scrambling pink beast in the jar, watched critically as green
ichor oozed from a tiny cut the tool had inflicted.

"See us safely out, or you die," he said unemotionally.

The thought came hurtling back, utterly savage and unafraid. "Destroy
me, and you surely die." There was an interval in which no message
came. Then: "I shall bargain with you. Tell me where those ancient
weapons were found, make yourself my prisoner, and the girl, as you
call her, shall go free."

Trent carefully dropped the razor-sharp tool, heard the soundless
shriek of agony that welled high as a tentacular leg was sheared
completely away.

"I make no bargains," he said coldly.

He turned about, studying the single window that studded the far wall
of the room, catching up several tools from the bench, he crossed the
plastic floor, studied the incredibly hard plastic that served as a
pane through which the outer world could be seen.

He searched for a catch, realized there would be none, for this was a
ground floor, and the Gharrians would leave no openings through which
an attack could be made. Calmly, he beat at the pane with his pistol
butt, bruising his hand, making absolutely no impression.

"Will it break?" Lura called softly.

"No. But it may cut." Trent chose the sharpest of the tools, bore down
with all his weight.

The squeal of metal on plastic keened high, setting his teeth on edge;
and then the sound had passed too high for him to hear. He finished
the stroke, bent close, then straightened in defeat. There was not the
slightest of scratches on the plastic window.

"Kim!" Lura cried, and he raced to her side.

Even as he reached her, the Gharrian began to putrefy. It had died
during the few moments Trent had tried to break the window; and its
monstrosity of a body was already beginning to rot in upon itself like
a blighted spider caught in a flame.

"Damn!" Trent swore softly. "I probably squeezed too hard. Come."

He led the way toward the door through which they had come, lifted the
single bar. He smiled tiredly, gamely, was warmed by the unquenchable
courage that flamed in her bearing.

"Ready?" he asked, threw open the door at her wordless nod.

Facing them from ten feet away, single eyes emotionlessly watching,
were three of the robot-Gharrians.


                                  VI

"Run!" Trent snapped, threw himself to one side, pausing for a fraction
of a second to permit Lura to dart past him. Then, even before the
Gharrians could move, they were darting through the side door, flung
instantly open by Trent's driving hand.

He slammed the door, slammed the single bar shut, then whirled to
follow the girl. A soundless gasp of incredible awe came from his
throat, and he froze motionless.

Kimball Trent went dashing forward, smashed the single darting pink
monstrosity, as it raced toward a robot, with his heel, then stopped,
and watched the incredible thing that filled the entire center of the
room.

It was like a monster fishbowl, great cables snaking to atomic motors
that hummed with quiet power. Colors glowed and played and flickered in
the greenish liquid that filled the bowl, and the liquid bubbled softly
within itself.

But the things that brought the sickness to Trent's and Lura's hearts
and minds were the things that bobbed in the liquid. They were brains,
some large, some shrunken in upon themselves, each attached to fine
wires that led to grids at the center of the bowl. Larger wires ran
from the grids to the sides of the bowl, slipped through and dropped
to small platforms upon which rested the spider monsters who ruled the
world.

"Life eaters!" Trent whispered. "They live on the lives and brains of
the people they kill."

He walked about the great bowl, watching the lights flicker behind the
plastic wall, seeing the sluggish movements of the creatures who sucked
the life forces from the liquid bubbling so gently. Then with a calm
viciousness that surprised even himself, he methodically crushed each
of the pinkish monsters to death.

And with the death of the last monster, the first of the Gharrians
in the hall attacked the door. Great sledging blows smashed at the
plastic, each blow driving bulges where no man could have scratched the
surface.

Kimball Trent stared thoughtfully at the bulging panel, his mind
working clearly for the first time in minutes. There was no fear in him
now, no blazing hate, only the crystal brightness of logic in his mind.
He looked about the room, then beckoned for Lura to come to his side.
She came trustingly, staring into his eyes, and he knew then his future
was yet to come.

He grinned, kissed her gently. "You will do as I say. Go to the Reader
and tell him to read about sound waves. Tell him that the Gharrians can
be killed with supersonic waves of sound; that that is the _only_ way
that they can be killed while in their armor. Do you understand?"

"I understand," Lura said quietly. "But I do not leave."

The door shattered inward, hanging on a single hinge, and through the
opening came the invulnerable Gharrians, moving slowly toward the
unarmed Earthman and girl.

Kimball Trent swung the girl behind him, retreated, wondering if the
mad scheme he had would possibly work. And even as he thought, his hand
reached out, ripped loose the cables from one of the motors that fed
the current to the life-trap bowl.

He raced to the second, tore the cables free, winced, as the motor sang
a shriller song, power mounting now that it no longer fed the bowl.
He tore the third bunch of cables free, then shielded Lura with his
body, as the motors began to race with incredible speed, their screams
mounting higher and higher.

Still the Gharrians came forward, moving with an implacable deadliness
that nothing could stop apparently, their concussors dangling from
their waists. They would use their strength here, for concussion would
wreck the life bowl, and they had no reason to fear the puny strengths
of the couple they faced.

The screams of the motors were like knife blades now, biting into
every nerve, wrenching agony from their brains. Trent and Lura gasped
from the pain, pressed farther back around the great transparent bowl,
striving desperately to evade that last moment when the Masters would
reach them.

And then the shrill screams of the motor eased, were gone, vibrations
scaling past the audible, going into a supersonic range that their ears
could not catch.

The first Gharrian lifted a mailed arm--and died.

       *       *       *       *       *

He died rather horribly, beating insanely at his companion and the
plastic wall. Then he was dead, and was but a toppling metal hulk that
smashed to the floor.

Almost in the same instant, the others died. They died as silently as
they had lived, except for one simultaneous thought of agony that came
clearly to the humans' minds.

Kimball Trent leaped past the bulk of the first slain Gharrian, closed
the switches on the motors. Slowly they stopped, grew silent.

Without a word, Trent switched on the motors again, then raced at
Lura's side from the room. Behind, the motors began their keening song
again.

They found the outer door without trouble, guided by a supernal
instinct that needed no voluntary thought. Trent threw the great bar
and they raced outside, going toward the slope from which they had
attacked the Gharrians hours before.

They heard Korm's great voice cry out, and relief gave strength to
their flying legs. Then the blond giant was at their side, and behind
him they saw the hundreds who had followed his leadership.

"Run!" Trent panted. "The tower will blow within seconds."

Then the motors exploded, lifting the tower in shattered fragments,
blowing to dust the place that had been one of the Gharrians'
strongholds. Flames leaped a mile into the air, fed by the ruptured
atomic motors, spreading crimson light like the wave of a rock dropped
into a still pond. The concussion passed, and all was still, the column
of brilliance still leaping and pulsing into the night.

And watching the flame, his arm tight about the slender shoulders of
Lura, was Kimball Trent, the man who had lived five hundred years to
save his doomed world. He held her tightly, and the hope in his heart
was a singing melody that crept into his mind, tangling his thoughts.

"Call the Elder," he said to grinning Korm. "I have a story to tell of
a new home for all of us. And"--his voice grew strong, rang like that
of a prophet--"of a weapon we can make that the Gharrians cannot fight."

Then he and Lura stood alone in a night that was a dream and they
the dreamers. The first streamers of dawn were coming in the sky,
foretelling of the new day that was coming to their world.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Transcriber's Note: No section V heading in original text.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPIDER MEN OF GHARR ***

***** This file should be named 63826-0.txt or 63826-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/8/2/63826/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

