ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of Time Trap, by Frank Belknap Long

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Time Trap

Author: Frank Belknap Long

Release Date: December 05, 2020 [EBook #63838]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TIME TRAP ***




                               TIME TRAP

                         By FRANK BELKNAP LONG

                Somebody waited for old Charley Grimes,
                  plodding across that darkside Luna
                 crater--somebody who couldn't exist.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1948.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Charley Grimes was a big man who had been everywhere in the Solar
System and collected trophies which were as strange and shining as the
stories he liked to tell.

His face was as gaunt as the jungle mask and, when he lit a pipe and
smoked it, you watched to see where the smoke would drift. It wasn't
hard to picture it drifting over the mountains of the moon or across
the flat red plains of Mars.

We were sitting around a campfire in the Rockies just as our ancestors
must have sat five hundred years in the past. We were swapping yarns to
get Charley started, and watching the sun sink to rest on clouds shaped
like wild mustangs when the talk drifted to the dark side of the moon.

You know what it's like on the dark side. The brittle stars shine down
and the great craters loom up, but when you're flying low in a rocket
ship about all you can see through the viewpane is a circle of radiance
spotlighting a desolation as bleak as the Siberian Steppes.

You miss so many things you don't dare even think about the earth.
If you're an escapist you cover your bunk with pictures of the lush
Venusian jungles and pretend you're somewhere else. But if you're a
realist you go outside and come to grips with the bleakness in one way
or another.

Charley was a realist.

"So I went wandering off just to see what I could find!" Charley said.

We watched him get up, throw another log on the fire and draw his
Indian blanket around himself--so tightly he looked like a great
swathed mummy swaying in the glare.

"Nothing tremendous ever happens when you go exploring with all the
trimmings!" Charley went on. "You've got to be devil-may-care about it.
So I just made sure my helmet was screwed on tight and went striding
away from the ship like a clockwork orang-outang!

"If you've been on the dark side you know that there's a sensation of
bitter cold at all times--even when you're bundled up and in motion.
You keep looking back and wishing you hadn't--and before you can count
the stars in a square foot of sky you're at the bottom of a valley with
glacial sides and the desolation is so awful you want to sit down on
the nearest rock and never get up!"

Charley sat down, crossed his long legs and took a deep, slow puff on
his pipe.

"I shouted--just to hear the echoes come rolling back. You can talk to
yourself that way and get comfort out of it, because what you'll hear
will be the giant in yourself. The valley was so big a soaring eagle
would have burst its lungs trying to fly out of it.

"But don't get the idea I climbed down over an icy slope on a rope. I
simply sat down and let myself slide. Smooth? There wasn't a crevice or
a projection until I reached the bottom and picked myself up."

Charley nodded. "I had to lift off my helmet for a minute, to shake off
the ice. That's when I shouted and heard the echoes come rolling back.

"I'd clamped the helmet back on, and was adjusting my oxygen intake
when I happened to glance down at my big, square feet."

Charley chuckled.

"I've got outsized feet even when I'm as bare as a baby. But I was
wearing heavy moon-shoes, and the prints I'd left in the snow were
eight inches across!

"There was a straight line of prints, as big and square as my own,
leading out across the valley--prints I couldn't possibly have made.
I'd stumbled around a bit, of course. But I hadn't budged two yards
from the base of the slope.

"The oddest thing about that single trail of prints was the fact that
it started right where I was standing!

"An icy wind seemed to blow through me. On the moon you don't slide
down a steep slope and land right where someone else has been standing.
Not if you're in your right mind, you don't. The moon isn't that
thickly populated.

"I was badly shaken, I can tell you! But I didn't sit down and brood
over it. When you go into a huddle with yourself on the moon you're apt
to wind up looking like an ice-carved replica of Rodin's Thinker.

"I simply shaded my helmet with my palm, to cut down the starshine,
and stared across the valley. The valley was about a mile wide, and as
smooth as a skating rink over most of its surface. But about halfway
across a big mound of blue-gray sandstone broke the monotony by looming
up on the frozen plain like an African termite's nest.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Maybe you've seen some pictures of those big nests in travel books.
They were usually photographed with seven-foot natives standing beside
'em, to make you realize what insects could accomplish. Old travel
books, of course, because Africa is just one big stone highway now.

"Those nests were huge, weren't they? If my memory doesn't betray
me--some of those nests were twelve feet tall.

"Uh ... Uh. But this mound would have dwarfed twenty termite nests in
a valley of giants--all tumbled together and piled up in a skyward
direction.

"As near as I could make out the footprints ran right up to the base of
the mound, and stopped there.

"Well ... you can be sure I didn't just stand in my own prints goggling
up at the stars. I followed that impossible trail--straight out into
the valley as fast as I could clump.

"It took me about ten minutes to reach the mound. Once or twice I
stumbled and almost went sprawling. But whenever I felt the plain
slipping out from under me I shot a quick glance at the mound and its
sheer massiveness steadied me.

"Close up it had a corrugated, hoary look, as if it had bubbled up out
of the ground when the moon had a molten crust and been fused into a
mound by fire and earthquake.

"But when I halted directly in front of it I saw that it wasn't as
solid as it looked. It was riddled with little dark holes, as though a
woodpecker had spent at least a month making a wreck of it. And at its
base there was a wide, dark, tunnel-like opening.

"Another man might have thought of a hundred excuses for not crawling
through that tunnel on his hands and knees. But when my curiosity is
aroused I'm a very special kind of idiot.

"The tunnel was about twenty feet in length. I crawled along through
the darkness with my atomic blaster slapping against my hip, my heart
hammering against my ribs.

"When the smothering feeling you get in tunnels began to wear thin I
knew that it would be safe for me to stand up. You can feel a stone
wall arching above you without touching it, and I knew suddenly that I
was in the clear.

"When I got to my feet and stared about me I could see the dark end of
the tunnel and what appeared to be stone walls hemming me in. The walls
arched away into shadows, and were faintly luminous.

"I've spent as many hours underground as there are seeds in a
watermelon--so I can take a cave interior in my stride. But the mound
wasn't just hollow and cavelike and filled with wavering shadows. It
was--occupied!

"He was sitting on a projecting ledge in deep shadows. But the wall
behind him glowed, and I could see him clearly. He was wearing a
space-suit exactly like my own, but it was all shriveled up over him.

"Take a little monkey--a lemur or a spectral tarsier will do--and put
him inside a cumbersome space-suit, and let his bright eyes shine out
through the viewpane. Do that--and you'll have as clear a picture of
him as I could give you if I rambled on for ten minutes.

"I couldn't see the little fellow's face through the pane. It was all
a shadowy blue. But I could see his bright eyes, and I could tell he
was little by the way the suit overlapped, and bulged out in the wrong
places.

"You know how a kid of eight or ten looks when he puts on a man's suit
on Hallowe'en? But this wasn't Hallowe'en, and he wasn't trying to
scare anyone!

"He was too scared himself. He was shaking all over and when he saw me
his eyes got even brighter, and he started to get up. He was trembling
so I had to help him to his feet.

"I steadied him with one arm and lifted off the helmet with my free
hand. As you know, you can stay outside a suit on the moon without
getting frost-bitten for about half a minute.

"When his face came into view and his eyes looked straight into
mine I was so startled that fifteen seconds were lost right at the
start--before a single word could be exchanged between us. But at least
I had a chance to get a good look at him.

"If you saw yourself as a boy of ten, suddenly, without warning, would
you recognize yourself? Maybe some men would. If you looked at yourself
a lot in a mirror when you were growing up--or kept photographs of
yourself, carefully preserved in an old album, you might not have any
trouble. Right off you might hear yourself muttering, 'Why, that's
_me_!'

"But I had trouble. The kid's face was just enough like my own to give
me a start. But I couldn't really place it--couldn't remember where I
had seen it before.

"Then the kid spoke. 'I--I thought you were Pops! But you're not! He's
older! Where am I? How did I get here?'

       *       *       *       *       *

"The voice did something to me. You get a chance to hear yourself
talking a lot when you're knee-high to a grasshopper. And I had no kids
of my own! But my own father had looked enough like me to be my twin
brother, and if this kid thought I was his dad--

"It hit me between the eyes--and like a voice screaming at me through a
blur of spinning suns!

"I was staring at myself as I had been long ago--and no tracks made by
a dead man in a bog could have been more nerve-shattering.

"He wasn't even a poor little kid in a desperate plight, because you
can't feel paternal about yourself! He was a tormented ghost out of the
past, and for an instant I had an impulse to blame him and rail at him
for returning to torture me.

"But I'm not a cruel man, deep down, and that crazy impulse passed
quickly. He was a poor little lost cuss, even if he _was_ myself, and
all my sympathy went out to him.

"I even forgot for a moment how insane the whole thing was. He was
gasping for breath, so I put the helmet back on, and gave the oxygen
tube a double twist to straighten it out. But an instant before the
helmet descended over his mouth he managed to stammer, 'I was up in the
attic playing--'

"Playing 'Pirate's den!' I had spent the happiest years of my boyhood
in the attic, pretending I was Captain Kidd, or climbing out on the
tree that arched over our house when the December snows weighed it
down, and making myself out to be in the crow's nest of an arctic
windjammer!

"As I swayed there beside myself my mind followed crazy-paved paths
in all directions. Great chunks of the past seemed to float before
me--like icebergs nine-tenths submerged.

"But all the while the sanest part of my mind was seeking an
explanation that would one-tenth explain it! I gripped my own boy-self
by the shoulder to make sure he'd stay solid until the man he'd become
could get a mental toe-hold on the problem.

"If you can persuade a man to mount a stepladder and plant himself
firmly on the air you've taken your first brave step into the unknown.
The poor devil may or may not fall. But at least you've made a start in
the right direction.

"It isn't too hard to believe that certain things can happen to Time
on the wrong side of yesterday--or tomorrow! Time--the physicists tell
us--never stops flowing. It's like a melting candle or silk before it
hardens on the loom--all crinkled up and sparkling like a dew-drenched
spider web.

"If Time melts in a back-of-yesterday dimension what's to stop a man
from dissolving with it, and running in a thin trickle back to his
yesterdays? You were a boy once and you could be a boy again--without
ceasing to be a man.

"Put it this way. On the dark side of the moon there was a valley of
shadows. A big, blundering fool went stumbling into it, and landed in
a heap. Before he could pick himself up a part of himself dissolved
in some unimaginable backwash of time, and he became a boy again. His
boy-self split off from him, and went stumbling off over the plain in a
suit five sizes too large for him.

"It's not as impossible as it sounds. The boy you were still exists in
Time, and he could emerge from the past to stand beside you in a vortex
of dissolving Time. Was there something in the valley that could change
the flow of time, reverse it, and twist it around like butter in a
churn?

"The answer was right there in the cave with me. But I couldn't see
it because _another_ space-suited figure was making my brain whirl.
He'd come clumping into the cave bent nearly double, and now he was
shuffling toward me as though I'd committed some horrible crime I could
never hope to atone for.

"Through the pane of his helmet his eyes burned accusingly into mine.
But it wasn't until he halted directly in front of me and lifted the
helmet from his head that I knew what my crime was and why he found it
hard to forgive me.

"I had committed the crime of living beyond my alloted span! The man
facing me was old ... old. His face was still my face, but if ever I
had been young and handsome and a target for the wiles of a pretty
woman I was so no longer!

"He seemed to realize that I could hardly bear to look upon myself as I
would be, for he spoke sharply, quickly, without attempting to explain
his presence, or even to prepare me for what he had to say by working
up to it like a story-teller with a great load of unimaginable horror
on his mind.

"'It's a monstrous beast of prey!' he croaked. 'It can dissolve Time
and re-shape Time in a hundred horrible ways!'

"He quirked his head at me. 'You know more than that lad but I know
more than you--for I have lived through this moment before! Once long
ago I stood in this cave and warned you! You are at the crossroads of
a branching future! If you take the right turn now you will live to
become me. But, if you take the wrong turn--'

"He straightened, and pointed with his gloved forefinger into the
shadows behind me. 'It is there--at your back! When you turn you will
see the shining web which it uses to dissolve Time! All over this
valley the creature has thrown a Time-dissolving web of force!'

       *       *       *       *       *

"His voice rose warningly. 'It is as intelligent as we are, but it
moves with glacial slowness. An inch in an hour--a foot in a day! When
it dissolves Time it nourishes itself by drawing the energy-whirl into
itself, and spinning it out again in another form, like an immense,
living shuttlecock. A spider--'

"He looked at me with a haggard intensity of appeal. 'It will try to
hold you with the web--to hold you in complete helplessness until you
become a hundred lads and a hundred men. You'll be an infant, a boy of
five, a lad of twenty, and a man older than myself. But every time you
split up in the folds of the web you'll lose a part of your substance.

"'You'll cease to be a man with a past and a future. You'll become a
mere hollow shell--no more substantial than I am, and I am little more
than a wraith. You'll be drained, and you'll vanish like a puff of
smoke. You'll be devoured and swallowed up!'

"He was struggling for breath and the veins on his forehead had begun
to swell. 'You've got to blast it down before the web dazzles and
confuses you! You'll have to face it to blast, but if you fight it with
your mind--'

"Suddenly the helmet was back on his head and he was turning from me.
He moved straight toward the lad and put a palsied hand on the shoulder
of that younger me.

"Then, slowly, they both turned to face me, and I could see their
eyes inside their helmets, trained upon me in desperate appeal. At
least--there was appeal in the eyes of the old one. The lad may have
been merely terrified, and confused.

"He couldn't have been more terrified than I was as the shadows
lengthened about me, and a coldness crept into my bones.

"I knew I'd have to come to grips with the web. I knew, too, that
if it was behind me I'd be safer facing it. When there's something
unspeakable at your back, you can die so many deaths just waiting for
it to make its presence known that all the courage and decision goes
out of you.

"Panic smote me as I turned, hip and thigh like a flat sword. But all I
could see for an instant was a faint, moving radiance blending with the
shadows, a kind of nebulous flowing in the darkness on the far side of
the cave.

"My hand must have closed on my blaster, for I could feel the bite of
cold metal against my palm. But there was something about the light
that my will could not withstand. My arms seemed to freeze as I stared
at it, and terrifying thoughts rushed into my brain.

[Illustration: _My arms seemed to freeze!_]

"At first I experienced only a feeling of almost unbearable oppression.
Then something in the glow seemed to reach out toward me and there was
no sound in the cave but the beating of my heart.

"A ghastly something seemed to be watching me with a kind of fiendish
triumph, as though the soul of a devil lurked in the depth of the light
which could send out vampire tendrils, filmed with writhing menace.

"I couldn't tear my eyes from the glow and the longer I stared the
worse it got.

"The light seemed filled with an evil purpose. It writhed and changed
shape as I stared at it, seeming to sweep out through the walls of the
cave and back again with a pulsing greediness.

"Then, gradually, it ceased to blend with the shadows. It became
stationary and transparent, hanging suspended in the murky air like a
gigantic burning glass.

"As though in a dream-delirium I became slowly aware that a picture
was forming within it. A valley swept into view, walled with high,
saw-toothed mountain ranges.

"Deep in the weaving radiance I could see a tiny, plodding figure
coming toward me across the valley.

"For an instant I thought I was looking at the far-off image of a human
figure plodding over the plain. A figure clad in a heavy space-suit,
moving awkwardly--as I had moved.

"Nearer it came and nearer, its reflection floating on ahead of it,
bobbing about like a little ship.

"And then, suddenly, I saw that it was _skimming_ the plain. It was
balancing itself on flapping wings, sweeping across the plain without
actually touching it, but so slowly that it appeared to be advancing
with the plodding, awkward gait of a man.

"It swerved abruptly as I stared, made a full turn, and soared into the
air. It flew straight toward me, its wings beating the air as though it
were struggling against a furious uprush of wind.

"There was a sloping wall of light-dappled rock at the edge of the
radiance, and for an instant the winged shape disappeared behind it. I
didn't see it descend.

"I saw only a shadow forming behind the rock, and swirling out from
it. It came into view again abruptly, dragging its wings behind it,
hobbling toward me over the ice.

       *       *       *       *       *

"My spine congealed. The thing that had crossed the valley was a
monstrous bird of prey. It was wearing a space-suit, but no helmet, and
I could see its vulture-like head bobbing about in the glow.

"It seemed to be in pain. It had halted at the edge of the glow, as
if fearful of what lay beyond it, and suddenly as I stared it began
furiously to pluck and tear at its breast with its taloned foreclaws.

"So frenzied were the creature's exertions that the front of its
space-suit came away in shreds. The hideous creature had scales on its
breast instead of feathers, and a pulsing, lizardlike throat ... a
throat which turned red as it continued to inflict cruel injuries on
itself.

"The impression I got was one of agonized despair, of a creature
trapped and cornered that could only escape by destroying itself. Again
and again it slashed at its flesh, twisting about in the glow, its eyes
brimming with agony.

"Then, suddenly, it was no longer alone. A little bird-lizard shape
had materialized at its side and was going through the same grisly
pantomime.

"As I blinked in stunned disbelief a third shape swam into view--and a
fourth. The eyes of the third shape were dull and opaque, like frosted
glass, and the fourth shape was so atrophied that the scales on its
breast seemed to overlap, squeezing out the flesh between them.

"Then, abruptly, the first shape began to grow transparent. It
shriveled and glistened, and I could see its skeleton gleaming beneath
the glassy transparency of its dissolving flesh.

"It vanished in a gush of gray light, so quickly that the air about it
had a sucked-in look. Swiftly, terribly, the other shapes converged
toward that swirling vacuum and were swallowed up, as though with their
passing Time had collapsed in upon itself.

"That Time _had_ collapsed I knew! For I am no fool. Long ago the alien
inhabitant of another world had landed in that valley of all horror,
and the living shuttlecock had split it up into time fragments, the
better to destroy it.

"It wanted me to know that--to realize that my time was short. So it
had brought back a scene out of the past to unnerve me, and sap my will!

"Could I go on taking it? I hadn't much time to think about it--for the
web was filling with another picture. A living shuttlecock, the old one
had called it. So now it was weaving another picture for me on Time's
dissolving loom.

"It was a picture so hideous I could hardly bring myself to believe in
it. It was a picture of still another me. But if the old one had seemed
palsied, wretched, at the end of his endurance--the face that stared
out at me from the radiance was a thousandfold more so!

"It was a face that had lost itself in Time--a face that was all
sagging jowls and puckered brows, a toothless, yellowed caricature of a
face.

"But it was my face still--_my_ face ravaged by a century's decay!

"Looking at myself as I would be--I suddenly had no longer any desire
to live. A small, shrill voice shrieked within me that the monstrous,
living shuttlecock desired just that--that it was resorting to a
devilish subterfuge!

"But I did not heed the voice. I just stood there, waiting to die,
hoping that the end would come quickly.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The blast was deafening! The sudden crash of it made a muffled booming
in the thin air, and smashed against my eardrums like a trump of doom.
The flare was blinding. The awful brightness of it lit up the cave like
a hundred suns, and burned through my eyeballs into my brain.

"When the smoke cleared all I could see at first was a shattered
something lying on the floor of the cave, all twisted and bent back on
itself like a smoking heap of shattered glass.

"As I shook my big, dull head to clear it my boy-self lifted off his
helmet and returned his blaster to the holster on his hip. His face was
shining with triumph. The sweat was running off it and he was breathing
heavily.

"But he spoke to me and his words were good to hear.

"'We got him, pal!'

"He didn't say 'it'--didn't refer to the monstrous creature as
something unspeakably alien.

"No--why should he? To him it wasn't a horror in the valley of the
moon. It was something out of a nightmare and he knew he'd wake up safe
in his own little bed at home.

"He was still thinking of me as his father--in a nightmare. We'd been
hunting jabberwocks together!

"And that lad was still in me--a part of me! I tell you, it sobered me
and made me feel ashamed.

"I was still feeling ashamed when both the boy and the old one
vanished. Perhaps melted back would be a better way of putting it. For
they did seem to dissolve and flow back, rush back, into me an instant
before I found myself standing alone again--in that valley that would
never grow old!"

Charley had arisen and was standing by the fire. Suddenly he stooped
and threw another log into the flames.

Far to the west the lights of the biggest spaceport on Earth blinked
through the purple haze, and every time a ship took off, bound for the
great outer planets, the desert would light up for miles.

But that light couldn't hold a candle to the one that blazed in
Charley's eyes.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TIME TRAP ***

***** This file should be named 63838-0.txt or 63838-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/8/3/63838/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

