ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Madcap Metalloids, by W.V. Athanas

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: The Madcap Metalloids

Author: W.V. Athanas

Release Date: November 22, 2020 [EBook #63843]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MADCAP METALLOIDS ***




                         The Madcap Metalloids

                           By W. V. ATHANAS

             Plucked from the space-lanes by its ravening
            magnetism, the two intrepid Terrans defied the
              death of this deadly radio-active worldlet
             by playing games with the roly-poly natives!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1949.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Jonathan Drake swam back to consciousness as a bubble rises through
molasses--slowly, and with great effort. His arms lay heavily on the
padded rests of the shock-chair, and his lids drooped persistently
despite the shouted commands of his brain. A bubble of air rose
reluctantly up his throat to operate his paralyzed vocal cords.

"Doc," he croaked. "Doc?" The words bounced off the polished metal
walls of the room. There was no sound after that but the soft purr of
the control board.

Jonathan walked his hand along the arm rest like a spider, each finger
a leg drawing the weighted hand a step further like a tremendous body.
Finally a finger found the cup of the release button, and the pneumatic
pads fell free of thigh, belly and chest. He slid the button forward
and the shock-seat tilted him forward and decanted him gently onto the
floor.

He could hear Doc breathing now, the sound of it harsh above the quiet
humming of the dynamics, and he rolled on over and heaved his body off
the floor with both arms.

"Puny," he muttered to himself. "Weak as a baby. Must have been a rough
landing."

He fought his way to his hands and knees, but his body rebelled at the
task of rising to his feet.

_This is getting to where it ain't funny_, he thought, and scrambled
with great effort to the control board.

He had a look at the G-gauge and whistled softly. 3.4! _Leaping Luna,
no wonder!_ He forced his hand to the knurled knob of the control lever
and clicked it down four notches. He held it there a moment, then eased
it back a fraction by twisting the knob. The dynamics' hum rose a note
and the weight began to fall from him.

He stepped swiftly to the other shock-chair and released the
restrainers with one impatient stabbing finger. Doc had a bluish tinge
about his mouth and his breathing was a bit ragged.

"Doc," said Jon sharply. He thumbed one of Doc's eyes open and studied
the pupil. "Too much deceleration," he muttered, and wheeled to the
black kit on the wall.

His eye caught the visi-plate over the control panel in passing, and
he gave the bleak plain it showed a casual glance. Something round and
black traveled across the field of vision, but was gone almost as soon
as it caught his attention. He flicked a quick look to see that the
automatic cameras were recording, and returned to Doc.

Doc made no response to the jab of the needle, but within ten seconds
the color flooded to his face and he snapped his head up with alert
attention.

"We made it," said Doc with instant comprehension. Doc was bald as an
egg, though he was not yet thirty-five, and his lips were red and full
and smiled easily. Behind those twinkling blue eyes--as Jon knew full
well--was a brain that operated at its peak during stress, a mind that
knew neither dismay nor panic.

His eyes twinkled now with sharp inquiry. "How does it look, Jon?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The lean dark-haired pilot shrugged. "I haven't seen much of it yet.
Instruments show that we aren't cracked--outer and inner hulls still
holding pressure. Tremendous gravity, no atmosphere. Entire area
slightly radio-active. Haven't had time to check the recording tapes
yet. I blacked out about the same time you did."

Doc caught his lower lip between his white even teeth for a moment.
Then he tilted himself out of the shock-chair and rolled the stiffness
out of his broad shoulders. "Tapes first," he said.

Jon clipped another reel into the recorder and stopped the whirring of
the one he wanted. He slipped it onto the reversing spindle, pulled
out the tag-end inside and fed it into the slot. Then he tapped two
cigarettes alight on his thumbnail, gave one to Doc and stepped back to
watch.

The asteroid showed up with surprising suddenness out of the void that
was deep space. Its outlines were blurry at first, but sharpened as
the spotter focused on it. It was traveling at tremendous speed, for
the star patterns behind it changed even as they watched. The metallic
voice of the sound track came in now, recording the instrument readings.

"Ship's course Z-point RD 3784. Object's course Z-point AD 1892." The
speaker droned on with data, speed of ship, computed speed of object,
drive ratings. Then: "Collision course. Collision course. Repeating.
Collision course."

The black mass of the asteroid shifted on the screen and momentarily
went out of focus as the ship spun on its axis and the rear viewers
took over. Then the scene was streaked with flame as the main jets put
on full emergency deceleration.

The rest of the recording tape was nightmarish. The flaring of the jets
stuttered--then stopped. The dispassionate mechanical voice of the
speaker reported the main converter feed jammed, and almost instantly
reported that auxiliary units were operating.

Doc shuddered reminiscently at this. He recalled the tortuous crawl
through the tunnel into the converter room, the shoving of the screen
ahead of him in the flickering blue glow of the room, the unjamming of
the 'foolproof' feeding reel that had been installed especially for
this exploration.

The twenty minutes it took had been enough. The ship lurched to the
pull of this concentrated hulk of God-knew-what, and went into a tight
orbit around the asteroid.

They were just too close. They came in lower and lower, and finally
Jon threw on full power. Hobson's choice. Fall into the mass or kill
themselves with high-G deceleration. Jon chose deceleration.

Both pairs of eyes watched the changing pictures with fascinated gaze.
This was where they had blacked out.

It was sheer luck. The tape showed that they had gone tumbling
across the bleak land below in a crazy pinwheeling motion. The nose
dropped forward into the line of flight just as the belly of the ship
slammed into the plain. For perhaps fifty Earth miles the ship cut
its screaming swath across the bosom of the naked plain. Then motion
stopped, and the tape showed nothing but the dead land for minute after
minute.

"All right," said Doc, and Jon reached for the switch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then motion showed on the screen. A sphere came out of the side, rolled
up to the nose of the ship, hesitated, then rolled on almost out of the
range of the lens. Then it simply disappeared. The tape whirred on to
its end, and the machine clicked off.

"Now what in the name of the Sacred Blick of Venus," said Jon, "was
that?"

"I pass," replied Doc. "Let's see that again."

They saw it again. And again. What appeared to be a solid sphere of
shiny black metal rolled across the plain, paused before the nose of
the ship, rolled on--and simply disappeared!

"Well," said Doc at last, "this is still Exploration Unit X-3. First we
eat, then we start getting this all down on tapes. Then we check the
ship, and maybe we take a look-see around. Then we get the hell out of
here. But first we eat."

Jon busied himself breaking out the rations. This consisted of
picking two tins out of the locker, rapping them sharply on the rod
that protruded from the case and setting them aside. In about thirty
seconds the tins emitted a tired sigh and the lids raised slightly. The
portions of food, each in its own clear plastic bag, were hot and ready.

Doc dropped his postprandial cigarette into the disposal slot and came
to his feet.

"On your feet, Fly-boy," he ordered. "Plenty workee, so chop chop, up
and at it."

"Slave driver," sneered Jon. He squirmed into his antirad suit. He
poised the helmet and fired his blast. "I gotta sweat my head off, back
there, and you play with tapes up here. Talk about your men and boys.
Hah!" And he dogged down the helmet. He could see Doc's lips moving and
grinned pleasantly. He made motions to show that he wasn't hearing a
word.

He was still grinning when he undogged the tunnel lock and closed
it behind him. Between the double doors, he twisted his body in the
cramped space to undog the second door. When it swung open, he had to
crawl through the narrow opening into the tunnel. He thrust head and
shoulders into the opening, and the weight of the world fell on him.
He was jammed against the floor with an unbearable weight, and the
threshold of the lock-door was slowly cutting him in two.

"Doc!" he screamed into the mouthpiece in his helmet. "Doc, give me a
hand!" Then a cold hand closed over his heart.

_The transmitter was off!_ In his horseplay he had not turned the knob,
and now his hands were welded to the floor by the crushing weight.

He lashed out frantically with his lead-soled feet, for they could
still move. He tried to pound the lead soles in the distress code, but
the pain of his crushed ribs was telegraphing down his nerves and the
rhythm was erratic.

_Here it comes_, he thought bleakly, and a black wave curled over his
thoughts.

He caught his breath and gagged. He looked up into Doc's anxious eyes
and pulled the mask that was feeding him oxygen off his face.

"Whoosh," he said. "What was that?"

"Just plain gravity," replied Doc. "The Stable-G unit just covers the
flight-compartment here, as you well know. When you stuck your head
into the tunnel, you went over the edge, and the part of you that was
in the tunnel must have weighed tons. I had to put a power winch on you
to drag you out. Wonder it didn't pull you in two. We'd have thought of
that if we both hadn't been trying to be funny." They considered this
soberly for some minutes.

"Well," said Jon, raising a soothing hand to his aching neck, "that
takes care of that. The drive compartment is out of bounds for us until
we can get Stable-G into that tunnel."

"Yes," said Doc shortly. He turned to the rack where he had been
working. He tossed the correlation tapes to Jon.

"Read 'em and weep," he said grimly.

Jon skimmed the tapes quickly. Twice he went back and checked the cold
merciless facts. Finally he looked up and took a deep breath. It was
unescapable fact, this asteroid was radio-active. It was only a matter
of time until the ship would be contaminated.

"How long?" He forced his voice into steadiness.

Doc tapped a cigarette alight and took a deep lungful of smoke. He
pursed his lips and gazed at the glowing end with deep distaste.
"Between three and four days," he said slowly. "Say seventy-two hours
to be safe."

"Well," said Jon, "let's see about getting this can the hell out of
here." He settled himself in his seat and his experienced hands ran
smoothly over the multitude of controls.

The amber READY light slowly slid through the spectrum until it
reached green. Then the red warning lights came on above the firing
switches.

"Set," he said over his shoulder, and Doc slid into his shock-chair and
clicked the switch. "Right," said Doc.

Jon flipped the three toggle switches and shoved the red power lever
full ahead. The ship quivered, and the tiny shudders of strain
telegraphed their way up to Jon's sensitive nerves. But the ship moved
not at all. Jon cursed softly and threw the auxiliaries on. The sense
of strain grew until it was nearly unbearable. The ship edged ahead,
six inches, six more, then the warning lights began to pop on above the
control panel.

Jon groaned, and cut power. He swiveled around.

"That's all," he said, "unless you want to get out and push." They
unstrapped silently and lighted cigarettes without looking at each
other. Unconsciously their eyes went to the Geiger. It clicked softly,
and the sensitive needle jumped half across the dial and fell back. The
needle of the accumulator dial was already lifting off the pin. Again
the Geiger clicked and the needle jumped.

"Well," said Doc tiredly, "let's start getting it down on record tape.
It may do some good someday."

       *       *       *       *       *

The transmitter was set on automatic, and was tirelessly throwing out
its XER, XER, XER, in Interplanetary Code. But only a hissing roar
came from the speaker tuned to the Explocenter channel. Doc got up and
turned the volume down. He rubbed his hands together briskly.

"Let's go out and have a look-see," he suggested.

"You nuts?" inquired Jon sourly. "We'd be squashed like a couple of
bugs the second we step off Stable-G."

Ole Doc thought about that. We put a small Stable-G unit on each foot
of a space suit and run them off the dynamics in the suit. By coupling
the secondary off the S-G unit on the right foot to the metal suit, and
the primary of the left one ditto, we can convert the whole suit into
a S-G, and be as safe as if we were in church. Just to be safe, we'll
hook up a suit and shove it into the air-lock to test it.

It worked.

Doc insisted on being the first out. He ran a loop of eighth-inch
shielded warping line through the towing rings on the shoulders of his
suit and grounded the shielding to the suit with a dab of welding metal.

"If I get stuck, Jon," his voice came tinnily through the phones, "haul
me back with the winch. And whatever you do, watch the weld on your end
of the shielding. There should be enough juice in it to keep it inert."
Jon nodded, and Doc broke the seal on the outer door.

For a split-second the air glittered with pinpoints of light as the
moisture in the air-lock solidified. Then the crystals blinked out
as the further cold broke the solids into their separate gasses and
dispersed them. Doc slowly descended the ladder to the ground. His
voice kept up a steady drone, feeding information to Jon and to the
recorders tuned in on the control panel.

"I am clear of the ship now, by about twenty meters. Surface seems to
be a sort of metallic sand--granulated at least--but solid as steel. My
relative weight seems to be about 1.5, with S-G unit at maximum. The
area seems to be absolutely barren, without even a hummock or dune in
sight. The.... Whup! There's one of those things--those spheres--just
ahead, about thirty degrees off the ship's nose. Stand by--I'm coming
back to the air-lock."

Jon swiftly hauled in the slack in the line, hand over hand, and
pressed the winch control to feed the slack onto the drum.

"Hold it," came Doc's voice. "It's disappeared again. Whup! Now there's
one over here on my right, at about a hundred meters. Spherical shape,
black, about five and a half or six meters in diameter ... now it seems
to be settling into the surface; assuming a hemispherical form....
Whup! Disappeared again! Reel me in, Jon. We've got to get some
high-speed shots of this."

It never occurred to either of them that there was no point in making
these recordings. Explocenter hand-picked its men, and insatiable
curiosity was the first requisite. Quick judgment and moral stamina
came next. And first, last, and always--'get it down on records'.

The Geiger clicked softly on the bulk-head and the needle of the
accumulator was working toward the red area, but neither paused to
consider these things now. They had made their try, exhausted their
resources.

       *       *       *       *       *

But in the back of their minds was the knowledge that within a
few months a statistician at Explocenter would mark Explounit X-3
"missing", and at the end of the year two more names would be added
to the column at Explocenter; that shaft of gray venustron that stood
beside the main entrance, whereon was the long, long scroll of names.
Simple monument to the men of Explocenter who never came back.

"We can't take the big tele-lens outside," mused Doc, "so we'll have to
record off the visi-plate. I'll go outside again, and spot for you, and
you can line the 'plate on my bearings."

"Huh-uh. My turn," retorted Jon. "Why should you have all the fun? I'm
going out this time, and you can shoot pictures to your little heart's
content. Besides, I'm going to tuck my little personal camera into my
helmet under my chin and get some shots on the spot."

"All right," snorted Doc. "But don't come crying to papa if you stub
your toe. And look both ways before you cross the street. Here--let me
blow your nose before you go out in the cold."

"Aw go to Helios, you retort-smasher. If I run into a ground squirrel,
I'll skin him and bring you some hair."

Jon eased down the ladder and shuffled across the smooth surface until
he was well clear of the ship.

"Nothing yet," he reported, and swept the horizon with his glance.

"I could have told you," said Doc nastily. "Your ugly face scared them
away."

"Yeah," snorted Jon. "Every stenotyper at Explo has your beautiful mug
pasted in the top drawer of her desk."

"Sure!" agreed Doc smugly.

"Well," said Jon impatiently, and under his breath. "Come on, you black
boogers--I ain't got all day." Then he gulped.

For a huge black sphere materialized about fifty meters to his left
and rolled swiftly toward him. Jon beat a hasty retreat. He backed
toward the ship, and jogged the camera under his chin to start it
operating. The sphere paused a second, then rolled slowly after him.

"Steady," came Doc's voice in the phones. "I got a dis-ray on it."

Jon felt better, though he knew that a dis-ray blast this close to him
would fricassee him too. He told Doc so.

"What's the difference?" inquired Doc, the first note of their doom in
his voice. "Fast or slow--take your choice."

"Take your pictures, ground-hog," grunted Jon. "I'll do the heavy
thinking around here."

"Don't sprain your neck with it, Fly-boy."

It was that dull black hopelessness in the back of Jon's mind that gave
him the bravado that he showed then. He took a quick step toward the
sphere.

"Scat," he snarled savagely, and waved his arms. "Shoo! Get lost!"

Then his mouth gaped. It was gone! Vanished!

"Doc!" he yelled, "did you see that?"

"Yup," came Doc's matter-of-fact voice. "Got it all here on the tape.
Blip! Gone, just like before."

"That isn't what I mean," protested Jon. His brain was staggered by the
half-formed thoughts that crowded it. "Now get this, Doc."

He shouted, "Come back here! Right here in front of me." For the space
of three slow heartbeats nothing happened. Then, with the air of having
been there all the time, the sphere materialized.

Breathing carefully, Jon said. "Roll toward me." The sphere hesitated a
second, then came obediently toward him.

"Stop!" said Jon. The sphere was stock-still in the instant.

"Doc," cried Jon, excitement cracking his voice, "these star-blasted
boogers can think!"

"Come on in out of the sun, Fly-boy," said Doc wearily. "The heat's
getting you. It's coincidence. Or you moved to attract it, or
something."

"No," protested Jon. "Now look. I'm going to cut off my trans, but I'll
call my shots first. I'm going to have it roll left, then right, then
back to center. Got that? Left, right, and back to center. Over and
out." And Jon cut off his transmitter.

       *       *       *       *       *

He stood stock-still and formed the impression in his mind. _Now roll
to my left_, he thought. The blank sphere moved to the spot indicated.
_Now to my right._ The huge sphere obeyed the mental commands with the
joyous precision of a rookie Space Patrolman who has just learned his
Parade Manual.

For fifteen minutes Jon put the hulking ball through its paces, and
then as suddenly as it had appeared, the rapport was lost. The sphere
trundled off across the plain, oblivious to Jon's commands, and finally
settled to a hemisphere in the distance. Jon opened his trans.

"Yah," came Doc's disgusted voice. "He never jumped through no hoop."

"Drop it," retorted Jon curtly. "He got tired of it. Did you get it all
down?"

"Every bit of it. Better come on in now, and we'll look it over."

Jon was suddenly tired, and he thought of the soft chairs in the
Flight Room. But there would be that damned Geiger clicking, and the
accumulator needle working into the red.

Jon knew suddenly that he was not going back to the ship. _What's the
percentage in waiting for it_, he thought, _when I might as well be
taking a look-see over the hill? Oh, come now Jon-me-lad, what hill?_

Into the trans he said, "Put a lamp in the window, Mother Dear. I'm
going to look the sitchy-ation over. I'll hold on the line of the ship
to the horizon, then bear right on the circle till I get back. Have
supper ready--and please, no horse-radish in the broccoli."

Doc's voice came through with a trace of worry in it. "We shouldn't
separate until we know more about this."

"To quote an outstanding authority," said Jon, "one Randall E. 'Doc'
Martin, 'what's the difference? Fast or slow--take your choice'. End of
quote."

"All right," agreed Doc tiredly. "But Jon, don't do, uh, anything rash."

"G'bye, Clabberhead," retorted Jon fondly. "Over and out."

Black depression settled on Jon as he trudged toward the horizon.
Unwilling impressions returned to his brain. He remembered the crew
of the XP-14. Their converter had been cracked in a jet blowout. The
commander was in the Rest Home on Venus. His head and shoulders looked
like a mushroom. Colloids. Lucky, everybody said, just a light burn.
His brain was still good.

So he carried his obscenity of a head around and found his way with a
radar rod. Some of the others weren't so lucky; the flesh melted off
their bones. Some of them had glowed before they died.

_I'll stick with it until the time limit's up_, he thought, _then I'll
blast my suit or cut the S-G circuit. Quick and easy._

He approached the sphere--hemisphere now--and wondered casually why it
assumed that shape. Feeding, probably. But what would a metal ball eat?
On the other hand, how did it receive his mental commands? _Drop it,
Jonny, you're just going in circles._

The sphere popped back into shape at his approach and circled
coquettishly about him. It stopped before him and seemed to be waiting.
Jon grinned.

"Booger, you ear-banger, you're bucking for stripes. All right.... To
the rear, MARCH!" Booger spun on his axis and trundled briskly away.

"Halt! By the right oblique, MARCH! RIGHT!... WHEEL! Halt! At Ease!"
Booger came patiently to rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fancy came over Jon that it would indeed be a sight to organize a
drill team of these spheres. "Booger," he thought suddenly, "where are
your friends? You can't be the only one on this Godforsaken world. Go
get 'em, Booger." Booger sat for a bit and then rolled playfully to and
fro.

Jon phrased his thoughts carefully. He visualized a double row of
Boogers, five to the row, before him. _Go get the rest of them,
Booger_, he thought. Booger quivered, and then like snapping off a
light tube, he was gone.

Within ten seconds, he popped back. Beside him a twin materialized,
then two more.

Finally all ten of them were there, in two rows of five.

"Squad, Right Face!" ordered Jon. "Forward MARCH! HALT! Hey, dress
up those ranks there." The right-end sphere in the front rank was at
least two meters out of position. Booger broke ranks without orders
and trundled swiftly to the side of the offending one, wheeled in a
short arc and vigorously hunched him into position. Jon applauded with
space-gloved hands.

[Illustration: "_Squad, Right Face! Forward MARCH! HALT!_"]

"All right, Booger, you win. You are hereby promoted to Corporal of the
Drake Irregulars. Now let's see some snappy close-order drill."

They drilled for some minutes, and then in a particularly tricky
maneuver, the squad went to pieces. Two of them simply vanished. Three
of them squatted--that was the only word Jon could find to fit--into
hemispheres, and the rest either stopped or trundled about aimlessly.

"Well all right," said Jon with dignity. "Squad dismissed." He turned
away to continue his tramp, and stopped with a startled gasp. There
were spheres all about him. Ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty--there must be
at least fifty of them, he calculated.

"Well, this is cozy," he said. "If I'd known I was working before an
audience, I'd shown you some real drilling. Some audience, sitting on
your hands."

He walked through the throng of them, giving them plenty of leeway
in case one of them decided to roll his way. One, he thought it must
be the one he had named Booger, followed him slowly. He got a good
close-up look at several of them.

Smooth sleek balls they were, with shiny metallic surfaces, unbroken by
any mark. No eyes, no feeding orifices, just smooth spheres.

_What a bunch of bowling balls you'd make_, he thought, _if we just had
some pins_. Then he gasped.

At least six of them had extruded necks and _were_ huge bowling pins!

"Now wait a minute," he gasped. "Do that again." They did. It seemed to
be contagious. Within a few seconds he was surrounded by a veritable
gallery of bowling pins, ten meters high!

He closed his eyes and counted to twenty--slowly. Then he snapped his
eyes open quickly. They were still there.

"Doc was right," he groaned. "The heat's getting me." Then his
whimsical humor made him think, _Booger, come here!_

One of the anonymous pins sprang back into a sphere and trundled to
him. Jon made a sweeping gesture.

"Knock 'em down," he ordered. Booger took a rolling start and smashed
into the ranks of pins with the enthusiasm of a runaway space tug. The
earth-quaking impact shook Jon off his feet. He lay stretched on his
belly laughing hysterically at the ludicrous sight.

_Steady lad_, some sane corner of his brain whispered. _Steady. This is
no time to go to pieces._

_What the hell_, he retorted to himself. _At least the condemned man
had a hearty laugh._ But he pulled himself to his feet and trudged back
to the ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doc silently busied himself with the storage of the new reels after
they had eaten.

"I found out how they do that disappearing act," he said finally.
"It showed up on the high-speed shots. They shoot out a long
pseudopod--like a wire. Then they snap back into a sphere at the other
end. It's simply darned fast locomotion."

"Yes," agreed Jon, "and they can shape themselves into bowling pins and
stuff too. And hold it. Their shape, I mean."

A thought was uncurling in Jon's mind. "Doc, do you suppose ... by
golly, it's _got_ to work!"

And Doc was watching with astonished red-rimmed eyes as Jon slid
through the neck of his space suit in its stand in the corner. Jon's
voice faded out and came in over the speaker as the wrench settled the
helmet in its seat and fell away.

"Warm up the converter, Doc. You'll have to handle that end this
time. When I give the word, throw everything on--mains, auxiliaries,
steering, everything. I'll have to do my end from the air-lock. And
whatever you do, _don't cut acceleration until we're out of orbit and
on course away_. Chop chop, chum."

Doc gaped at the door of the air-lock for a second, then shrugged and
started closing switches. If the hottest spaceman of Explocenter said
"try" ... well, what could you lose?

Jon's voice came in over the speaker again. "Booger! Booger, you big
lump, come here. Doc, I'm cutting off trans for a minute, it seems to
work better when I think it to him."

The seconds ticked off into minutes, and the READY light was full
green. Doc's hand trembled a bit on the firing levers, and he checked
the restrainers in his shock-chair for the third time.

Thirty seconds dragged by, and sweat budded on his forehead. "What in
Helios is he ..." he muttered, and then the speaker crackled with the
one word: "NOW!"

Doc slammed the firing levers home, and instantly was driven deep into
his shock-chair. Blackness washed out his trailing thought, _Leaping
Luna, what is this doing to Jon? There is no shock-pad in the air-lock._

It did plenty. It took all of Doc's skill and three weeks at Venusenter
before the brash spaceman was clamoring for active duty.

"You see, Doc," he answered the question, "Booger and the rest were
telepathic--one way at least. I had him gather about fifty of them, so
if one or two quit on the job, it wouldn't make too much difference.
Then I had them extrude themselves into cables clear over the horizon.
I had them hook their ... well, tail ends onto the fins of the ship.
Then I gave them the word to get over the hill--fast. With our power,
and their catapult action, it worked just like a Plutonian Cradle. Gave
us that extra boost we needed."

"But what was their incentive?" inquired Doc. "What made them take your
orders?"

Jon grinned broadly. "They ain't very smart. And life there is pretty
monotonous. It tickled them to have some one give them something to do.
Besides that, just before I passed the word to Booger, I commissioned
him Commander-in-Chief of Drake's Irregulars. Authority-crazy, that
Booger."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MADCAP METALLOIDS ***

***** This file should be named 63843-0.txt or 63843-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/8/4/63843/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

