ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of S.O.S. Aphrodite!, by Stanley Mullen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: S.O.S. Aphrodite!

Author: Stanley Mullen

Release Date: November 23, 2020 [EBook #63856]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK S.O.S. APHRODITE! ***




                           S.O.S. APHRODITE!

                           By STANLEY MULLEN

              No wonder that signal stabbed out into the
             icy void. For it was a ship of hate and evil,
              and ISP patrolman Steve Coran trusted only
             one person--after strapping her in her bunk!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1949.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


On the high metallic wall across the street was a big sign: VENUS
TRANSPORT and a smaller sign which read CONTAMINATION AREA--KEEP OUT!
Steve Coran turned away from the window and faced the ISP official
across the desk.

"From the time you leave this office, you'll be in deadly danger," the
official said. "We aren't dealing with sporadic cases of space piracy.
This is a well-organized group of saboteurs, pirates and assassins
backed by a ring of powerful and unscrupulous men, some of them in
high places. They have more on their minds than mere looting. They
have certain political objectives--and will stop at nothing to cause
unrest, even war or revolution, to gain their ends. Fishers in troubled
waters...."

Coran laughed harshly. "Doesn't sound like a rest cure. Why'd you pick
me for the job?"

The official opened a file drawer and riffled the cards. "You were
recommended by the Ministry of Transport. I confess that I was dubious,
because of your record. However, you were transferred from the
Mars-Jupiter sector for the one reason that you're not known here. Any
of our regular security agents or the ISP men would be recognized at
once. Our original idea was to place you aboard a rocket transport as
a crewman to spy out the weak links in our defensive measures. But a
matter of graver importance has come up. The assignments will overlap,
but we can no longer give you official backing."

"You'd better bring me up to date," Coran said bluntly.

"The pattern is usually the same. Barratry. Three of the Venus
transports have been deliberately wrecked and looted. Of plutonium,
for the most part. Members of this criminal group have infiltrated
the crew. Even trusted officers have been forced, by blackmail or
other methods, to aid the plotters. We can trust no one, not even the
captain."

"I see. What is this other matter you spoke about?"

"Two days ago we arrested a man. The charge was barratry. We had
no name, only a heliophoto from Venus. In his possession we found
documents relating to political matters of vital importance. Release of
the information contained in his portfolio would be disastrous at this
time. It could cause chaos, perhaps even war."

Coran grunted. "Such documents have no right to exist."

"I agree. Unfortunately, this one does exist. And it's no longer in
our custody. A woman, obviously an accomplice, got a blaster-gun to
him. Two ISP men were killed, and the prisoner escaped. The documents
went with him. I don't have to tell you that both of these fugitives
must be apprehended or killed. And those papers must be brought back or
destroyed. That's your job."

"I don't like it."

"Tact isn't your long suit, is it, Lieutenant? You weren't asked if you
liked it. With two black marks against your record, you can't afford
an opinion. One more and you're through as an officer in the space
patrol--"

"I don't like working out of uniform."

"--and I wouldn't count too much on a friendship with Paul Jomian, if I
were you, Coran. He's through here ... even if he was kicked upstairs
into the transport ministry. We no longer approve his methods. His
rough-shod, undisciplined methods may get by in a frontier civilization
like that of the outer planets, but nowadays we require efficiency and
complete co-operation in the ISP. The time is past when an ISP officer
can forget to change his uniform and go without shaving for days at a
time."

Coran's eyes glittered. "There was more to Paul Jomian than gold braid
and pretty uniforms. He was a man. And he got things done so a lot
of you pretty-boys could sit on your fat chairs and keep your hair
unmussed. For your information, those black marks on my record are for
tearing apart superior officers who made cracks about Paul Jomian. Do
you want me to turn in my badge?"

The official smiled poisonously. "That would be the easy way out for
you, Coran. What's the matter--the job too tough for you?"

"I can't stand the smell of perfume around here. And the jobs don't
come too tough. Relax, big shot. I'll run your stinking little errand
for you. But it's the last one. When I hand your two-vikdal bad man
over to you, I'm through. Make out my resignation that way, and I'll
sign it before I leave."

       *       *       *       *       *

The official laughed and stood up. "Resignation accepted--upon
completion of assignment. You're a hard case, Coran. Up to a point,
you're even right. But you don't belong any more, not in this part of
the universe. It took pioneers like you and Jomian to bang the holes in
our fishbowl world, but we need men with dull routine minds to bring
order into it. Unofficially, I'm sorry to see you go. Nowadays a man
conforms or he gets out."

"Skip the bouquets and the funeral oration. What's the layout on the
job you want done?"

The official threw a file card across the desk. "There's the man you
want. The picture won't help you much, since he'll probably be wearing
a plastic face-mask."

Coran glanced at it and shrugged. "Not much to go on. Any other leads?"

"Yes." The official glanced at his wrist-chron. "We know that he will
be on the Venus transport X-1143--the _Aphrodite_--which leaves in
three hours. Probably the woman, too. Whatever happens, they must not
reach Venus alive."

       *       *       *       *       *

Coran caught an implication in the words. "What do you mean 'Whatever
happens?'"

"The _Aphrodite_ is an emigrant ship. It's a government secret that
she's carrying plutonium for the power plants on Venus, but we're
afraid the information may have leaked out. You may as well know that
we're on the spot. It's too late to cancel the shipment without serious
economic repercussions. And we haven't found any way to protect the
passenger-carrying ships. Even if we armed them, which is against
Interplanetary Law, they're too slow to run and too unwieldy to
maneuver. Too much mass."

"What about convoy?"

"We tried that last time. The ship was disabled and driven off-orbit.
Then a group of fast cruisers of unusual design showed up. The space
patrol drove them off and gave chase. It was a trick, of course, to
decoy our ships into space, then the main body of pirates moved in and
cleaned out the ship."

Coran laughed. "When you're catching rabbits you have to be smarter
than the rabbits."

The official flushed. "We're handicapped by lack of ships and lack
of competent personnel. This is your chance to be smarter than the
rabbits. The man you want is obviously a member of the same group. If
there is trouble, he will try to contact his friends. It's up to you
to find him first, and if you fail that, to make sure that he does not
escape or turn over the documents to anyone else. We'll have an ISP
squadron following six hours behind the _Aphrodite_. If you need help,
get a signal to them--by helioflash, if you can. I suggest you find the
man first, and through him, locate the woman. From there on, you know
what to do...."

"It's a dirty job. Even with frosting, it's simple butchery--no trial,
no evidence. Now I know why the Martians consider an ISP man just a
hired thug."

"That's all he is. You have your orders and, whatever your private
opinions may be, I'm sure you'll agree that lives are unimportant when
we're playing for such stakes."

"Lives never are when politicians start dealing from the bottom of the
deck," Coran snarled bitterly.

The official shrugged. "I wouldn't know about that. I'm just a yes-man.
You can discuss it with Paul Jomian--your politician friend--when you
see him. He'll be on the _Aphrodite_."

"Have you figured out how I'm to get on the _Aphrodite_? If she's
an emigrant ship, they'll take only married couples. The altruistic
Company wants settlers to colonize Venus and build up their plague-spot
plantations for them."

"That's your problem. Marry someone if you have to, or hire a fake
wife. It's been done. Anything, just so you don't give away your
official position. Now get going. You've less than three hours till
take-off time."

Coran bent over the desk and signed his resignation with an elaborate
flourish, put an inked thumbprint beside the name, then stalked to the
door clothespinning his nose between thumb and forefinger. "That's time
enough to blow this stink off me," he said carelessly, wiping the inky
thumb on his uniform jacket.

The official laughed. "You're right. It does stink."

       *       *       *       *       *

Steve Coran was conscious of the girl merely as an obstacle between
him and the ticket window. She was young, expensively dressed and too
well-groomed, with blue-white hair, a haughty manner, and an icy stare
in her violet eyes.

"I was here first," she said coldly.

Coran bowed mockingly. "I don't like you either. Besides, I never hit
a lady in public. I hope this won't lead to one of those shipboard
romances."

The beehive activity of the ticket office slackened as take-off time
drew near. Coran studied her back as she stood ahead of him in the line
and repressed a desire to pinch her and find out if she were real. The
weasel-faced clerk was tired and his tone of long-suffering patience
had worn to a thread of annoyance.

"I've told you before, miss. I can't sell single tickets--the company
rules do not permit any but married couples aboard an emigrant
transport. We feel that unattached women are trouble makers in a
frontier society."

The girl made an arrogant gesture. "It's important. I must get to
Venus. I don't care what it costs."

"Don't tell me. See the manager. I don't make the rules. Third office
on the left. But you'd better hurry. I've only one double passage left."

Coran tapped the girl on her shoulder. She glared at him. "Take a tip
from me, babe. See the boss. If he's a man, you'll get the tickets."

As she left the line, he pushed to the window. "I'll take those two
tickets, bud."

"Do you have your marriage certificate?"

Coran reached through the window, snagged a coat lapel and had the man
dragged half through the window in a flash. "Now I'll talk, punk, and
you listen. Because I don't have a ring in my nose, don't get the idea
I'm not married. Do I get those tickets, or do you give up mirrors for
the next six weeks?"

The clerk looked at the gnarled fist under his nose and gave a wild nod
of his head. "You get them."

The steel fingers relaxed and the clerk slid back inside his cage.
"I'll report this," he stormed, shaking himself like a wet animal.
"You'd better have your papers when you try to get past the purser." He
handed out the tickets.

The girl followed Coran from the office. "I'll give you a thousand
vikdals for those tickets."

Coran grinned savagely. "Not even if you said please."

"Please, and two thousand."

"Stop it--you're getting near my price. Besides, they wouldn't do you
any good. You need a husband to go with 'em. Take the express rocket
next month. It's a shorter orbit and you'll only lose two weeks."

"You take it then. My business won't wait. Three thousand."

Coran whistled. "What's your problem?"

"None of your business."

"Have it your own way. My business won't wait either. Now, if you don't
mind, I'm in a hurry. I've less than two hours to find a honky-tonk and
get myself a bride. I don't suppose you'd know where the nearest dive
is. No, you wouldn't."

He turned away toward the elevators, but the girl clutched his arm
desperately. "Six thousand.... It's all I have."

Coran stared at her. "I'm sorry for you, but you'd have to kill me to
get these away. And I'm hard to kill. I'll make a deal though. I'll
sell you half of my double for three thousand. You'd have to marry me,
though."

"_Marry you!_" There was a word of loathing in her tone.

"It's been done. I'm on my way out now to look up a floozy. I'll even
marry her, if she's dope enough to want it that way. I don't like the
idea any better than you do, but I'd hock grandma's false teeth to get
to Venus. Forget I mentioned it. If I'm to be stuck with a dame for
four months, it might as well be a flamethrower as an icicle."

He buzzed for the elevator before she called after him. "I--I've
changed my mind." She was pale, with a look of suppressed fury about
her. "I guess I'd do even that."

Coran laughed wickedly. "Don't flatter yourself. You're just a ticket
to Venus to me. Meet me at the marriage bureau in half an hour. We
haven't much time, and you'll have to be psychographed. We really
should know each other. I'm Steve Coran."

"I'm Gerda Mors. In half an hour."

       *       *       *       *       *

The purser stopped at a door marked No. 200. He was a young,
inadequate-looking man.

"You won't have to carry me over the threshold," Gerda said crisply.
She went inside and shut the door. In shocked silence, he re-checked
the sheaf of papers in his hand.

"She's shy around strangers," Coran explained. "When do we take-off?"

"In five minutes. We're making these emigrant runs under very crowded
conditions. All passengers are expected to remain in their own
staterooms most of the time. A certain amount of exercise is permitted,
of course, once free flight is attained and the A-orbit corrections
made. Until then, we recommend that everyone remain out of the crew's
way. The safest place during acceleration is in bed."

Coran winked ponderously. "I'll make out all right. One thing, though.
I believe I have a friend on board. Am I permitted to examine the
passenger lists?"

"Of course, they're public property. See the captain. His office is up
near the bow, just aft of the control rooms. But wait till we're out in
space."

Coran knocked and entered the stateroom. Gerda was brushing her hair.
She glanced up irritably. "This is my room," she told him shortly.
"Find yourself another."

He laughed grimly. "The psychographs warned we were incompatible, but
you'd better get used to me. It's 146 days to Venus, and we've only
this stateroom between us. They practically lock us in, you know. We're
going to be very good friends or most uncomfortable before we reach
Venus."

Angry sparks shot from her violet eyes. "Did you know all this before?"

Coran nodded.

"You are a swine, aren't you? It won't do you any good. I'll tell the
captain we're not married. I'll say it was all a fake, the certificate
was a forgery, that you're a...."

"Go ahead. I wish for your sake it would help, but they'd only check
and find out it was genuine. Even if it weren't, you'd only be forced
to go through the ceremony again. The rules are very specific to cover
just such situations."

Fear and anger blended unpleasantly in her voice. "I'll think of
something...."

Warning alarms blared through the ship. Ripples of soundless shock
stirred the bulk.

"We're getting under way," Coran warned. "You'd better come to bed."

"I'd rather die," she said sullenly.

"Suit yourself. But it's pretty unpleasant."

       *       *       *       *       *

The rocket transport left its runway at an angle of 45 degrees,
slanting up into the Sahara night with a blossom of pink-white flame
flowering round its stern jets. A series of jarring vibrations smoothed
to a muffled burr. The girl was flung heavily to the floor and lay
there beside the porthole of fused quartz, retching feebly as the
acceleration built up. Outside the port, what seemed the flank of a
titanic mountain of moonlit sand fell rapidly astern. It tilted at an
incredible angle.

Coran hunched himself off the bed and crawled to her. Gerda grimaced
weakly and struck at him, then lapsed into unconsciousness. He picked
her up and carried her to the bed, dumped her like a limp sack and
clasped the straps about her. She did not rouse.

Her purse lay where she had dropped it. Coran went through it
methodically. A small blaster-gun of the type women thugs carry
in their handbags. It appeared to have been used recently. Four
Lumipencils. The usual cosmetics. A pillbox with a poison label. And,
in an ivory frame, a small colorphoto miniature of the man whose face
was on the Security Headquarters dossier card. Coran neutralized the
charge in the blaster and set it on safety, then carefully replaced
everything. He wished he had a pocket magnascope to study the miniature
in detail, but that could wait. He must check the passenger lists and
find out where Paul Jomian's room was located. Paul should be warned,
so that his surprise at seeing Coran would not give the show away.

The girl stirred and moaned feebly. Coran found the emergency
medical locker and forced an anti-acceleration capsule between her
tight-clenched teeth, following it with a water concentrate capsule.
She would be wildly thirsty when she came out of it, and real water
would have some unpleasant effects during A-shock. He leaned over and
checked the straps. They were tight enough so she would never get out
of that tie without help. Her eyes blinked open and she stared at him
in panic.

"Just relax," he cautioned. "And don't get impatient. I'll be right
back. Have to see a man about a...."

He went outside and made his way with difficulty up the bleak passage
forward. The distorted gravity made walking extremely difficult. Once
outside the main gravity field of Earth, artificial gravities would be
turned on. Until then, only an experienced spaceman could get around
safely. Coran was grateful for the rigorous training of the ISP.

A staccato bark of unintelligible verbal commands came through the
half-opened doorway of the control room ahead. The captain's office
should be somewhere about here. On Coran's right was a closed door
marked CAPTAIN. Coran knocked twice without receiving any answer,
then tried the door. It slid easily open. He stepped over the high
threshold. Lights were flaring and dying away as if the generators were
running unevenly. He peered about him, and at first the Spartan-like
accommodations seemed unoccupied. He wondered if he should sit down and
wait for the captain. A second look convinced him he would have a long
wait.

Sprawled forward, half across the desk, was the captain's body. The
upper part of his head had been blown away by a blaster-gun, evidently
fired at close quarters.

A cry behind him swung Coran around. In the frame of the opened doorway
stood the purser, mouth open, pointing at the dead man with a trembling
finger. Instinctively, Coran started for the door. The purser sprang
into action, leaped on Coran and caught him in a surprisingly strong
grip for so slight a man. Coran made no attempt to struggle. In a
moment the office was full of people. The burly first mate pulled the
purser away from Coran.

"What is all this, Hamlin?" the mate demanded.

Coran had taken time to study the identification files on all
the _Aphrodite's_ officers at headquarters before coming aboard.
He recognized the three officers instantly as Harriman, first
mate--Hamlin, the purser--and Nalson, the navigator or astronaut--but
was careful not to give himself away.

"I heard a sound in the captain's office, and when I came in to
investigate, I found him," Hamlin explained. "The captain's been
murdered."

Mate Harriman looked Coran up and down. "Where's the gun?" he asked.

"How should I know? I just came in a minute ago. He was like this when
I got here."

Harriman drove a fist into Coran's mouth. "Come now, you don't expect
us to believe a yarn like that. Where is that gun?"

Coran spat blood from his mangled lips. "I don't know anything about
it. The purser can tell you why I wanted to see the captain."

Hamlin spoke up. "I told him to wait till we were out in space," he
snapped. "He said he wanted to check the passenger list."

"I demand to see the first mate," Coran said.

The words seemed to recall Harriman to his duties. "I am the first
mate," he said. "I haven't time to bother with you now. I'll take care
of you later. Throw him in the cells till we get out in space. I'll
have to take over for the Old Man."

       *       *       *       *       *

Coran was hustled roughly to the lower part of the ship and flung into
the cramped quarters of the transport's brig. He settled back on the
bunk and tried to straighten things out in his mind.

"At least I got a room to myself," he mused grimly. This was going to
complicate things.

His wrist-chron had stopped, so he had no way of telling time, but they
fed him four times and he slept twice before they came for him. Two
crew men waited in the passage while Hamlin came in and sat down.

"You're in a bad spot, Coran. It's customary in cases of civilian
infractions of ship's rules to appoint an officer as counsel for their
defense. I'm yours. Sorry you got pushed around, but you were lucky
at that. Harriman's a pretty tough character. You'd have got worse if
Nalson and I hadn't been there. He's been disciplined for brutality
before now. They're giving you a hearing in the wardroom. I'd suggest
you co-operate with me by telling me anything that will help with your
case. I don't mind telling you your story's too weak to hold up. I'll
do all I can for you, but you'll have to help."

"What am I supposed to do?" Coran grunted.

"You might tell me the truth. We know the captain must have been killed
just as the ship took off. Otherwise, someone would have heard the
shot. If you could prove you were somewhere else at the time--"

"I was with my wife. She'll bear witness for me."

"It won't do, Coran. I should have told you that your wife is ill and
won't be able to testify. I found her myself, strapped to the bunk in
your cabin, Martian plague! I called the doctor who examined her, then
quarantined the cabin. We left concentrated food and water, warned her
not to leave, then locked and sealed the cabin. No one can see her."

Coran went cold with anger. "Someone must really be trying to foul me
up," he raged. "She couldn't have the plague--she's never been off the
earth."

"Your papers read that you just came from Mars," objected Hamlin.

"I did. We were married just before the ship left. If I were carrying
the plague, I'd have it myself. She couldn't have it--"

Hamlin laughed nervously. "I wish you could convince the doctor of
that. He's been taking blood tests of me ever since we left her. I'm
sorry for you, Coran, but she has it. I saw the grey rash myself. It's
horrible, horrible...."

Coran's mind worked like lightning. She had said she would think of
something. Something to keep the stateroom to herself. There might even
be a more sinister motive than that. After that picture of the man
he wanted in her purse, he could believe anything of her. Maybe she
even knew about him. She was faking, but how? How, since she had been
securely tied when he left her? Had he started his quest at the wrong
end? She must have been the woman accomplice who had got a gun through
the security police guarding the prisoner.

"What am I charged with?" he asked.

"Deliberate murder and plotting against the welfare of the ship. If the
officers agree on your guilt, you can be put to death immediately. They
put you through an airlock. The regulations have to be pretty stringent
on a space-ship."

Coran stood up. "Let's go up and get it over with," he said. "We'll see
about your regulations."

Manacled between the two brawny crewmen, a sullen Coran rode up in
the elevators. Outside the wardroom, the group stopped while Hamlin
knocked. "I wish you'd let me help you," he said in a final attempt.

Coran shook his head. "I know what I'm doing."

Hamlin shrugged. "I hope you do."

       *       *       *       *       *

The assembled officers stared at Coran curiously. His lip was still
bruised and swollen. He stared insolently at the group and tried to
thrust all other considerations out of his mind. The girl and his quest
would have to wait. His immediate hurdle was to get out of this mess.

Harriman wet his lips and opened the hearing.

"I won't waste words when we all know why we're here. There is no need
for formality in a hearing of this kind. The captain of the _Aphrodite_
was foully murdered, and this man who calls himself Stephen Coran was
found standing over his body. There was no gun in the room and none on
the prisoner. Coran's papers seem to be in order. They show him to be a
prospector from Mars, en route to Venus, but may be forgeries. That can
be checked. His wife is in quarantine, and will be unable to testify
one way or the other."

Coran broke in. "I demand to hear the formal charge against me."

"As acting captain of the _Aphrodite_, I officially charge you, Stephen
Coran, with the wilful murder of Captain Joseph Shalm, late master of
this ship. Also, since the murder must have taken place at the exact
moment of take-off, with the deliberate intent to delay and endanger
the safety of the ship and all the lives on board."

"Good. Now I make formal demand that my wife be called as witness to
the fact that I could not have been in the captain's office at the time
of take-off."

"You heard me say that your wife is in quarantine. She will not be able
to testify. If you have anything else to say in your defense, speak up."

"I make no defense. Since the court is so obviously prejudiced, I
will stand on my civilian rights as a technicality. This court has no
jurisdiction over me. The most you can do is to confine me to the area
of this ship until a charge can be brought against me in the admiralty
court on Venus. Also, under Security Law No. F 1720, since the one
witness I asked to have called in my defense has not been brought to
court, I demand that the whole proceedings be dropped as illegal,
unjustified, and prejudicial to civilian rights. Since I obviously
cannot escape from the ship, you cannot even require the customary bond
for reappearance."

Harriman's mouth dropped open. "Do you expect to get away with this?"

"More than that." Coran grimaced unpleasantly. "I wish to file charges
with the nearest official of the ministry of transport that I was
mishandled and held under restraint without formal charges being
brought against me. If there is such an official on board, I demand to
see him."

Nalson, the astronaut, hid a smile behind his sleeve, then leaned
forward and whispered earnestly to Harriman. Harriman nodded, then
turned to consult with the ship's doctor.

"Is this your doing, Hamlin?" the acting captain rasped sourly.

The purser shifted uneasily. "No, sir. But, since the prisoner chooses
this defense, I have no choice but to repeat his demands, officially.
There is an official aboard, Paul Jomian of the transport ministry. I
suggest you send for him and turn this hearing over to him. He will
have whatever authority is necessary to deal with it."

In momentary desperation, Harriman glanced round the room at the circle
of faces and saw that Coran had him over a barrel. The hard-faced
navigator, Nalson, spoke up. "Better send for Jomian. In theory,
we have the right of assessing the death penalty, but in practice,
it's not so simple. The admiralty will review the case and, if your
foot slips on some technicality, you might even have to face the
disintegrators yourself."

Harriman gave in and sent for Jomian.

       *       *       *       *       *

A red bulb flashed and the buzzer sounded, then Paul Jomian stepped
into the wardroom. He was a lean man, greying into his late fifties,
with the bleakness of outer space in his eyes and a face badly scarred
by spaceburns. His eyes stared as they fell upon the manacled figure of
Coran standing in the center of the harsh-lit stage. Steve Coran stared
back at him with insolently expressionless face.

The difficulty was rapidly explained by Captain Harriman in a
monotonously leveled tone of repressed fury. Jomian studied the
prisoner with politely casual interest while the harangue went on. When
Harriman finished, the transport official considered briefly before
giving his verdict.

"Well, gentlemen, much as I sympathize with your feelings in this
matter, I'm afraid the prisoner is within his rights. Even if the
circumstances are somewhat unusual, we have no choice but to release
him. However, in view of the possible menace involved to the safety of
the ship, I recommend that he be under constant surveillance by some
competent and responsible officer, preferably the one appointed for his
defense, who will see to it that he has no opportunity to perpetrate
further violence. Once Venus is reached the man can be turned over to
the proper authorities."

Coran broke in roughly. "Does all this monkey talk mean I'm free?"

Harriman was maliciously official. "I'm afraid it does. But don't try
anything funny. Hamlin, Nalson, I'm detailing you two to watch over
Coran in shifts. Don't let him out of your sight, day or night. If
he attempts to steal a lifeboat and escape, or makes the slightest
untoward move to hinder the operation of the ship or molest anyone on
board, shoot him--that's all. Since he has no room, he will share yours
for the remainder of the voyage."

Hamlin got a key and released Coran from his manacles.

Jomian glanced at him with an odd expression. "If you don't mind,
Coran, I'd like a word with you in private. If the captain has no
objection."

Harriman was curious, but nodded. "Are you sure you'll be safe with
him?"

Jomian smiled. "That's my worry. Send your men to my cabin in an hour.
After twelve years in the Space Patrol, I'm used to handling bad boys."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nine days out the _Aphrodite_ ran into trouble.

Proximity alarms blared wildly. It was only a small asteroid, not more
than a quarter of a mile in diameter, just a jagged piece of rock and
fused metal. But it came out of a direct line with the sun, moving
fast, and discipline had been dangerously lax on the _Aphrodite_ after
Harriman took over command.

At 9:05 ship time, there came the sound of a rending crash up forward,
followed by a nauseating sense of shock and withering waves of motion
energy transformed into heat. Fortunately, the collision was a glancing
one, but enough. The _Aphrodite_ was a shattered wreck. Her bow and
the control room were carried away bodily, and only the spacetight
bulkheads of the waist saved the passengers and crew from instant death.

At 9:20, feeling far off course, leaking air dangerously from sprung
seams, the doomed transport and the asteroid circled each other like
wary wrestlers awaiting an opening. Sooner or later, as the initial
force of the spin died down, they would crash together in flaming
holocaust. In the meantime, everything that could be done was being
done.

Orders went out to abandon ship. Of the original complement of four
hundred and eighty passengers and crew, nineteen were dead or missing,
and eighty others more or less seriously injured. The heaviest
casualties were among the rocket crew and officers, some of whom were
fatally burned by premature atomic discharge. Rocket jets were set
roaring at full capacity in a vain effort to break the wreck away
from the deadly vicinity of the circling asteroid. Surviving crew
members labored heroically to load and launch the lifeboats from three
airlocks, two of which were so badly jammed as to be almost unworkable.

The forward compartments were a scene from inferno. Coran, who had been
with Nalson in the chartroom when the crash occurred, picked himself
out of the jumble of broken lockers and scattered metal-leaf charts
and crawled through the glare and heat to a pitiable huddle of pulped
flesh pinned beneath the wreckage of a berylium table. Nalson's skull
was fractured, blood pulsed from his ears, and he was gasping out his
life as Coran pried the table off him. His eyes seemed bursting from
his head.

"No excuse for wreck," he got out. "I'm ... Security Police. Sent me in
case you fumbled. Watch Harriman ... Hamlin."

A spurt of blood from his mouth and nose stopped his words. The
navigator spat savagely. "Think ... Hamlin's ... the man you want." His
lips moved weakly, then hung open as he died.

       *       *       *       *       *

Using a leg of the ruined table as a wrecking bar, Coran pried open the
door and got into the passageway. A blast of sickening heat rushed to
meet him. Forward was a lurid glare of white hot metal, and he could
hear air shrieking through the leaks where seams had started. He fought
his way aft to a bank of elevators, but they were hopelessly jammed.

Descending the spiral stairway, he encountered Paul Jomian.

"I thought you were gone," Jomian said. "The entire forward part of the
ship seems to be carried away."

"It is. I'm hard to kill. Nalson's dead. And so are the men in the
control room."

A kind of exhilaration moved in Coran. The endless waiting and
watching, under constant surveillance, had gotten on his nerves. He
was not used to intrigue. Now that a need for his kind of action had
arisen, he felt better already.

Jomian's left arm had compound fractures above and below the elbow.
It hung useless at his side, with splinters of bone thrusting through
mangled skin and flesh. Coran broke open a locker and gave him
emergency first aid, binding the limb with metal splints.

"That'll hold it till you can get it cared for. You'd better get to the
lifeboats. I'm going to find my wife. As I told you, she may be in this
racket, but I can't be sure. In any case, she's my responsibility."

"Can't I help?" Jomian asked.

"Not now. If I make it, we'll discuss it there. If not, you can take
a message for me. There's an ISP squadron six hours behind us. Get a
helioflash to them. Tell them to come a-running. I've an idea they'll
find something interesting."

"I'll get word to them," Jomian promised. "Take care of yourself, boy."

The door of stateroom No. 200 was still locked and sealed. Coran opened
a locker and got out a wrench to work off the lugs on the lock. A voice
from behind jarred him.

"I've been looking for you," Hamlin sneered. "I thought you'd be up
to something." In the dimming and flaring light, Coran got a glimpse
of the blaster-gun in Hamlin's hand. Coran's fingers tightened on the
wrench. He spun around and hurled the wrench in one motion. Hamlin
pressed the trigger, but the wrench spoiled his aim. Coran dodged under
the gun and dragged him down in a flying tackle. The gun went rattling
down the corridor.

"Come away from there, you fool," Hamlin screamed as he broke away.
"D'you want the plague?" He edged toward the gun, but Coran cut him
off. Both lunged for it. Coran got it, but before he could use it,
Hamlin kicked him in the stomach. He rolled on the floor in agony.
Hamlin kicked again viciously. Coran fumbled with the gun.

A warning alarm sounded. The boats were about to leave.

Coran got his breath back. "Help me get her out. She has no more plague
than you have. Besides, she's your--"

"You're mad," Hamlin shrieked. "They'd never let her into the boats.
I won't risk the lives of innocent people on your sayso." He leaned
across Coran to snatch at the gun. Coran clawed at his face and layers
of plastic came off in his fingers. Hamlin screamed as the stuff came
loose from his flesh. Then he turned and ran.

He darted up the companion stairs. By the time Coran could reach the
gun, it was too late. The man had vanished to the upper deck.

Coran got to his knees and aimed the blaster at the jammed lock on the
stateroom door. The mechanism and half the door disappeared in ravening
violence. The shock knocked Coran flat.

Gerda stepped through the shattered doorway.

"What's going on?" she wailed hysterically. It was apparent that she
had been crying, although she had tried to efface the marks.

"Never mind that. We've got to get you out of here. Are you all right?"

She laughed wildly. "Of course I am! Has everyone gone crazy? You look
a fright. D'you want to carry me, or should I carry you?"

"Get to the lower decks. Find the doctor. Show him you're not sick.
And hurry--the lifeboats are leaving." Coran made a vague gesture and
slumped weakly against the wall while spirals of nausea raged through
him. She was halfway to the companion stair before she noticed that he
was not following. Coran had fainted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cold water splashing in his face revived him. His head was nestled in
her lap.

"What are you doing here?" he raged. "If you don't hurry, it will be
too late."

She answered with quiet assurance. "Listen, tough guy, you didn't have
to come back for me. D'you think I'd leave you to save my skin after
that?"

Coran shook his head to clear the mist of dizzy weakness, and she
helped him to his feet.

"Let's get going," he urged. "If the lifeboats leave before we reach
the airlock, you'll really be in a jam."

With the girl's arm tight around his waist to support him, he managed
to make it to the sally-port. The airlock door was closed.

"The boats have gone," he said. He sat down hopelessly on a casket-like
metal toolbox.

"Maybe someone will come," she said.

"That's what I'm afraid of," he snapped.

"In the meantime, I think we need some coffee ... if I can find an
unopened can."

Coran waved toward a locker where supplies were kept on clipshelves.
She found a can with built-in heat unit and opened it, pouring coffee
for them. He sipped his slowly, while she gulped down a scalding draft.

"You seem very calm about all this," Coran said grimly.

"Hysterics won't help. Besides, you seem to be expecting someone. What
did you mean, that's what you're afraid of? Who would come back?"

"Don't you know?"

She shook her head in bewilderment "How should I know? I'm a stranger
here myself."

"You may as well stop playing innocent. In case you don't already know,
I'm an officer in the space patrol. This wreck was deliberate, planned
by some of the crew. There are two possibilities. Either they'll come
back and try to salvage the plutonium cargo, or they have confederates
waiting in space to close in as soon as the ship is abandoned. I don't
look forward to either one."

"You act as if I knew something about all this," Gerda said irritably.
"I don't know why you should think so, but you're way off the track.
Why suspect me?"

"How can I help it, with that picture in your purse, and that phoney
deal you pulled by playing sick?"

Gerda flushed, whether from anger or guilt Coran would have given much
to know.

"I don't know how you know about that," she answered evenly. "I--I
can't explain about the picture, but the other I had nothing to do
with. While you had me tied up, someone came into the room; naturally
I thought it was you coming back. I was still dazed from shock and
only half awake. First thing I knew, a man in uniform had jammed a
pillow over my face. I thought he was trying to kill me, and nearly
smothered. He rubbed something on my elbows and down the cords of my
neck, then left. It seemed like a nightmare. I blamed you vaguely till
I remembered the gold braid on his sleeves and knew it must have been
a ship's officer. Later, an officer came in with the doctor, who took
one look at me and seemed scared to death. Too scared to examine me.
They wouldn't listen to anything, just untied me enough so I could work
loose eventually, left some stuff, and locked me in. That's all I knew
till you let me out just now."

       *       *       *       *       *

Coran considered. "It sounds plausible. I'd like to believe you, but
that photograph is too damning. You'll have a lot of explaining to
do ... if we get out of this alive."

"What about the photograph? What's he wanted for?"

"There's another one of him in the Security Police headquarters. He's
the man I was sent to get. Both ISP and the Security Police want him.
The original charge was barratry, but--"

"What's barratry?" she asked.

"It's the deliberate wrecking of a ship, for the insurance or to
salvage the cargo illegally. I don't know what your connection is with
this man, but--"

"It's very simple," she said. "He's my brother. I knew he was in
trouble, but didn't know it was so serious. Our family broke up years
ago. Mother married again. That was fifteen years ago. I was ten, and
Ken was thirteen. We took our stepfather's name, but Ken and he never
got along very well. Ken ran away to Venus when he was seventeen.
Mother died a year ago. I--I wanted to find Ken and help him. My
stepfather had him traced for me and we found out he was in trouble
with the police. I thought if I could talk to him, maybe he'd give
himself up, take his just punishment, and we could start over again
together. Ken's all I have left. He's not bad. A little wild, but not
bad."

Coran stood up and stared into the black gulf of space through the
visiplate. He felt a sudden bleak distaste for his profession.

"I'm afraid it's a little late for that," he said gently. "He's wanted
for barratry, murder, and perhaps treason. The penalty for any one of
them is death. I'm sorry."

Gerda sat silently, brooding over the information. "You think I'm going
to cry, don't you? And you hate emotional women. You can relax. I think
I've known all along that it was hopeless. It does hurt, but I'm beyond
crying any more."

       *       *       *       *       *

Far out in the void a clustered blur of faint, needle-sharp lights
etched itself against the star-patterned darkness. Space-ships, coming
up fast under rocket power. Coran glanced quickly at the wall-chron. It
was too soon for the space patrol. Even under full acceleration, they
could not make it in less than three hours.

"I'll have to trust you," he said grimly, "Brace yourself--company's
coming."

Gerda snapped out of her black reverie.

"What are you going to do?"

"We'd better work out a plan of action." Working like mad, Coran dumped
the contents of the metal toolbox onto the floor. With a wrench, he
smashed the hand-operated controls which worked the airlock from the
interior of the ship into a tangle of twisted machinery. Then he
scooped up the rest of the tools and threw them down a waste disposal
chute.

"Get inside the toolbox," he ordered. "Try it once to make sure you
can raise the lid from inside. Then keep out of sight. When they get
here, I'll try to draw them away into the after part of the ship. If
I succeed in drawing them off, you slip out and get into the airlock.
Close the door and lock it from inside. If I manage to circle around
and get back here, I'll signal you with three soft taps on the door,
followed by three hard ones. Don't open for anyone else. It'll take
them over an hour to cut through that door from in here. You'll have a
gambler's chance."

"Good luck," said Gerda softly. She climbed into the toolbox while
Coran recharged the blaster-gun and stuffed his pockets with extra
ammunition.

Gerda raised the box lid slightly. "It works, Steve," she said. "Take
care of yourself."

He grinned. "One thing more. When you're into the airlock, get into a
space-suit and get one ready for me. They're on racks at the left side,
inside a locker."

She nodded. The lid slammed down.

Coran re-arranged the stowage of boxes in the next compartment into a
series of defensive barricades, then crouched beside the half-opened
door of the sally-port. He had not long to wait.

The airlock door swung open and three rough-looking men in space suits
came cautiously through. They were followed by a dozen others not
wearing the heavily-insulated space armor. The pirates must have run a
gangway tube between the ships and fastened it with magnetic grapnels.
The outer doors of the airlock would open automatically as the pressure
equalized. He wondered if Gerda would have sense enough to close and
bolt the outer as well as the inward doors. It was too late to worry
about that now.

Coran took careful aim and fired his blaster beam into the crowd of
men. Four were killed by the first discharge. The others broke for
cover. Blaster beams interlaced, and the room jarred with repeated
concussion. Men poured through the opened airlock door. The temperature
rose sharply with the release of energy. The pirates rushed the door
and Coran was forced to fall back to his line of barricades.

He retreated cautiously, firing as he went. From behind the last of his
barricades, he burned down three of his foes, then broke and ran for
the engine-room shaft, leaping across it to the spiralled stair. Just
as he reached the upper loft of engines a beam cut down the shaft. He
dodged behind a massive generator, but three blaster beams concentrated
on it. The force of their tripled discharge tore it from its moorings.
Artificial gravity combined with its mass to send it crashing into a
tangle of the intricate machinery below.

To avoid being crushed, Coran was forced to plunge down the second
shaft. He lost himself in the spiderweb of inner support beams. The
pirates scattered and climbed into the maze of beams, probing with
their blaster rays as shadows moved uneasily in the eerie darkness. The
lumibulbs waxed and waned as the unsteady current fluctuated.

       *       *       *       *       *

Further and further Coran led them, always away from the sally-port and
the airlock, darting chance beams at his pursuers whenever opportunity
presented. He had the advantage of knowing that they were all enemies.
Their forces were divided and confused. In the weird and uncomfortable
lofts of the engine-room, clear targets were impossible.

A wild half-plan occurred to Coran. He headed in the direction of the
main engine-room switch box and with his beam burned out all the fuses.

Pit-like darkness enveloped the lofts as the lumibulbs went out. It
was touch and go sliding down the long beams in the pall of utter
blackness. He reached a catwalk, and cautiously made his way toward the
elevators. Once he collided with a heavy body and a man swore savagely.

He missed the elevators, but by some miracle found a hatchway leading
to the cargo holds. Sliding through, he cut down the intensity of his
blaster beam and melted the plastic and metal hatchcover into a fused
mass. That should delay them a few minutes. He scuttled down a deserted
passageway and began climbing flights of stairs. If he could only find
his way back to the sally-port from this other direction. He came
suddenly into the room of his hasty barricades next to the sally-port.
It was occupied.

Two men had been left behind as guards. He caught them unawares, and
burned both down with one sweep of his beam.

The sally-port was empty. The box lid lay on the floor and the airlock
door was closed tight.

With the butt of his blaster, he tapped out the signal on the airlock
door.

There was a smooth hiss of releasing metal parts and the airlock door
came open. He slipped through and slammed the door, spinning the
lockbolts tight.

"Thank heavens, you made it," Gerda said. Pale and shaken, she handed
him the heavy space-armor. "I was afraid you'd run into those others in
the next room. They almost caught me. I had the lid half-raised when
they came into the sally-port to check."

"Put on your helmet," he ordered roughly, as she handed him the
fishbowl-like contrivance.

She laughed. "The air's bad in here. I could hardly breathe, and I
didn't know how to work the valves in the helmet."

Coran swore briefly, then adjusted her helmet and put on his own. He
set the microphones and the space communicators.

"I shut the outside door," she complained. "I even bolted it, but it
won't stay locked."

"It's automatic," he told her. "When the air pressure's equal on both
sides, it opens. I'll show you."

Just as he reached for the controls, the door came open with a violent
crash. Hamlin stood framed in the doorway, blaster gun in hand.

"I hadn't counted on you, Coran," he said. The gun did not waver.
"Don't reach for that gun."

       *       *       *       *       *

Coran relaxed and stared at his opponent. "You look quite different
without the plastic mask," he observed. Hamlin was older than he had
looked in the photographs, but noticeably the same man, despite lines
of strain which did not show in either picture.

Hamlin smiled wolfishly. "My pictures don't flatter me, do they? The
problem is what you've done with my men. You are becoming a nuisance,
Coran. I'll have to kill you, of course, but I'd like to know how you
managed this switch."

Coran was playing for time. "I'll make a deal with you," he said. "I'm
curious to know why you pulled that Martian plague stunt with Gerda."

Hamlin laughed. "I recognized her at once, even though she had changed
since I last saw her. Ten years is a long time when you're kids, but
I'd seen a picture of her since then. When I saw you with her, I knew
you were up to something. I wanted to keep you away from her till
I could deal with you. The rest was easy, just a little grease and
aluminum powder. The doctor was scared to death...."

Gerda was staring at her brother through the space helmet. "You did
know me, Ken?"

Hamlin shot her a contemptuous glance. "You little fool," he snapped.
"You should never have come here. I don't know what I'm going to do
with you."

Gerda cringed as if he had struck her. "We'll have plenty of time for
old home week later," Hamlin went on. "Now tell me what's happened to
my men, Coran. I haven't much time to waste on you."

Coran bit his lip. "I just lured them into the engine-room and tangled
them up in the lofts, then blew out the lights. It was a good trick
while it worked. Some of them got weeded out on the way."

"Now it's your turn, Coran," Hamlin said brutally. His finger tightened
on the trigger. Gerda stood looking from one to the other with a look
of anguish on her face. "Don't do it, Ken," she said, moving in front
of Coran.

"Stay out of this, Gerda," Coran warned.

"I'm not kidding," Hamlin said, "if you get in my way, I'll kill both
of you."

Coran struck her helmet so heavily she fell against the wall. In the
same movement, he lunged at Hamlin. The blaster beam raked the ceiling,
and in that confined space concussion was unbearable, even inside the
space suits. Coran's blow knocked Hamlin through the doorway into the
connecting tube. Coran swung about and caught up his gun.

[Illustration: _Coran struck her aside and lunged at Hamlin._]

"Don't shoot, Steve," Gerda wailed.

The shock of the first blaster discharge had loosened the magnetic
grapnels which held the ships together. The pirate's craft began to
drift away, tearing loose the end of the tube.

Hamlin was on his feet, trying to fire his blaster, but the charge was
burned out. It only flickered feebly. He leaped the widening distance
between the ships and went up the side like a spider, gripping the
shell of the _Erania_ with the magnetic soles of his space-boots. Coran
climbed round the doorway and went up after him, gun in hand.

Hamlin had disappeared round the curve of the hull. It was rough,
dangerous work climbing round the outer shell of a space-ship. One slip
meant a plunge into the awesome emptiness of the void. Gravity was
practically non-existent, but the grip of the soles was slight, and
only one foot could be moved at a time.

From the vantage point of his cover behind a dead rocket tube, Hamlin
waited. He knew that his time was short. Off across the black gulf of
space three flakes of gleaming light resolved themselves into fast
patrol cruisers, racing toward the derelict _Erania_. Coran had not
seen them, but came on steadily, determined to see his assignment
through. Hamlin waited, gun resting on the rocket tube, hoping for a
clear shot. Mad with hatred, he blamed Coran for the failure of his
whole life, and was viciously resolved to take his enemy with him.

The patrol ships moved in close and warped alongside the _Aphrodite_.
Men in space suits poured out of the access hatch and guns were trained
on the rocket tube behind which Hamlin held out.

Sick fury possessed Hamlin. With the gesture of a trapped rat, he
rammed his blaster-gun up the vents of the rocket tube. If he could
ignite the remaining fuel, they would all blow to Kingdom Come in a
roaring atomic holocaust.

Coran saw his intent and stood up to fire. His beam went wildly into
the darkness as he lost his balance and toppled into space. Another
beam whipped out from the patrol cruiser and caught Hamlin full force
as he stood up to fire into the tube.

He vanished in a glittering cloud of particles, dispersed instantly by
their own radiation.

Lines with magnetic grapnels looped out and snatched Coran reeling him
back to the patrol ship like a grotesque fish. For three days, he lay
unconscious from space-shock....

       *       *       *       *       *

Back on the Moon, at Luna Station, three people were waiting for the
Martian Express to take-off.

"You see, Steve, Gerda's really my daughter," Paul Jomian explained.
"Her mother divorced me fifteen years ago, and a year later married
Gartan Mors. She took the children, of course, and Mors raised them as
his own. Gerda was young enough to conform but Ken was always wild. He
took it for three or four years, then ran away to Venus. Gerda always
idolized him, but really she scarcely knew him. If anyone's at fault in
all this, I am the one to blame. I was a stubborn fool, and Nell could
never stand my job."

Gerda offered her hand to Coran. "I hate long goodbyes," she said. "I'm
sorry about everything. I--I don't really blame you for Ken's death.
Goodbye, and good luck."

Steve decided it was safe to play out a fond and corny farewell. He
took her hand lingeringly. "Don't worry about things, Gerda. I know
how you feel. It wouldn't have worked out anyhow. Just let me know
when you get the divorce. Let's break this up. I thought that I hated
Mars-station, but now that I'm through with the Space Patrol, I can't
wait to get back."

Paul Jomian put his arm around his daughter as they watched Coran turn
and wave before climbing aboard the express cruiser. On Coran's face
was the smug complacency of a man who has neatly avoided being stuck
with a dame. He grinned and vanished up the gangplank. Jomian muttered
something inaudibly.

"You're a sucker to let a man like Steve get away ... for any reason,"
he told her. "Such men are hard to find, and still harder to hook once
you've found them."

"I know it," she said firmly, though tears brimmed in her eyes. "But I
just couldn't love the man who'd killed my brother. I couldn't."

"That's the biggest mistake you ever made. Steve didn't want me to
tell you, but he didn't shoot Ken. His beam went wild." Jomian nerved
himself for an ordeal. "I killed him."

"Why didn't you tell me--_why_?" she wailed.

"I should have told you before, but I couldn't. I didn't want you to
hate me, now that I'd just found you."

Gerda clung to her father fiercely. "I couldn't hate you, dad. But we
mustn't let him go. I might have a chance to win him, but how can I if
he's on Mars and I'm here?"

"I'm afraid that's out of our hands. Steve doesn't know it, but he's
not through with the space patrol. They refused his resignation. He's
just been appointed commander of the Mars-Jupiter sector. Do you think
you have the guts to be a spaceman's wife?"

"I _know_ I have. But how'll I ever convince Steve? You heard him. He
said it wouldn't ever work out."

"That's your problem. He's a stubborn man."

Sudden determination shone in her face. "And I'm a stubborn woman," she
called back, blowing her father a kiss. She reached the gangplank just
in time to grab it and be dragged up with it.

Jomian grinned. "She's my kid. I'll bet she trims his wings, the rat."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK S.O.S. APHRODITE! ***

***** This file should be named 63856-0.txt or 63856-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/8/5/63856/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

