The Project Gutenberg EBook of Signal Red, by Henry Guth

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Signal Red

Author: Henry Guth

Release Date: November 23, 2020 [EBook #63860]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SIGNAL RED ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                              SIGNAL RED

                             By HENRY GUTH

             They tried to stop him. Earth Flight 21 was a
              suicide run, a coffin ship, they told him.
            Uranian death lay athwart the space lanes. But
              Shano already knew this was his last ride.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1949.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Mercurian night settled black and thick over the Q City Spaceport.
Tentative fingers of light flicked and probed the sky, and winked out.

"Here she comes," somebody in the line ahead said.

Shano coughed, his whole skeletal body jerking. Arthritic joints sent
flashes of pain along his limbs. Here she comes, he thought, feeling
neither glad nor sad.

He coughed and slipped polarized goggles over his eyes.

The spaceport emerged bathed in infra red. Hangars, cradles, freighter
catapults and long runways stood out in sharp, diamond-clear detail.
High up, beyond the cone of illumination, a detached triple row of
bright specks--portholes of the liner _Stardust_--sank slowly down.

There was no eagerness in him. Only a tiredness. A relief. Relief from
a lifetime of beating around the planets. A life of digging, lifting,
lugging and pounding. Like a work-worn Martian camel, he was going home
to die.

As though on oiled pistons the ship sank into the light, its long
shark-like hull glowing soft and silvery, and settled with a feathery
snuggle into the cradle's ribs.

The passenger line quivered as a loud-speaker boomed:

"_Stardust, now arrived at Cradle Six! Stardust, Cradle Six! All
passengers for Venus and Earth prepare to board in ten minutes._"

Shano coughed, and wiped phlegm from his thin lips, his hand following
around the bony contours of his face, feeling the hollows and the beard
stubble and loose skin of his neck. He coughed and thought of the
vanium mines of Pluto, and his gum-clogged lungs. A vague, pressing
desire for home overwhelmed him. It had been so long.

"_Attention! Attention, Stardust passengers! The signal is red. The
signal is red. Refunds now being made. Refunds now. Take-off in five
minutes._"

The man ahead swore and flicked up an arm. "Red," he groaned. "By the
infinite galaxies, this is the last straw!" He charged away, knocking
Shano aside as he passed.

_Red signal._ In bewildered anxiety Shano lifted the goggles from his
eyes and stared into the sudden blackness. The red signal. Danger out
there. Passengers advised to ground themselves, or travel at their own
risk.

He felt the passengers bump and fumble past him, grumbling vexatiously.

A hot dread assailed him, and he coughed, plucking at his chest.
Plucking at an urgency there.

Dropping the goggles to his rheumy eyes, he saw that the passenger line
had dissolved. He moved, shuffling, to the gate, thrust his ticket into
the scanner slot, and pushed through the turnstile when it clicked.

"_Flight twenty-one, now arriving from Venus_," the loud-speaker said
monotonously. Shano glanced briefly upward and saw the gleaming belly
of twenty-one sinking into the spaceport cone of light.

He clawed his way up the gangway and thrust out his ticket to the
lieutenant standing alone at the air lock. The lieutenant, a sullen,
chunky man with a queer nick in his jawbone, refused the ticket.
"Haven't you heard, mister? Red signal. Go on back."

Shano coughed, and peered through the lenses of his goggles. "Please,"
he said. "Want to go home. I've a right." The nicked jaw stirred faint
memories within his glazed mind.

The lieutenant punched his ticket. "It's your funeral, old man."

The loud-speaker blared. "_Stardust, taking off in thirty seconds. The
signal is red. Stardust, taking--_"

With the words dinning in his ears, Shano stepped into the air lock.
The officer followed, spun wheels, and the lock closed. The outside was
shut off.

Lifting goggles they entered the hull, through a series of two more
locks, closing each behind them.

"We're afloat," the officer said. "We've taken off." A fleck of light
danced far back in his eye. Shano felt the pressure of acceleration
gradually increasing, increasing, and hurried in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Menthlo, a silver-mustached Jupiterian, broad, huge, yet
crushable as a beetle, talked while his hands manipulated a panel of
studs in the control room. The pilot, his back encased in leather, sat
in a bucket seat before him, listening into earphones.

"Surprised to learn of a passenger aboard," the captain said, glancing
briefly sideways. "You're entitled to know of the danger ahead." He
flicked a final stud, spoke to the pilot and at last turned a serious,
squared face to Shano. "Old man," he said. "There's a Uranian fleet out
there. We don't know how many ships in this sector. Flight twenty-one,
which just landed, had a skirmish with one, and got away. We may not be
so lucky. You know how these Uranian devils are."

Shano coughed, and wiped his mouth. "Dirty devils," he said. "I was
driv' off the planet once, before this war started. I know things
about them Uranian devils. Heard them in the mines around. Hears
things, a laborer does."

The captain seemed for the first time to realize the social status of
his lone passenger, and he became a little gruff.

"Want you to sign this waiver, saying you're traveling at your own
risk. We'll expect you to keep to your cabin as much as possible.
When the trouble comes we can't bother with a passenger. In a few
hours we'll shut down the ship entirely, and every mechanical device
aboard, to try to avoid detection." His mustaches rose like two spears
from each side of his squared nose as his face changed to an alert
watchfulness. "Going home, eh?" he said. "You've knocked around some,
by the looks of you. Pluto, from the sound of that cough."

Shano scrawled his signature on the waiver. "Yeah," he said. "Pluto.
Where a man's lungs fights gas." He blinked watery eyes. "Captain,
what's a notched jaw mean to you?"

"Well, old man," the captain grasped Shano's shoulder and turned him
around. "It means somebody cut himself, shaving. You stick tight to
your cabin." He nodded curtly and indicated the door.

Descending the companionway to the next deck Shano observed the
nick-jawed lieutenant staring out the viewport, apparently idling. The
man turned and gripped Shano's thin arm.

"A light?" he said, tapping a cigarette. Shano produced a lighter
disk and the chunky man puffed. He was an Earthman and his jaw seemed
cut with a knife, notched like a piece of wood. Across the breast of
his tunic was a purple band, with the name _Rourke_. "Why are you so
anxious to get aboard, old man?" He searched Shano's face. "There's
trouble ahead, you know."

Shano coughed, wracking his body, as forgotten memories stirred
sluggishly in his mind. "Yup," he said, and jerked free and stumbled
down the steel deck.

In his cabin he lay on the bunk, lighted a cigarette and smoked,
coughing and staring at the rivet-studded bulkhead. The slow movement
of his mind resolved into a struggle, one idea groping for the other.

What were the things he'd heard about nicked jaws? And where had
he heard them? Digging ore on Pluto; talk in the pits? Secretive
suspicions voiced in smoke-laden saloons of Mars? In the labor gangs of
Uranus? Where? Shano smoked and didn't know. But he knew there was a
rumor, and that it was the talk of ignorant men. The captain had evaded
it. Shano smoked and coughed and stared at the steel bulkhead and
waited.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship's alarm clanged. Shano jerked from his bunk like a broken
watch spring. He crouched, trembling, on arthritic joints, as a
loud-speaker blared throughout the ship.

"_All hands! We now maintain dead silence. Close down and stop all
machinery. Power off and lights out. An enemy fleet is out there,
listening and watching for mechanical and electronic disturbance.
Atmosphere will be maintained from emergency oxygen cylinders. Stop
pumps._"

Shano crouched and listened as the ship's steady drone ceased and the
vibrations ceased. The pumps stopped, the lights went out.

Pressing the cold steel bulkhead, Shano heard oxygen hiss through the
pipes. Hiss and hiss and then flow soundlessly, filling the cabin and
his lungs. He choked.

The cabin was like a mine shaft, dark and cold. Feet pounded on the
deck outside.

Shano clawed open the door. He peered out anxiously.

Cold blobs of light, phosphorescent bulbs held in the fists of men,
glimmered by. Phosphorescent bulbs, because the power was off. Shano
blinked. He saw officers and men, their faces tight and pinched,
hurrying in all directions. Hurrying to shut down the ship.

He acted impulsively. A young ensign strode by, drawn blaster in hand.
Shano followed him; followed the bluish glow of his bulb, through
labyrinthine passages and down a companionway, coughing and leering
against the pain in his joints. The blue light winked out in the
distance and Shano stopped.

He was suddenly alarmed. The captain had warned him to stay in his
cabin. He looked back and forth, wondering how to return.

A bell clanged.

Shano saw a cold bulb glowing down the passageway, and he shuffled
hopefully toward it. The bulb moved away. He saw an indistinct figure
disappear through a door marked, ENGINE ROOM.

Shano paused uncertainly at the end of the passageway. A thick cluster
of vertical pipes filled the corner. He peered at the pipes and saw a
gray box snuggled behind them. It had two toggle switches and a radium
dial that quivered delicately.

Shano scratched his scalp as boots pounded on the decks, above
and below. He listened attentively to the ship's familiar noises
diminishing one by one. And finally even the pounding of feet died out;
everything became still. The silence shrieked in his ears.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship coasted. Shano could sense it coasting. He couldn't feel it
or hear it, but he knew it was sliding ghost-like through space like a
submarine dead under water, slipping quietly past a listening enemy.

The ship's speaker rasped softly. "_Emergency. Battle posts._"

The captain's voice. Calm, brief. It sent a tremor through Shano's
body. He heard a quick scuffle of feet again, running feet, directly
overhead, and the captain's voice, more urgently, "Power on. They've
heard us."

The words carried no accusation, but Shano realized what they meant.
A slip-up. Something left running. Vibrations picked up quickly by
detectors of the Uranian space fleet.

Shano coughed and heard the ship come to life around him. He pulled
himself out of the spasm, cursing Pluto. Cursing his diseased,
gum-clogged lungs. Cursing the Uranian fleet that was trying to prevent
his going home--even to die.

This was a strange battle. Strange indeed. It was mostly silence.

Occasionally, as though from another world, came a brief, curt order.
"Port guns alert." Then hush and tension.

The deck lurched and the ship swung this way and that. Maybe dodging,
maybe maneuvering--Shano didn't know. He felt the deck lurch, that was
all.

"Fire number seven."

He heard the weird scream of a ray gun, and felt the constricting
terror that seemed to belt the ship like an iron band.

This was a battle in space, and out there were Uranian cruisers trying
to blast the _Stardust_ out of the sky. Trying and trying, while the
captain dodged and fired back--pitted his skill and knowledge against
an enemy Shano couldn't see.

He wanted desperately to help the captain break through, and get to
Earth. But he could only cling to the plastic pipes and cough.

The ship jounced and slid beneath his feet, and was filled with sound.
It rocked and rolled. Shano caromed off the bulkhead.

"Hold fire."

He crawled to his knees on the slippery deck, grabbed the pipes and
pulled himself erect, hand over hand. His eyes came level with the gray
metal box behind the pipes. He squinted, fascinated, at the quivering
dial needle. "Hey!" he said.

"Stand by."

Shano puzzled it out, his mind groping. He wasn't used to thinking.
Only working with his hands.

This box. This needle that had quivered when the ship was closed
down....

"It's over. Chased them off. Ready guns before laying to. Third watch
on duty."

Shano sighed at the sudden release of tension throughout the space
liner _Stardust_.

Smoke spewed from his nostrils. His forehead wrinkled with
concentration. Those rumors: "Man sells out to Uranus, gets a nick cut
in his jaw. Ever see a man with a nick in his jaw? Watch him, he's up
to something." The talk of ignorant men. Shano remembered.

He poked behind the pipes and angrily slapped the toggle switches on
the box. The captain would only scoff. He'd never believe there was a
traitor aboard who had planted an electronic signal box, giving away
the ship's position. He'd never believe the babblings of an old man.

He straightened up, glaring angrily. He knew. And the knowledge made
him cold and furious. He watched the engine room emergency exit as it
opened cautiously.

A chunky man backed out, holstering a flat blaster. He turned and saw
Shano, standing smoking. He walked over and nudged Shano, his face
dark. Shano blew smoke into the dark face.

"Old man," said Rourke. "What're you doing down here?"

Shano blinked.

Rourke fingered the nick in his jaw, eyes glinting. "You're supposed to
be in your cabin," he said. "Didn't I warn you we'd run into trouble?"

Shano smoked and contemplated the chunky man. Estimated his strength
and youth and felt the anger and frustration mount in him. "Devil," he
said.

[Illustration: _"Devil," he said and dug his cigarette into the other's
face._]

He lunged then, clawing. He dug the cigarette into Rourke's flushed
face, and clung to his body. Rourke howled. He fell backward to the
deck, slapping at his blistered face. He thrashed around and Shano
clung to him, battered, pressing the cigarette relentlessly, coughing,
cursing the pain in his joints.

Shano grasped Rourke's neck with his hands. He twisted the neck with
his gnarled hands. Strong hands that had worked.

He got up when Rourke stopped thrashing. The face was purple and he
was dead. Shano shivered. He crouched in the passageway shivering and
coughing.

       *       *       *       *       *

A tremendous grinding sounded amid-ships. Loud rending noises of
protesting metal. The ship bucked like a hooked fish. Then it was
still. An empty clank echoed through the hull. The captain's voice
came, almost yelling. "Emergency! Emergency! Back to your posts. Engine
room--report! Engine room--"

Shano picked himself off the deck, his mind muddled. He coughed and
put a cigarette to his lips, flicking a lighter disk jerkily from his
pocket. He blew smoke from his nostrils and heard the renewed pounding
of feet. What was going on now?

"Engine room! Your screen is dead! Switch onto loud-speaker system.
Engine room!"

Giddily, Shano heard clicks and rasps and then a thick voice, atom
motors whirring in the background.

"Selector's gone, sir. Direct hit. Heat ray through the deck plates.
We've sealed the tear. Might repair selector in five hours."

Shano coughed and sent a burst of smoke from his mouth.

"Captain!" A rasping, grating sound ensued from a grill above Shano's
head, then a disconnected voice. "Get the men out of there. It's
useless. Hurry it up!" A series of clicks and the heavy voice of the
chief engineer. "Captain! Somebody's smashed the selector chamber.
Engine room's full of toxia gas!"

Shano jumped. He prodded the body on the deck with his toe.

The _Stardust's_ mechanical voice bellowed: "Engine room!" It
reproduced the captain's heavy breathing and his tired voice. "We're
about midway to Venus," it said. "There were two ships and we drove
them off. But there may be others. They'll be coming back. They know
we've been hit. We have to get away fast!"

Shano could see the captain in his mind, worried, squared face slick
with moisture. Shouting into a control room mike. Trying to find out
what the matter was with his space ship.

The engineer's answer came from the grill. "Impossible, sir. Engine
room full of toxia gas. Not a suit aboard prepared to withstand it. And
we have to keep it in there. Selector filaments won't function without
the gas. Our only chance was to put a man in the engine room to repair
the broken selector valve rods or keep them running by hand."

"Blast it!" roared the captain. "No way of getting in there? Can't you
by-pass the selector?"

"No. It's the heart of the new cosmic drive, sir. The fuels must pass
through selector valves before entering the tube chambers. Filaments
will operate so long as toxia gas is there to burn, and will keep
trying to open the valves and compensate for fluctuating engine
temperature. But the rod pins have melted down, sir--they're common
tungsten steel--and when the rods pull a valve open, they slip off and
drop down, useless. It's a mess. If we could only get a man in there
he might lift up the dropped end of a rod and slip it into place each
time it fell, and keep the valves working and feeding fuel."

The speaker spluttered and Shano smoked thoughtfully, listening to the
talk back and forth, between the captain and the engineer. He didn't
understand it, but knew that everything was ended. They were broken
down in space and would never make Earth. Those Uranian devils would
come streaking back. Catch them floating, helpless, and blast them to
bits. And he would never get home to die.

Shano coughed, and cursed his lungs. Time was when these gum-clogged
lungs had saved his life. In the Plutonian mines. Gas explosions in the
tunnels. Toxia gas, seeping in, burning the men's insides. But with
gum-clogged lungs he'd been able to work himself clear. Just getting
sick where other men had died, their insides burned out.

Shano smoked and thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

They wouldn't even know, he told himself, squirming through the
emergency exit into the engine room, and sealing it after him. And they
wouldn't understand if they did. Pink mist swirled about him. Toxia
gas. Shano coughed.

He squinted around at the massive, incomprehensible machinery. The guts
of the space ship.

Then he saw the shattered, gold-gleaming cylinder, gas hissing from
a fine nozzle, and filaments glowing bluish inside it, still working
away. He saw five heavy Carrsteel rods hanging useless, on melted-down
pins, and the slots their pronged ends hooked into. He looked at his
hands, and shook his head.

"One try," he said to himself. "One try, Shano. One important thing in
your life. Here's your opportunity. The toxia gas will get you. It'll
kill you at this concentration. But you'll last for maybe twelve hours.
Another man wouldn't last a minute. Another man's lungs aren't clogged
with Juno gum."

He grasped a rod and lifted it, sweating under the weight, and slipped
the forked end into its slot. Going home to die, he thought. Well,
maybe not going home. Couldn't remember what Earth looked like anyway.

What was that again? Oh yeah--just lift them up, and when they drop
off, lift them up again.

Shano coughed, and lifted the heavy rods into position. One jerked back
suddenly and smoothly, and something went, "Pop, pop," behind him and
machinery whirred. He lifted the rod and slipped it back on. Another
jerked, pulled open a large valve, and dropped off. Shano bent, and
lifted, coughing and coughing. He forgot what he was doing, mind blank
the way it went when he worked. Just rhythmically fell into the job,
the way a laborer does. He waited for a rod to slip and fall, then
lifted it up and slipped it in place, skin sweating, joints shooting
pain along his limbs. He heard the machinery working. He heard the
high, howling whine of cosmic jets. He, Shano, was making the machinery
go. He was running the cosmic drive.

A bell clanged somewhere. "Engine room! Engine room! We're under way!
What happened?"

Silence, while Shano coughed and made the machinery go, thinking about
the Earth he hadn't seen for many years.

"Captain!" the speaker bawled. "There's a man in there! Working the
valve rods! Somebody is in the engine room and the gas isn't...."

Shano grinned, feeling good. Feeling happy. Lifting the heavy steel
rods, driving the ship. Keeping the jets screaming and hurtling the
liner _Stardust_ toward Venus. He wondered if they'd found Rourke yet.
If he could keep going for twelve hours they would get to Venus. After
that....

"Home," he coughed. "Hell! Who wants to go home?"

He plucked at his agitated chest, thinking of a whole damn Uranian
fleet swooping down on a spot in space, expecting to find a crippled
ship there with a spy inside it. And finding nothing. Because of Shano.
A useless old man.

Coughing came out all mixed up with laughing.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Signal Red, by Henry Guth

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SIGNAL RED ***

***** This file should be named 63860.txt or 63860.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/8/6/63860/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
