ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Giants Return, by Robert Abernathy

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: The Giants Return

Author: Robert Abernathy

Release Date: December 05, 2020 [EBook #63899]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GIANTS RETURN ***




                           THE GIANTS RETURN

                          By ROBERT ABERNATHY

               Earth set itself grimly to meet them with
               corrosive fire, determined to blast them
             back to the stars. But they erred in thinking
                the Old Ones were too big to be clever.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1949.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


In the last hours the star ahead had grown brighter by many magnitudes,
and had changed its color from a dazzling blue through white to the
normal yellow, of a GO sun. That was the Doppler effect as the star's
radial velocity changed relative to the _Quest III_, as for forty hours
the ship had decelerated.

They had seen many such stars come near out of the galaxy's glittering
backdrop, and had seen them dwindle, turn red and go out as the _Quest
III_ drove on its way once more, lashed by despair toward the speed of
light, leaving behind the mockery of yet another solitary and lifeless
luminary unaccompanied by worlds where men might dwell. They had grown
sated with the sight of wonders--of multiple systems of giant stars, of
nebulae that sprawled in empty flame across light years.

But now unwonted excitement possessed the hundred-odd members of the
_Quest III's_ crew. It was a subdued excitement; men and women, they
came and stood quietly gazing into the big vision screens that showed
the oncoming star, and there were wide-eyed children who had been born
in the ship and had never seen a planet. The grownups talked in low
voices, in tones of mingled eagerness and apprehension, of what might
lie at the long journey's end. For the _Quest III_ was coming home; the
sun ahead was _the_ Sun, whose rays had warmed their lives' beginning.

       *       *       *       *       *

Knof Llud, the _Quest III's_ captain, came slowly down the narrow
stair from the observatory, into the big rotunda that was now the main
recreation room, where most of the people gathered. The great chamber,
a full cross-section of the vessel, had been at first a fuel hold. At
the voyage's beginning eighty per cent of the fifteen-hundred-foot
cylinder had been engines and fuel; but as the immense stores were
spent and the holds became radioactively safe, the crew had spread
out from its original cramped quarters. Now the interstellar ship was
little more than a hollow shell.

Eyes lifted from the vision screens to interrogate Knof Llud; he met
them with an impassive countenance, and announced quietly, "We've
sighted Earth."

A feverish buzz arose; the captain gestured for silence and went on,
"It is still only a featureless disk to the telescope. Zost Relyul has
identified it--no more."

But this time the clamor was not to be settled. People pressed round
the screens, peering into them as if with the naked eye they could
pick out the atom of reflected light that was Earth, home. They wrung
each other's hands, kissed, shouted, wept. For the present their fears
were forgotten and exaltation prevailed.

Knof Llud smiled wryly. The rest of the little speech he had been about
to make didn't matter anyway, and it might have spoiled this moment.

He turned to go, and was halted by the sight of his wife, standing at
his elbow. His wry smile took on warmth; he asked, "How do _you_ feel,
Lesra?"

She drew an uncertain breath and released it in a faint sigh. "I don't
know. It's good that Earth's still there." She was thinking, he judged
shrewdly, of Knof Jr. and Delza, who save from pictures could not
remember sunlit skies or grassy fields or woods in summer....

He said, with a touch of tolerant amusement, "What did you think might
have happened to Earth? After all, it's only been nine hundred years."

"That's just it," said Lesra shakily. "Nine hundred years have gone
by--_there_--and nothing will be the same. It won't be the same world
we left, the world we knew and fitted in...."

The captain put an arm round her with comforting pressure. "Don't
worry. Things may have changed--but we'll manage." But his face had
hardened against registering the gnawing of that same doubtful fear
within him. He let his arm fall. "I'd better get up to the bridge.
There's a new course to be set now--for Earth."

He left her and began to climb the stairway again. Someone switched
off the lights, and a charmed whisper ran through the big room as the
people saw each other's faces by the pale golden light of Earth's own
Sun, mirrored and multiplied by the screens. In that light Lesra's eyes
gleamed with unshed tears.

Captain Llud found Navigator Gwar Den looking as smug as the cat
that ate the canary. Gwar Den was finding that the actual observed
positions of the planets thus far located agreed quite closely with
his extrapolations from long unused charts of the Solar System. He had
already set up on the calculator a course that would carry them to
Earth.

Llud nodded curt approval, remarking, "Probably we'll be intercepted
before we get that far."

Den was jolted out of his happy abstraction. "Uh, Captain," he said
hesitantly. "What kind of a reception do you suppose we'll get?"

Llud shook his head slowly. "Who knows? We don't know whether any
of the other _Quests_ returned successful, or if they returned at
all. And we don't know what changes have taken place on Earth. It's
possible--not likely, though--that something has happened to break
civilization's continuity to the point where our expedition has been
forgotten altogether."

       *       *       *       *       *

He turned away grim-lipped and left the bridge. From his private
office-cabin, he sent a message to Chief Astronomer Zost Relyul to
notify him as soon as Earth's surface features became clear; then he
sat idle, alone with his thoughts.

The ship's automatic mechanisms had scant need of tending; Knof Llud
found himself wishing that he could find some back-breaking task for
everyone on board, himself included, to fill up the hours that remained.

There was an extensive and well-chosen film library in the cabin, but
he couldn't persuade himself to kill time that way. He could go down
and watch the screens, or to the family apartment where he might find
Lesra and the children--but somehow he didn't want to do that either.

He felt empty, drained--like his ship. As the _Quest III's_ fuel stores
and the hope of success in man's mightiest venture had dwindled, so the
strength had gone out of him. Now the last fuel compartment was almost
empty and Captain Knof Llud felt tired and old.

Perhaps, he thought, he was feeling the weight of his nine hundred
Earth years--though physically he was only forty now, ten years older
than when the voyage had begun. That was the foreshortening along the
time axis of a space ship approaching the speed of light. Weeks and
months had passed for the _Quest III_ in interstellar flight while
years and decades had raced by on the home world.

Bemusedly Llud got to his feet and stood surveying a cabinet with
built-in voice recorder and pigeonholes for records. There were about
three dozen film spools there--his personal memoirs of the great
expedition, a segment of his life and of history. He might add that to
the ship's official log and its collections of scientific data, as a
report to whatever powers might be on Earth now--if such powers were
still interested.

Llud selected a spool from among the earliest. It was one he had made
shortly after leaving Procyon, end of the first leg of the trip. He
slid it onto the reproducer.

His own voice came from the speaker, fresher, more vibrant and
confident than he knew it was now.

"One light-day out from Procyon, the thirty-third day by ship's time
since leaving Earth.

"Our visit to Procyon drew a blank. There is only one huge planet, twice
the size of Jupiter, and like Jupiter utterly unfit to support a colony.

"Our hopes were dashed--and I think all of us, even remembering the
Centaurus Expedition's failure, hoped more than we cared to admit. If
Procyon had possessed a habitable planet, we could have returned after
an absence of not much over twenty years Earth time.

"It is cheering to note that the crew seems only more resolute. We go
on to Capella; its spectrum, so like our own Sun's, beckons. If success
comes there, a century will have passed before we can return to Earth;
friends, relatives, all the generation that launched the _Quest_ ships
will be long since dead. Nevertheless we go on. Our generation's dream,
humanity's dream, lives in us and in the ship forever...."

Presently Knof Llud switched off that younger voice of his and leaned
back, an ironic smile touching his lips. That fervent idealism seemed
remote and foreign to him now. The fanfares of departure must still
have been ringing in his ears.

He rose, slipped the record back in its niche and picked out another,
later, one.

"One week since we passed close enough to Aldebaran to ascertain that
that system, too, is devoid of planets.

"We face the unpleasant realization that what was feared is probably
true--that worlds such as the Sun's are a rare accident, and that we
may complete our search without finding even one new Earth.

"It makes no difference, of course; we cannot betray the plan....
This may be man's last chance of escaping his pitiful limitation to
one world in all the Universe. Certainly the building of this ship
and its two sisters, the immense expenditure of time and labor and
energy stores that went into them, left Earth's economy drained and
exhausted. Only once in a long age does mankind rise to such a selfless
and transcendent effort--the effort of Egypt that built the pyramids,
or the war efforts of the nations in the last great conflicts of the
twentieth century.

"Looked at historically, such super-human outbursts of energy are
the result of a population's outgrowing its room and resources, and
therefore signalize the beginning of the end. Population can be
limited, but the price is a deadly frustration, because growth alone is
life.... In our day the end of man's room for growth on the Earth was
in sight--so we launched the _Quests_. Perhaps our effort will prove as
futile as pyramid-building, less practical than orgies of slaughter to
reduce pressure.... In any case, it would be impossible to transport
very many people to other stars; but Earth could at least go into
its decline with the knowledge that its race went onward and upward,
expanding limitlessly into the Universe....

"Hopeless, unless we find planets!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Knof Llud shook his head sorrowfully and took off the spool. That
was from the time when he had grown philosophical after the first
disappointments.

He frowned thoughtfully, choosing one more spool that was only four
years old. The recorded voice sounded weary, yet alive with a strange
longing....

"We are in the heart of Pleiades; a hundred stars show brilliant on
the screens, each star encircled by a misty halo like lights glowing
through fog, for we are traversing a vast diffuse nebula.

"According to plan, the _Quest III_ has reached its furthest point from
Earth. Now we turn back along a curve that will take us past many more
stars and stellar systems--but hope is small that any of those will
prove a home for man, as have none of the thousands of stars examined
already.

"But what are a few thousand stars in a galaxy of billions? We have
only, as it were, visited a handful of the outlying villages of the
Universe, while the lights of its great cities still blaze far ahead
along the Milky Way.

"On flimsy excuses I have had Zost Relyul make observations of the
globular cluster Omega Centauri. There are a hundred thousand stars
there in a volume of space where one finds a few dozen in the Sun's
neighborhood; there if anywhere must circle the planets we seek! But
Omega Centauri is twenty thousand light years away....

"Even so--by expending its remaining fuel freely, the _Quest III_ could
achieve a velocity that would take us there without dying of senility
of aging too greatly. It would be a one-way journey--even if enough
fuel remained, there would be little point in returning to Earth after
more than forty thousand years. By then our civilization certainly, and
perhaps the human race itself, would have perished from memory.

"That was why the planners limited our voyage, and those of the other
_Quests_, to less than a thousand years Earth time. Even now, according
to the sociodynamic predictions made then, our civilization--if the
other expeditions failed also--will have reached a dangerously unstable
phase, and before we can get back it may have collapsed completely from
overpopulation.

"Why go back, then with the news of our failure? Why not forget about
Earth and go on to Omega Centauri? What use is quixotic loyalty to a
decree five thousand years old, whose makers are dead and which may be
forgotten back there?

"Would the crew be willing? I don't know--some of them still show signs
of homesickness, though they know with their minds that everything that
was once 'home' has probably been swept away....

"It doesn't matter. Today I gave orders to swing the ship."

Savagely Knof Llud stabbed the button that shut off the speaker. Then
he sat for a time with head resting in his hands, staring into nothing.

The memory of that fierce impulse to go on still had power to shake
him. A couple of lines of poetry came into his head, as he read them
once in translation from the ancient English....

          ... for my purpose holds
    To sail beyond the sunset, and the baths
    Of all the western stars, until I die.

       *       *       *       *       *

Llud sighed. He still couldn't say just why he had given the order to
turn back. The stars had claimed his heart--but he was still a part of
Earth, and not even nine hundred years of space and time had been able
to alter that.

He wondered if there would still be a quiet stream and a green
shady place beside it where a death-weary man, relieved at last of
responsibility, could rest and dream no more.... Those things went
on, if men didn't change them. And a pine forest where he and young
Knof could go camping, and lie on their backs at night and gaze at the
glittering constellations, far away, out of reach.... He wasn't sure he
would want to do that, though.

Suddenly a faint cushioned jar went through the great ship; it seemed
to falter one moment in flight.

       *       *       *       *       *

The captain was on his feet instantly, but then his movements became
unhurried. Whatever it had been was past, and he had a good idea
what it had been--a meteoroid, nothing unusual in the vicinity of
the Sun, though in interstellar space and around planetless stars
such collisions were rare to the vanishing point. No harm could have
been done. The _Quest III's_ collision armor was nonmaterial and for
practical purposes invulnerable.

Just as he took his finger off the button that opened the door, the
intercommunication phone shrilled imperatively. Knof Llud wheeled,
frowning--surely a meteoroid impact wasn't that serious. Coincidence,
maybe--it might be Zost Relyul calling as instructed.

He reached the phone at the moment when another, heavier jolt shook
the vessel. Llud snatched up the receiver with the speed of a scalded
cat.

"Captain?" It was Gwar Den's voice, stammering a little. "Captain,
we're being attacked!"

"Sound the alarm. Emergency stations." He had said it automatically,
then felt a curious detached relief at the knowledge that after all
these years he could still respond quickly and smoothly to a crisis.
There was a moment's silence, and he heard the alarm start--three
short buzzes and repeat, ringing through all the great length of the
interstellar ship. Knowing that Gwar Den was still there, he said,
"Now--attacked by what?"

"Ships," said Gwar Den helplessly. "Five of them so far. No, there's a
sixth now." Repeated blows quivered the _Quest III's_ framework. The
navigator said, obviously striving for calm, "They're light craft, not
fifty feet long, but they move fast. The detectors hardly had time to
show them before they opened up. Can't get a telescope beam on them
long enough to tell much."

"If they're that small," said Knof Llud deliberately, "they can't carry
anything heavy enough to hurt us. Hold to course. I'll be right up."

In the open doorway he almost fell over his son. Young Knof's eyes were
big; he had heard his father's words.

"Something's happened," he judged with deadly twelve-year-old
seriousness and, without wasting time on questions, "Can I go with you,
huh, Dad?"

Llud hesitated, said, "All right. Come along and keep out of the way."
He headed for the bridge with strides that the boy could not match.

There were people running in the corridors, heading for their posts.
Their faces were set, scared, uncomprehending. The _Quest III_
shuddered, again and again, under blows that must have had millions
of horsepower behind them; but it plunged on toward Earth, its mighty
engines still steadily braking its interstellar velocity.

To a man, the ship's responsible officers were already on the bridge,
most of them breathless. To a man they looked appeal at Captain Knof
Llud.

"Well?" he snapped. "What are they doing?"

Gwar Den spoke. "There are thirteen of them out there now, sir, and
they're all banging away at us."

The captain stared into the black star-strewn depths of a vision screen
where occasional blue points of light winked ominously, never twice
from the same position.

Knof Jr. flattened himself against the metal wall and watched silently.
His young face was less anxious than his elders'; he had confidence in
his father.

"If they had anything heavier," surmised the captain, "they'd have
unlimbered it by now. They're out to get us. But at this rate, they
can't touch us as long as our power lasts--or until they bring up some
bigger stuff."

       *       *       *       *       *

The mild shocks went on--whether from projectiles or energy-charges,
would be hard to find out and it didn't matter; whatever was hitting
the _Quest III's_ shell was doing it at velocities where the
distinction between matter and radiation practically ceases to exist.

But that shell was tough. It was an extension of the gravitic drive
field which transmitted the engines' power equally to every atom of
the ship; forces impinging on the outside of the field were similarly
transmitted and rendered harmless. The effect was as if the vessel and
all space inside its field were a single perfectly elastic body. A
meteoroid, for example, on striking it rebounded--usually vaporized by
the impact--and the ship, in obedience to the law of equal and opposite
forces, rebounded too, but since its mass was so much greater, its
deflection was negligible.

The people in the _Quest III_ would have felt nothing at all of
the vicious onslaught being hurled against them, save that their
inertialess drive, at its normal thrust of two hundred gravities,
was intentionally operated at one half of one per cent efficiency to
provide the illusion of Earthly gravitation.

One of the officers said shakily, "It's as if they've been lying in
wait for us. But why on Earth--"

"That," said the captain grimly, "is what we have to find out. Why--on
Earth. At least, I suspect the answer's there."

The _Quest III_ bored steadily on through space, decelerating. Even if
one were no fatalist, there seemed no reason to stop decelerating or
change course. There was nowhere else to go and too little fuel left
if there had been; come what might, this was journey's end--perhaps
in a more violent and final way than had been anticipated. All around
wheeled the pigmy enemies, circling, maneuvering, and attacking,
always attacking, with the senseless fury of maddened hornets. The
interstellar ship bore no offensive weapons--but suddenly on one of the
vision screens a speck of light flared into nova-brilliance, dazzling
the watchers for the brief moment in which its very atoms were torn
apart.

Knof Jr. whooped ecstatically and then subsided warily, but no one was
paying attention to him. The men on the _Quest III's_ bridge looked
questions at each other, as the thought of help from outside flashed
into many minds at once. But Captain Llud said soberly, "It must have
caught one of their own shots, reflected. Maybe its own, if it scored
too direct a hit."

He studied the data so far gathered. A few blurred pictures had been
got, which showed cylindrical space ships much like the _Quest III_,
except that they were rocket-propelled and of far lesser size. Their
size was hard to ascertain, because you needed to know their distance
and speed--but detector-beam echoes gave the distance, and likewise, by
the Doppler method, the velocity of directly receding or approaching
ships. It was apparent that the enemy vessels were even smaller than
Gwar Den had at first supposed--not large enough to hold even one man.
Tiny, deadly hornets with a colossal sting.

"Robot craft, no doubt," said Knof Llud, but a chill ran down his spine
as it occurred to him that perhaps the attackers weren't of human
origin. They had seen no recognizable life in the part of the galaxy
they had explored, but one of the other _Quests_ might have encountered
and been traced home by some unhuman race that was greedy and able to
conquer.

       *       *       *       *       *

It became evident, too, that the bombardment was being kept up by a
constant arrival of fresh attackers, while others raced away into
space, presumably returning to base to replenish their ammunition. That
argued a planned and prepared interception with virulent hatred behind
it.

Elsuz Llug, the gravitic engineer, calculated dismally, "At the rate
we're having to shed energy, the fuel will be gone in six or eight
hours."

"We'll have reached Earth before then," Gwar Den said hopefully.

"If they don't bring out the heavy artillery first."

"We're under the psychological disadvantage," said the captain, "of not
knowing why we're being attacked."

Knof Jr. burst out, spluttering slightly with the violence of a
thought too important to suppress, "But we're under a ps-psychological
advantage, too!"

His father raised an eyebrow. "What's that? I don't seem to have
noticed it."

"They're mad and we aren't, yet," said the boy. Then, seeing that he
hadn't made himself clear, "In a fight, if a guy gets mad he starts
swinging wild and then you nail him."

Smiles splintered the ice of tension. Captain Llud said, "Maybe you've
got something there. They seem to be mad, all right. But we're not in
a position to throw any punches." He turned back to the others. "As I
was going to say--I think we'd better try to parley with the enemy. At
least we may find out who he is and why he's determined to smash us."

And now instead of tight-beam detectors the ship was broadcasting on an
audio carrier wave that shifted through a wide range of frequencies,
repeating on each the same brief recorded message:

"Who are you? What do you want? We are the interstellar expedition
_Quest III_...." And so on, identifying themselves and protesting that
they were unarmed and peaceful, that there must be some mistake, and
querying again, "Who are _you_?"

There was no answer. The ship drove on, its fuel trickling away under
multiplied demands. Those outside were squandering vastly greater
amounts of energy in the effort to batter down its defenses, but
converting that energy into harmless gravitic impulses was costing the
_Quest III_ too. Once more Knof Llud had the insidious sense of his own
nerves and muscles and will weakening along with the power-sinews of
his ship.

Zost Relyul approached him apologetically. "If you have time,
Captain--I've got some data on Earth now."

Eagerly Llud took the sheaf of photographs made with the telescope. But
they told him nothing; only the continental outlines were clear, and
those were as they had been nine hundred years ago.... He looked up
inquiringly at Zost Relyul.

"There are some strange features," said the astronomer carefully.
"First of all--there are no lights on the night side. And on the
daylight face, our highest magnification should already reveal traces
of cities, canals, and the like--but it does not.

"The prevailing color of the land masses, you see, is the normal
green vegetation. But the diffraction spectrum is queer. It indicates
reflecting surfaces less than one-tenth millimeter wide--so the
vegetation there can't be trees or grass, but must be more like a fine
moss or even a coarse mold."

"Is that all?" demanded Llud.

"Isn't it enough?" said Zost Relyul blankly. "Well--we tried
photography by invisible light, of course. The infra-red shows nothing
and likewise the ultraviolet up to the point where the atmosphere is
opaque to it."

The captain sighed wearily. "Good work," he said. "Keep it up; perhaps
you can answer some of these riddles before--"

"_We know who you are_," interrupted a harshly crackling voice with a
strange accent, "_and pleading will do you no good._"

       *       *       *       *       *

Knof Llud whirled to the radio apparatus, his weariness dropping from
him once more. He snapped, "But who are you?" and the words blended
absurdly with the same words in his own voice on the still repeating
tape.

He snapped off the record; as he did so the speaker, still crackling
with space static, said, "It may interest you to know that you are the
last. The two other interstellar expeditions that went out have already
returned and been destroyed, as you will soon be--the sooner, if you
continue toward Earth."

Knof Llud's mind was clicking again. The voice--which must be coming
from Earth, relayed by one of the midget ships--was not very smart; it
had already involuntarily told him a couple of things--that it was not
as sure of itself as it sounded he deduced from the fact it had deigned
to speak at all, and from its last remark he gathered that the _Quest
III's_ ponderous and unswerving progress toward Earth had somehow
frightened it. So it was trying to frighten them.

He shoved those facts back for future use. Just now he had to know
something, so vitally that he asked it as a bald question, "_Are you
human?_"

The voice chuckled sourly. "We are human," it answered, "but you are
not."

The captain was momentarily silent, groping for an adequate reply.
Behind him somebody made a choked noise, the only sound in the stunned
hush, and the ship jarred slightly as a thunderbolt slammed vengefully
into its field.

"Suppose we settle this argument about humanity," said Knof Llud
woodenly. He named a vision frequency.

"Very well." The tone was like a shrug. The voice went on in its
language that was quite intelligible, but alien-sounding with the
changes that nine hundred years had wrought. "Perhaps, if you realize
your position, you will follow the intelligent example of the _Quest
I's_ commander."

Knof Llud stiffened. The _Quest I_, launched toward Arcturus and the
star cloud called Berenice's Hair, had been after the _Quest III_ the
most hopeful of the expeditions--and its captain had been a good friend
of Llud's, nine hundred years ago.... He growled, "What happened to
him?"

"He fought off our interceptors, which are around you now, for some
time," said the voice lightly. "When he saw that it was hopeless, he
preferred suicide to defeat, and took his ship into the Sun." A short
pause. "The vision connection is ready."

Knof Llud switched on the screen at the named wavelength, and a
picture formed there. The face and figure that appeared were ugly,
but undeniably a man's. His features and his light-brown skin showed
the same racial characteristics possessed by those aboard the _Quest
III_, but he had an elusive look of deformity. Most obviously, his head
seemed too big for his body, and his eyes in turn too big for his head.

He grinned nastily at Knof Llud. "Have you any other last wishes?"

"Yes," said Llud with icy control. "You haven't answered one question.
Why do you want to kill us? You can see we're as human as you are."

The big-headed man eyed him with a speculative look in his great
eyes, behind which the captain glimpsed the flickering raw fire of a
poisonous hatred.

"It is enough for you to know that you must die."

[Illustration: "_It is enough for you to know that you must die._"]

       *       *       *       *       *

Llud frowned darkly--then an incredible light burst in his brain.
He stared at the pictured figure with quite new and indescribable
sensations. "You," he said slowly, "are not on Earth, as I was
assuming; if you were, there'd be a time lag of quite a few minutes
in this conversation. You must be on one of those miniature ships out
there--which aren't big enough to hold a man!"

He saw the uncanny hate flare closer to the surface this time.

"You are clever," said the big-headed man spitefully. "Very well,
then--in your screen you see some of the differences between me, who am
human, and you, who are not any more. The main difference, which you do
not see, is that I am three point sixty-two millimeters high, and you
are more like two meters."

Knof Llud was speechless. The man who had just said he was an eighth
of an inch tall grinned unpleasantly again at his amazement. "Yes," he
said. "I am one of the New Humanity, which has replaced your kind on
the Earth. You are the last of the old, subhuman race of giants, which
will very shortly be extinct."

"It's impossible," whispered Llud. But he had to remember that he had
been on the verge of deducing the thing himself.

The little man folded his arms and gazed at him with mocking
superiority. "You have the mentality of nine hundred years ago. Your
age would have called size reduction impossible, even though they
already had most of the biophysical and genetic knowledge needed. They
suffered from increasing overpopulation, but they were blind to the
obvious answer--so Earth went through the wasteful folly of launching
the interstellar ships. We are descended from dull-witted giants like
you."

Cautiously, out of sight of the screen, Llud extended a hand and found
a pad of memo blanks and a pencil. Without taking his eyes off the
magnified, bragging image, he began to write. He thought he had the
answer now to this murderous welcome.

"_We_ have found the solution of the problem of growth," the image was
saying. "For seven hundred years now, each generation has been smaller
than the one before, so that there is constantly more room on the
planet, relatively speaking; and the process still goes on. There are
six hundred trillion of us on Earth now. In another two generations
there will be a quadrillion human beings only two millimeters tall--and
no overcrowding.

"But," the little man snarled venomously, "we have no room for you
giants!"

Knof Llud sighed. The sagging lines of his face were calculated to
reassure the other and his superiors on Earth, to whom the sight-sound
conversation was undoubtedly being relayed. Llud said tiredly, "But
you don't have any reason for destroying us. Why not let us land on
one of the worthless outer planets, and make an attempt to live there?
Or, if you will give us a little atomic fuel, we will leave the Solar
System again and trouble you no more. In exchange we have a great deal
of knowledge, data on the stars of the Taurus Cluster and beyond, to
offer...."

       *       *       *       *       *

As he spoke, he was beckoning Gwar Den to him, handing the navigator
the brief order he had scrawled on the pad.

The little man laughed shortly. "As if we could trust you--or wanted
your worthless knowledge of stars! No, we will not bargain with giants."

The captain said slowly, for there was still time to be gained in order
that the gamble he had decided on might have its chance, "You're very
sure that you _can_ smash us. Remember, we control gravitic forces, a
science you have evidently lost."

He saw the look of sneering triumph waver a little; then the image
snapped, "We destroyed the others. Your screen, whatever it is, is not
impenetrable; we have power to break through it."

That was true, of course. The drive-field would collapse when the fuel
ran out, desperately soon now.

Llud started to speak again; then he felt the nearly imperceptible
lurch that meant the _Quest III_ had applied a terrific acceleration at
an angle to its line of flight. Gwar Den had done a quick job.

The impacts of enemy fire ceased; the ship's abrupt swerve had
temporarily shaken off its rocket-driven tormentors.

Almost simultaneously the image on the screen looked startled. The
man turned as if listening to some one else. "So you've begun a
frantic attempt to dodge. It won't help you--" His jaw dropped and
he listened again; this time he was a little longer overcoming his
surprise. Knof Llud knew what the second message had been as surely as
if he had been there--that the _Quest III_, far from doubling back, was
still heading for Earth, from a slightly different angle, and was even
accelerating. The side thrust had already ceased. That expenditure of
fuel reduced the chances, but it had to be risked.

The little man faced Knof Llud again and smiled savagely. "Whatever
you're trying, we're ready for you!"

"No doubt," thought the captain with some satisfaction. He sat up
straighter and gazed at the little man. His discouraged air was gone
and the look in his eyes was the distillate of cold, searing scorn. He
said, biting off the words with deliberate emphasis, to that one and
the others who would be listening, "You pitiful pigmies."

The face in the screen grew darker with rage; it opened its mouth and
closed it with a snap.

"You pitiful pigmies," repeated Knof Llud. "You're pigmies not only in
physical size, but in everything else. You've thrown away everything
that made being human worthwhile, all for the sake of your one pigmy
ambition--to multiply your crawling little lives and become more and
more at the same time that you become less and less. You've shrunk into
vermin. In the end you'll probably shrink away to nothing, and good
riddance."

With sudden change of pace he shot out a question: "What's the longest
wave length of visible light?"

"2100 angstroms," the answer was mechanical. Then, "You--"

The captain smiled a smile of weary disdain. "I thought so. Six
hundred trillion of you, eh? Crawling around down there in the dark,
because you see in the far ultraviolet--and the atmosphere stops those
frequencies. You can't see the stars! For thousands of years men
watched the stars and wanted them and were kept trying by sight of
them--but you can't see the stars any more."

The face stared at him with great eyes full of unspeakable hate, and
spat a word which had not been in the language when the _Quest III_ was
launched. The screen went suddenly blank.

       *       *       *       *       *

Knof Llud turned away, and his eyes fell on another vision screen.
Earth was clear in it, dead ahead, a disk so near that land and sea
were distinguishable with the naked eye, and coming rapidly nearer. The
sight cost him a moment's nostalgic pain; then he thought of the little
men, swarming ant-like over every square foot of habitable land....
Vermin he had called them; vermin they were.

He found himself, for no sensible reason, counting seconds. He had
got to seventeen when the screen that showed Earth dissolved into a
featureless and blinding glare.

At the same instant a force too tremendous for the senses to register
smote the _Quest III_. The interior of the ship, everything and
everyone in it seemed to stretch and distort like rubber as the
gravitic field was strained beyond its elastic limit. The lights went
out as the drive units claimed the last erg of available energy and
shrieked their overloaded protest through the crushing and twisted
darkness.

But then the lights went on again and the ship was hurtling free in
space. Its people picked themselves up dazedly and tried to understand
why they were still alive.

"Gee, Dad," young Knof said admiringly as he dabbed at a blackening
eye, "what did you do?"

"_I_ didn't do much," said the captain. "The fireworks were from our
little friends. I just took your advice about getting the other fellow
mad, and it worked. They just shut their eyes and swung with everything
they had."

The boy gazed at the vision screen where the Sun was already a star
again. He whistled. "They had plenty."

"I thought the heavy artillery must be ready on Earth in case we kept
going that way. It was--enough of it to knock us right out of the
System at close to the speed of light. Just how close I don't know
yet ... ah." He took a couple of sheets of figures from the hands of
Gwar Den, and devoured them rapidly. He nodded with satisfaction to the
anxious faces around. "We must have been hit simultaneously by fire
from all over one hemisphere--and the forces' resultant, which is now
our course, came out as I had hoped.... Our velocity is close enough;
the journey will take about fourteen years, ship's time, but most of us
can expect to live that long--"

"Where are we going?" demanded Knof Jr., unable to contain his
curiosity.

Captain Knof Llud smiled down at his son with a touch of wistfulness.
The memory of Earth, dwindling into infinite smallness behind, still
hurt him; but young Knof would never know that hurt. And, after
fourteen years, the captain would be about ready to leave his dream in
younger hands.... He laid an arm about the boy's shoulders and pointed
silently to the forward vision screen, to a faint blurred light dead in
its center.

"Omega Centauri," he said, and there was a new confidence in his voice.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GIANTS RETURN ***

***** This file should be named 63899-0.txt or 63899-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/8/9/63899/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

