The Project Gutenberg EBook of A Planet Named Joe, by S. A. Lombino

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: A Planet Named Joe

Author: S. A. Lombino

Release Date: November 27, 2020 [EBook #63890]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A PLANET NAMED JOE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          A PLANET NAMED JOE

                           By S. A. LOMBINO

          _There were more Joes on Venus than you could shake
           a ray-gun at. Perhaps there was method in Colonel
        Walsh's madness--murder-madness--when he ordered Major
             Polk to scan the planet for a guy named Joe._

   [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Planet Stories
November 1952. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the
           U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Colonel Walsh had a great sense of humor. I hated his guts ever since
we went through the Academy together, but he had a great sense of humor.

For example, he could have chosen a Second Looie for the job on Venus.
He might even have picked a Captain. But he liked me about as much as
I liked him, and so he decided the job was just right for a Major. At
least, that's what he told me.

I stood at attention before his desk in the Patrol Station. We were
somewhere in Area Two on Earth, takeoff point for any operations in
Space II. The duty was fine, and I liked it a lot. Come to think of
it, the most I ever did was inspect a few defective tubes every now and
then. The rest was gravy, and Colonel Walsh wasn't going to let me get
by with gravy.

"It will be a simple assignment, Major," he said to me, peering over
his fingers. He held them up in front of him like a cathedral.

"Yes, sir," I said.

"It will involve finding one man, a Venusian native."

I wanted to say, "Then why the hell don't you send a green kid on
the job? Why me?" Instead, I nodded and watched him playing with his
fingers.

"The man is a trader of sorts. Rather intelligent." He paused, then
added, "For a native, that is."

I had never liked Walsh's attitude toward natives. I hadn't liked the
way he'd treated the natives on Mars ever since he'd taken over there.
Which brought to mind an important point.

"I always figured Venus was under the jurisdiction of Space III, sir. I
thought our activities were confined to Mars."

He folded his fingers like a deck of cards and dropped them on his desk
as if he were waiting for me to cut.

"Mmmm," he said, "yes, that's true. But this is a special job. It so
happens this Venusian is the one man who can help us understand just
what's happening on Mars."

I tried to picture a Venusian understanding Mars and I didn't get very
far.

"He's had many dealings with the natives there," Walsh explained. "If
anyone can tell us the reasons for the revolt, he can."

If Walsh really wanted to know the reasons for the revolt, I could give
them to him in one word: Walsh. I had to laugh at the way he called
it "revolt." It had been going on for six months now and we'd lost at
least a thousand men from Space II. Revolt.

"And this man is on Venus now?" I asked for confirmation. I'd never
been to Venus, being in Space II ever since I'd left the Moon run. It
was just like Walsh to ship me off to a strange place.

"Yes, Major," he said. "This man is on Venus."

At the Academy he had called me Fred. That was before I'd reported
him for sleeping on Boiler Watch. He'd goofed off on a pile of uranium
that could've, and almost did, blow the barracks sky-high that night.
He still thought it was my fault, as if I'd done the wrong thing by
reporting him. And now, through the fouled-up machinery that exists in
any military organization, he outranked me.

"And the man's name, sir?"

"Joe." A tight smile played on his face.

"Joe what?" I asked.

"Just Joe."

"Just Joe?"

"Yes," Walsh said. "A native, you know. They rarely go in for more than
first names. But then, it should be simple to find a man with a name
like Joe. Among the natives, I mean."

"I don't know, sir."

"A relatively simple assignment," Walsh said.

"Can you tell me anything else about this man? Physical appearance?
Personal habits? Anything?"

Walsh seemed to consider this for a moment. "Well, physically he's like
any of the other Venusians, so I can't give you much help there. He
does have a peculiar habit, though."

"What's that?"

"He has an affinity for Terran cigarettes."

I sighed. "Well, it's not very much to go on."

"You'll find him," Walsh said, grinning. "I'm sure of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

The trip to Venus came off without a hitch. I did a lot of thinking on
that trip. I thought about Mars and the revolt there. And I thought
about Colonel Leonard Walsh and how he was supposed to be quelling that
revolt. Ever since Walsh had taken command, ever since he'd started
pushing the natives around, there'd been trouble. It was almost as if
the whole damned planet had blown up in our faces the moment he took
over. Swell guy, Walsh.

Venus was hotter than I'd expected it to be. Much too hot for the tunic
I was wearing. It smelled, too. A funny smell I couldn't place. Like
a mixture of old shoe and after-shave. There were plants everywhere
I looked. Big plants and small ones, some blooming with flowers I'd
never seen before, and some as bare as cactus.

I recognized a blue figure as one of the natives the pilot had told me
about. He was tall, looking almost human except that everything about
him was elongated. His features, his muscles, everything seemed to have
been stretched like a rubber band. I kept expecting him to pop back to
normal. Instead, he flashed a double row of brilliant teeth at me.

I wondered if he spoke English. "Hey, boy," I called.

He ambled over with long-legged strides that closed the distance
between us in seconds.

"Call me Joe," he said.

I dropped my bags and stared at him. Maybe this _was_ going to be a
simple assignment after all. "I sure am glad to see you, Joe," I said.

"Same here, Toots," he answered.

"The guys back in Space II are searching high and low for you," I told
him.

"You've got the wrong number," he said, and I was a little surprised at
his use of Terran idiom.

"You are Joe, aren't you? Joe the trader?"

"I'm Joe, all right," he said. "Only thing I ever traded, though, was a
pocketknife. Got a set of keys for it."

"Oh," I said, my voice conveying my disappointment. I sighed and began
wondering just how I should go about contacting the Joe I was looking
for. My orders said I was to report to Captain Bransten immediately
upon arrival. I figured the hell with Captain Bransten. I outranked him
anyway, and there wasn't much he could do if I decided to stop for a
drink first.

"Where's the Officer's Club?" I asked the Venusian.

"Are you buying information or are you just curious?"

"Can you take me there?" I asked.

"Sure thing, Toots." He picked up my bags and started walking up a
heavily overgrown path. We'd probably walked for about ten minutes when
he dropped my bags and said, "There it is."

The Officer's Club was a plasteel hut with window shields that
protected it from the heat of the sun. It didn't look too comfortable
but I really wanted that drink. I reached into my tunic and slipped
the native thirty solars.

He stared at the credits curiously and then shrugged his shoulders. "Oh
well, you're new here. We'll let it go."

He took off then, while I stared after him, wondering just what he'd
meant. Had I tipped him too little?

I shrugged and looked over at the Officer's Club. From the outside it
looked as hot as hell.

On the inside it was about two degrees short of that mark. I began to
curse Walsh for taking me away from my nice soft job in Space II.

There wasn't much inside the club. A few tables and chairs, a dart game
and a bar. Behind the bar a tall Venusian lounged.

I walked over and asked, "What are you serving, pal?"

"Call me Joe," he answered.

He caught me off balance. "What?"

"Joe," he said again.

A faint glimmer of understanding began to penetrate my thick skull.
"You wouldn't happen to be Joe the trader? The guy who knows all about
Mars, would you?"

"I never left home," he said simply. "What are you drinking?"

That rat! That dirty, filthy, stinking, unprincipled....

_But then, it should be simple to find a man with a name like_ Joe.
_Among the natives, I mean._

Sure. Oh sure. Real simple. Walsh was about the lowest, most
contemptible....

"What are you drinking, pal?" the Venusian asked again.

"Skip it," I said. "How do I get to the captain's shack?"

"Follow your nose, pal. Can't miss it."

I started to pick up my bag as another Venusian entered. He waved at
the bartender.

"Hello, Joe," he said. "How's it going?"

"Not so hot, Joe," the bartender replied.

I listened in fascination. Joe, Joe, Joe. So this was Walsh's idea of a
great gag. Very funny. Very....

"You Major Polk, sweetheart?" the Venusian who'd just come in asked.

"Yes," I said, still thinking of Colonel Walsh.

"You better get your butt over to the captain's shack," he said. "He's
about ready to post you as overdue."

"Sure," I said wearily. "Will you take my bags, please?"

"Roger," he answered. He picked up the bags and nodded at the bar.

"So long, Joe," he said to the bartender.

"See you, Joe," the bartender called back.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Bransten was a mousey, unimpressive sort of man. He was wearing
a tropical tunic, but he still resembled a wilted lily more than he did
an officer.

"Have a seat, Major," he offered. He reached for a cigarette box on the
desk and extended it to me. He coughed in embarrassment when he saw it
was empty. Quickly, he pressed a button on his desk and the door popped
open. A tall, blue Venusian stepped lithely into the room.

"Sir?" the Venusian asked.

"We're out of cigarettes, Joe," the Captain said. "Will you get us
some, please?"

"Sure thing," the Venusian answered. He smiled broadly and closed the
door behind him.

_Another Joe_, I thought. _Another damned Joe._

"They steal them," Captain Bransten said abruptly.

"Steal what?" I asked.

"Cigarettes. I sometimes think the cigarette is one of the few things
they like about Terran culture."

So Walsh had taken care of that angle too. _He does have a peculiar
habit, though. He has an affinity for Terran cigarettes._ Cigarettes
was the tip I should have given; not solars.

"All right," I said, "suppose we start at the beginning."

Captain Bransten opened his eyes wide. "Sir?" he asked.

"What's with all this Joe business? It may be a very original name but
I think its popularity here is a little outstanding."

Captain Bransten began to chuckle softly. I personally didn't think it
was so funny. I tossed him my withering Superior Officer's gaze and
waited for his explanation.

"I hadn't realized this was your first time on Venus," he said.

"Is there a local hero named Joe?" I asked.

"No, no, nothing like that," he assured me. "It's a simple culture, you
know. Not nearly as developed as Mars."

"I can see that," I said bitingly.

"And the natives are only now becoming acquainted with Terran culture.
Lots of enlisted men, you know."

I began to get the idea. And I began to appreciate Walsh's doubtful
ancestry more keenly.

"It's impossible to tell exactly where it all started, of course,"
Bransten was saying.

I was beginning to get angry. Very angry. I was thinking of Walsh
sitting back in a nice cozy foam chair back on Earth.

"Get to the point, Captain!" I barked.

"Easy, sir," Bransten said, turning pale. I could see that the Captain
wasn't used to entertaining Majors. "The enlisted men. You know how
they are. They'll ask a native to do something and they'll call him
Joe. 'Hey, Joe, give me a hand with this.' Or 'Listen, Joe, how'd you
like to earn some cigarettes?' Do you follow?"

"I follow, all right," I said bitterly.

"Well," Bransten went on, "that sort of thing mushrooms. The natives
are a simple, almost childish people. It appealed to them--the Joe
business, I mean. Now they're all Joe. They like it. That and the
cigarettes."

He cleared his throat and looked at me apologetically as if he were
personally responsible for Venusian culture. In fact, he looked as if
he were responsible for having put Venus in the heavens in the first
place.

"Do you understand, Major? Just a case of extended idiom, that's all."

Just a case of extended _idiot_, I thought. An idiot on a wild goose
chase a hell of a long way from home.

"I understand perfectly," I snapped. "Where are my quarters?"

Bransten asked a Venusian named Joe to show me my quarters, reminding
me that chow was at thirteen hundred. As I was leaving, the first
Venusian came back with the cigarettes Bransten had ordered.

I could tell by the look on his face that he probably had half a carton
stuffed into his pockets. I shrugged and went to change into a tropical
tunic.

I called Earth right after chow. The Captain assured me that this sort
of thing was definitely against regulations, but he submitted when I
twinkled my little gold leaf under his nose.

Walsh's face appeared on the screen. He was smiling, looking like a fat
pussy cat.

"What is it, Major?" he asked.

"This man Joe," I said. "Can you give me any more on him?"

Walsh's grin grew wider. "Why, Major," he said, "you're not having any
difficulties, are you?"

"None at all," I snapped back. "I just thought I'd be able to find him
a lot sooner if...."

"Take your time, Major," Walsh beamed. "There's no rush at all."

"I thought...."

"I'm sure you can do the job," Walsh cut in. "I wouldn't have sent you
otherwise."

Hell, I was through kidding around. "Look...."

"He's somewhere in the jungle, you know," Walsh said.

I wanted to ram my fist into the screen, right smack up against those
big white teeth. Instead, I cut off the transmission and watched the
surprised look on his face as his screen went blank millions of miles
away.

He blinked at the screen, trying to realize I'd deliberately hung up on
him.

"Polk!" he shouted, "can you hear me?"

I smiled, saw the twisted hatred on his features, and then the screen
on my end went blank, too.

_He's somewhere in the jungle, you know._

I thanked Captain Bransten for his hospitality and went back to my
quarters.

As I saw it, there were two courses for me to follow.

One: I could say the hell with Walsh and Venus. That would mean hopping
the next ship back to Earth.

It would also mean disobeying the direct order of a superior officer.
It might mean demotion, and it might mean getting bounced out of the
Service altogether.

Two: I could assume there really was a guy name Joe somewhere in that
jungle, a Joe separate and apart from the other Joes on this planet, a
trader Joe who knew the Martians well. I could always admit failure, of
course, and return empty handed. Mission not accomplished. Or, I might
really find a guy who was trader Joe.

I made my decision quickly. I wanted to stay in the Service, and
besides Walsh may have been on the level for the first time in his
life. Maybe there was a Joe here who could help us on Mars. If there
was I'd try to find him. It was still a hell of a trick though.

I cursed Walsh again and pushed the buzzer near my bed.

A tall Venusian stepped into the room.

"Joe?" I asked, just to be sure.

"Who else, boss?" he answered.

"I'm trying to locate someone," I said. "I'll need a guide to take me
into the jungle. Can you get me one?"

"It'll cost you, boss," the Venusian said.

"How much?"

"Two cartons of cigarettes at least."

"Who's the guide?" I asked.

"How's the price sound?"

"Fine, fine," I said impatiently. And the Captain had said they were
almost a childish people!

"His name is Joe," the Venusian told me. "Best damn guide on the
planet. Take you anywhere you want to go, do anything you want to do.
Courageous. Doesn't know the meaning of fear. I've known him to...."

"Skip it," I said, cutting the promotion short. "Tell him to show up
around fifteen hundred with a complete list of what we'll need."

The Venusian started to leave.

"And Joe," I said, stopping him at the door, "I hope you're not
overlooking your commission on the deal."

His face broke into a wide grin. "No danger of that, boss," he said.

When he was gone I began figuring out a plan of action. Obviously, I'd
just have to traipse through the jungle looking for a guy named Joe on
a planet where everyone was named Joe. Everybody, at least, but the
Captain, the small garrison attached to the Station, and me.

       *       *       *       *       *

I began wondering why Walsh had gone to so much trouble to get rid of
me. The job, as I saw it, would take a hell of a long time. It seemed
like a silly thing to do, just to get even with a guy for something
that had happened years ago. He surely must have realized that I'd be
back again, sooner or later. Maybe he had another little junket all set
for me.

Or maybe he didn't expect me to come back.

The thought hadn't occurred to me before this, and I began to consider
it seriously. Walsh was no good, rotten clear through. He was failing
at the job of keeping Mars in hand, and he probably realized that a
few more mistakes on his part would mean the end of his career with
Space II. I chuckled as I thought of him isolated in some God-forsaken
place like Space V or Space VII. This probably bothered him a lot, too.
But what probably bothered him more was the fact that I was next in
command. If he were transferred, I'd be in charge of Space II, and I
could understand how much that would appeal to Walsh.

I tried to figure the thing out sensibly, tried to weigh his good
points against his bad. But it all came back to the same thing. A
guy who would deliberately go to sleep on Boiler Watch with a ton of
uranium ready to blast a barracks to smithereens if it wasn't watched,
would deliberately do just about anything.

Sending me off on a wild goose chase after a character named Joe may
have been a gag. But it may have been something a little grimmer than a
gag, and I made up my mind to be extremely careful from here on in.

The guide arrived at fifteen hundred on the dot. He was tall,
elongated, looked almost like all the other Venusians I'd seen so far.

"I understand you need a Grade A guide, sir," he said.

"Are you familiar with the jungle?" I asked him.

"Born and raised there, sir. Know it like the back of my hand."

"Has Joe told you what the payment will be?"

"Yes, sir. A carton and a half of cigarettes."

I thought about Joe deducting his commission and smiled.

"When can we leave?"

"Right away, sir. We won't need much really. I've made a list of
supplies and I can get them in less than an hour. I suggest you wear
light clothing, boots, and a hat."

"Will I need a weapon?"

He looked at me, his eyes faintly amused. "Why, what for, sir?"

"Never mind," I said. "What's your name, by the way?"

He lifted his eyebrows, and his eyes widened in his narrow face. He was
definitely surprised.

"Joe," he said. "Didn't you know?"

       *       *       *       *       *

When we'd been out for a while I discovered why Joe had suggested the
boots and the hat. The undergrowth was often sharp and jagged and it
would have sliced my legs to ribbons were they not protected by the
high boots. The hat kept the strong sun off my head.

Joe was an excellent guide and a pleasant companion. He seemed to be
enjoying a great romp, seemed to love the jungle and take a secret
pleasure in the work he was doing. There were times when I couldn't
see three feet ahead of me. He'd stand stock still for a few minutes,
his head barely moving, his eyes darting from one plant to another.
Then he'd say, "This way," and take off into what looked like more
impenetrable jungle invariably to find a little path leading directly
to another village.

Each village was the same. The natives would come running out of their
huts, tall and blue, shouting, "Cigarettes, Joe? Cigarettes?" It took
me a while to realize they were addressing me and not my guide.

Everybody was Joe. It was one beautiful, happy, joyous round of
stinking, hot jungle. And I wasn't getting any nearer my man. Nor had
I any idea how I was supposed to find him. I began to feel pretty low
about the whole affair.

Joe, on the other hand, enjoyed every moment of the trip. In each
village he greeted the natives cheerfully, told them stories, swapped
gossip and jokes. And when it was time to leave, he would say goodbye
to all his friends and we would plunge into the twisted foliage again.

His spirits were always high and he never failed to say the right thing
that would give a momentary lift to my own depressed state of mind. He
would talk for hours on end as we hacked our way through the jungle.

"I like Venus," he said once. "I would never leave it."

"Have you ever been to Earth?" I asked.

"No," Joe replied. "I like Terrans too, you understand. They are good
for Venus. And they are fun."

"Fun?" I asked, thinking of a particular species of Terran: species
Leonard Walsh.

"Yes, yes," he said wholeheartedly. "They joke and they laugh and ...
well, you know."

"I suppose so," I admitted.

Joe smiled secretly, and we pushed on. I began to find, more and more,
that I had started to talk freely to Joe. In the beginning he had been
just my guide. There had been the strained relationship of employer and
employee. But as the days lengthened into weeks, the formal atmosphere
began to crumble. I found myself telling him all about Earth, about
the people there, about my decision to attend the Academy, the rigid
tests, the grind, even the Moon run. Joe was a good listener, nodding
sympathetically, finding experiences in his own life to parallel my own.

And as our relationship progressed from a casual one to a definitely
friendly one, Joe seemed more enthusiastic than ever to keep up our
grinding pace to find what we were looking for.

Once we stopped in a clearing to rest. Joe lounged on the matted
greenery, his long body stretched out in front of him, the knife
gleaming in his belt. I'd seen him slash his way through thick, tangled
vines with that knife, his long, muscular arms powerfully slicing
through them like strips of silk.

"How far are we from the Station?" I asked.

"Three or four Earth weeks," he replied.

I sighed wearily. "Where do we go from here?"

"There are more villages," he said.

"We'll never find him."

"Possibly," Joe mused, the smile creeping over his face again.

"A wild goose chase. A fool's errand."

"We'd better get started," Joe said simply.

I got to my feet and we started the march again. Joe was still fresh, a
brilliant contrast to me, weary and dejected. Somehow, I had the same
feeling I'd had a long time ago on my sixteenth birthday. One of my
friends had taken me all over the city, finally dropping me off at my
own house where the whole gang was gathered for a surprise party. Joe
reminded me of that friend.

"There's a village ahead," he said, and the grin on his face was large
now, his eyes shining.

       *       *       *       *       *

Something was missing here. Natives. There were no natives rushing out
to greet us. No cries of "Cigarettes? Cigarettes?" I caught up with Joe.

"What's the story?" I whispered.

He shrugged knowingly and continued walking.

And then I saw the ship, nose pointing into space, catching the rays of
the sun like a great silver bullet.

"What...?" I started.

"It's all right," Joe said, smiling.

The ship looked vaguely familiar. I noticed the crest of Space II near
the nose, and a lot of things became clear then. I also saw Walsh
standing near one of the huts, a stun gun in his hand.

"Hello, Major," he called, almost cheerfully. The gun didn't look
cheerful, though. It was pointed at my head.

"Fancy meeting you here, Colonel," I said, trying to match his
joviality. Somehow it didn't quite come off.

Joe was walking beside me, waving at the colonel, beaming all over with
happiness.

"I see you found your man," Walsh said.

I turned rapidly. Joe nodded and kept grinning, a grin that told me he
was getting a big kick out of all this. Like a kid playing a game.

I faced Walsh again. "Okay, what's it all about, pal?"

"Colonel," Walsh corrected me. "You mustn't forget to say Colonel,
_Major_." He emphasized my rank, and he said it with a sort of ruthless
finality.

I waited. I could see he was just busting to tell me how clever he'd
been. Besides, there wasn't much I could do but wait. Not with Walsh
pointing the stun gun at my middle.

"We've come a long way since the Academy, haven't we, Major?"

"If you mean in miles," I said, looking around at the plants, "we sure
have."

Walsh grinned a little. "Always the wit," he said drily. And then the
smile faded from his lips and his eyes took on a hard lustre. "I'm
going to kill you, you know." He said it as if he were saying, "I think
it'll rain tomorrow."

Joe almost clapped his hands together with glee. He was really enjoying
this. Another of those funny Terran games.

"You gave me a powerful handicap to overcome," Walsh said. "I suppose I
should thank you, really."

"You're welcome," I said.

"It wasn't easy living down the disgrace you caused me."

"It was your own damn fault," I said. "You knew what you were doing
when you decided to cork off."

Beside me, Joe chuckled a little, enjoying the game immensely.

"You didn't have to report me," Walsh said.

"No? Maybe I should have forgotten all about it? Maybe I should have
nudged you and served you orange juice? So you could do it again
sometime and maybe blow up the whole damn Academy!"

Walsh was silent for a long time. When he spoke his voice was barely
audible. The heat was oppressive, as if it were concentrated on this
little spot in the jungle, focusing all its penetration on a small,
unimportant drama.

I could hear Joe breathing beside me.

"I'm on my way out," Walsh rasped. "Finished, do you understand?"

"Good," I said. And I meant it.

"This Mars thing. A terrible fix. Terrible."

Beside me, a slight frown crossed Joe's face. Apparently he couldn't
understand the seriousness of our voices. What had happened to the
game, the fun?

"You brought the Mars business on yourself," I told Walsh. "There was
never any trouble before you took command."

"The natives," he practically shouted. "They ... they...."

Joe caught his breath sharply, and I wondered what Walsh was going to
say about the natives. Apparently he'd realized that Joe was a native.
Or maybe Joe's knife had something to do with it.

"What about the natives?" I asked.

"Nothing," Walsh said. "Nothing." He was silent for a while.

"A man of my calibre," he said then, his face grim. "Dealing with
savages." He caught himself again and threw a hasty glance at Joe.
The perplexed frown had grown heavier on Joe's face. He looked at the
colonel in puzzlement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Walsh turned from Joe and raised the stun gun. I wondered if he had yet
realized that Joe was one of a million Joes scattered all over this
planet, that Joe was all the natives on Venus. That Joe was all the
natives everywhere throughout the galaxy. I looked at Walsh's eyes. He
was a sick man, alone with his thoughts in the middle of a stinking
jungle.

"I'm on my way out, Major," he said, "but you won't get a chance to
succeed where I've failed. No. Oh no. I'll see to that."

"And you had to come all the way to Venus to do it?"

"Don't joke," Walsh snapped. "Don't joke, Major. It's not funny. It's
not funny at all."

"It's pretty sad, I'd say."

"You can't afford to say anything," Walsh remarked drily. "You're going
to be dead in a very few minutes."

Joe's eyes widened, and I saw indecision cross his features as he tried
to understand what had happened to the game.

"What'll they say back on Earth when they hear about this?" I asked.

"When will they hear about it? Four, five months from now? By then, my
little trip will have been forgotten. Besides, I'm here on a routine
check. Everyone knows that."

"A routine check on Venus? Mars is your territory."

"One of my men is up here," Walsh said. "That gives me temporary
jurisdiction. At least enough to visit the planet and see how
conditions are. Anyway, I'll be home long before Joe here carries your
body in."

Joe shook his head imperceptibly but Walsh didn't catch it.

"A casualty in the jungle," Walsh continued. "The native will return
to the Station and explain the accident. I'll be back on Earth long
before he reaches there."

"Sure," I said, "nice and simple. You kill me and Joe delivers the news
and takes the rap. Good old sucker Joe."

"That's about enough out of you," Walsh said.

"Go ahead, Colonel," I shouted. "Pull the trigger. Then run off and
leave Joe to...."

"I said that's enough out of you!" Walsh shouted.

I turned to face Joe. His mouth was drawn across his face in a tight
emotionless line. He stepped in front of me and stared at Walsh.

"Get out of the way," Walsh commanded.

Joe shook his head slowly. "This is not what you told me. A friend, you
said. A surprise. You said you wanted to...."

"Get out of the way, you damned sav...."

With one swift movement Joe leaped forward. The knife gleamed in his
hand and there was momentary panic on Walsh's face.

The stun gun snapped up. It crackled once in the Venusian jungle, its
blast blinding me for a moment. It shuddered through Joe's left arm and
paralyzed it momentarily.

But the hand with the knife was hacking away at Walsh's throat, the
blood dripping down over the silver planet on the collar of his tunic.

I made my report to Bransten.

I told him the body of Colonel Leonard Walsh had been discovered in the
jungle. He was barely alive when he'd been found. I'd administered aid
but his knife wounds had proved to be fatal. He died shortly after I
found him.

"Awful," the captain said, "awful."

I nodded sympathetically.

"Did he say anything? Did he give you any idea? I mean, did he say who
did it?"

"Yes," I said. "He told me who murdered him."

We were standing near the platform of my ship, waiting for them to
prepare for blastoff.

"Well who, Major?" he asked. "Who did he say did it?"

"Joe," I explained. "A native named Joe."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Planet Named Joe, by S. A. Lombino

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A PLANET NAMED JOE ***

***** This file should be named 63890.txt or 63890.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/8/9/63890/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
