The Project Gutenberg EBook of Strange Exodus, by Robert Abernathy

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Strange Exodus

Author: Robert Abernathy

Release Date: December 1, 2020 [EBook #63936]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STRANGE EXODUS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            STRANGE EXODUS

                          By ROBERT ABERNATHY

           Gigantic, mindless, the Monsters had come out of
            interstellar space to devour Earth. They gnawed
            at her soil, drank deep of her seas. Where, on
           this gutted cosmic carcass, could humanity flee?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Westover got a shock when he stumbled onto the monster, for all that he
knew one had been through here.

He had been following the high ground toward the hills, alternately
splashing through waist-deep water and climbing onto comparatively dry
knolls. To right and left of him was the sullen noise of the river in
flood, and behind him, too, the rising water he had barely escaped. The
night was overcast, the moon a faint disk of glow that left river and
hills and even the mud underfoot invisible.

He had not sought in his mind for the flood's cause, but had merely
taken it numbly as part of the fury and confusion of a world in ruin.
Anyway, he was dead tired out on his feet.

He sensed more than saw the looming wall before him, but he thought
it the bare ledge-rock of a stripped hillside until he stepped into a
small pot-hole and lurched forward, and his outflung hands sank into
the slime that covered a surface faintly, horrifyingly resilient.

He recoiled as if seared, and retreated, slithering in the muck. For
moments his mind was full of dark formless panic; then he took a firm
hold on himself and tried to comprehend the situation.

Nothing was distinguishable beyond a few yards, but his mind's eye
could see the rest--the immense slug-like shape that extended in
ponderous repose across the river valley, its head and tail spilling
over the hills on either side, five miles apart. The beast was
quiescent until morning--sleeping, if such things slept.

And that explained the flood; the monster's body had formed an
unbreakable dam behind which the river had been steadily piling up in
those first hours of night; if it did not move until dawn, the level
would be far higher then.

Westover stood motionless in the blackness; how long, he did not know.
He was hardly aware of the water that covered his feet, crept over his
ankles, and swirled halfway to his knees. Only the emergence of the
moon through a rift of the cloud blanket brought him awake; its dim
light gleamed all around on a great sheet of water, unbroken save for
scattered black hummocks--crests of knolls like that on which he stood,
all soon to be hidden by the rising flood.

For a moment he knew despair. The way back was impassable, and the way
ahead was blocked by the titanic enemy.

Then the impersonal will that had driven him implacably two days and
nights without stopping came to his rescue. Westover plodded forward,
pressed his shrinking body against the slimy, faintly warm surface of
the monster's foot, and sought above him with upstretched hands--found
holds, and began to climb with a strength he had not known was left in
him.

The moonlight's fading again was merciful as he climbed the sheer,
slippery face of the foot; but he could hear the wash and chuckle of
the flood below. His tired brain told him treacherously: "I'm already
asleep--this is a nightmare." Once, listening to that insidious voice,
he slipped and for instants hung dizzily by his hands, and for some
minutes after he had found a new foothold merely clung panting with
pounding heart.

Some time after he had found courage to resume the climb, he dragged
himself, gasping and quivering, to comparative safety on the broad
shelf that marked the rim of the foot. Above him lay the great black
steep that rose to the summit of the monster's humped back, a mountain
to be climbed. Westover felt poignantly that his exhausted body could
not make that ascent and face the long and dangerous descent beyond,
which he had to make before dawn ... but not now ... not now....

       *       *       *       *       *

He lay in a state between waking and dreaming, high on the monster's
side; and it seemed that the colossal body moved, swelling and
sighing--but he knew they did not breathe as backboned animals do.
Westover had been one of the men who, in the days when humanity was
still fighting, had accumulated quite a store of knowledge about the
enemy--the enemy that was brainless and toolless, but that was simply
too vast for human intelligence and weapons to defeat....

Westover no longer saw the murky moonlight, the far faint glitter of
the flood or the slope of the living mountain. He saw, as he had seen
from a circling jet plane, an immense tree of smoke that rose and
expanded under the noonday sun, creamy white above and black and oily
below, and beneath the black cloud something that writhed and flowed
sluggishly in a cyclopean death agony.

That picture dissolved, and was replaced by the face of a man--one who
might now be alive or dead, elsewhere in the chaos of a desolated
planet. It was an ordinary face, roundish, spectacled, but etched now
by tragedy; the voice that went with it was flat, unemotional, pedantic.

"There are so many of them, and we've destroyed so few--and to kill
those few took our mightiest weapons. Examination of the ones that have
been killed discloses the reason why ordinary projectiles and bombs and
poisons are ineffective against them--apart, that is, from the chief
reason of sheer size. The creatures are so loosely organized that a
local injury hardly affects the whole. In a sense, each one of them is
a single cell--like the slime molds, the Earthly life forms that most
resemble them.

"That striking resemblance, together with the fact that they chose
Earth to attack out of all the planets of the Solar System, shows they
must have originated on a world much like this. But while on Earth the
slime molds are the highest reticular organisms, and the dominant life
is all multicellular, on the monsters' home world conditions must have
favored unicellular growth. Probably as a result of this unspecialized
structure, the monsters have attained their great size and perhaps for
the same reason they have achieved what even intelligent cellular life
so far hasn't--liberation from existence bound to one world's surface,
the conquest of space. They accomplished it not by invention but by
adaptation, as brainless life once crawled out of the sea to conquer
the dry land.

"The monsters who have descended on Earth must represent the end result
of a long evolution completed in space itself. They are evidently
deep-space beings, able to propel themselves from planet to planet and
from star to star in search of food, guided by instinct to suns and
worlds like ours. Descending on such a planet, they move across its
surface systematically ingesting all edible material--all life not
mobile enough to avoid their march. They are like caterpillars that
overrun a planet and strip it of its leaves, before moving on to the
next.

"Man is a highly mobile species, so our direct casualties of this
invasion have been very light and will continue to be. But when the
monsters have finished with Earth, there will be no vegetation left
for man's food, no houses, no cities, none of the fixed installations
of civilization, and the end will be far more terrible than if we were
all devoured by the monsters."

       *       *       *       *       *

Westover awoke, feeling himself bathed by the cold sweat of
nightmare--then he realized that a misty rain had wetted his face and
sogged his clothes. That, and the sleep he had had, refreshed him and
made his mind clearer than it had been for days, and he remembered that
he could not sleep but had to go on, searching with a hope that would
not die for some miraculously spared refuge where civilization and
science might yet exist, where there would be the means to realize his
idea for stopping the monsters.

He sat up, eyes searching the sky for a sign to tell him how long he
had slept. Low on the western horizon he found the faint glow that told
of the moon's setting; and in the east a stronger light was already
struggling through the clouds and mist, becoming every moment less
tenuous and illusory, more the bitter reality of the breaking day.

Even as Westover began frantically climbing, out of that lightening
sky the hopelessness of his effort pressed down on him. With dawn the
monster would begin to move, to crawl eastward impelled by the same dim
phototropic urge which must guide these things out of the interstellar
depths to Sun-type stars. All of them had crept endlessly eastward
around the Earth, gutting the continents and churning the sea bottoms,
and by now whatever was left of human civilization must be starving
beyond the Arctic circle, or aboard ships at sea. The hordes that
still lived and wandered over the once populous fertile lands, like
this--would not live long.

For a man like Westover, who had been a scientist, it was not the
prospect of death that was most crushing, but the death blow to his
human pride, the star-storming pride of mind and will--defeated by
sheer bulk and mindless hunger.

Near the crest of the monster's back, he stumbled and fell hands and
knees on the shagreen-roughness of the skin; at first he thought only
that an attack of dizziness had made him fall, then he realized that
the surface beneath him had shifted. Unmistakably even in the misty
dawn-light, the hills and valleys of the rugose back were changing
shape, as the vast protoplasmic mass below crawled, flowed beneath its
integument. In slow peristaltic motion the waves marched eastward,
toward the monster's head.

He could stay where he was unharmed, of course. On the monster's back,
of all places, he had nothing to fear from it or from others of its
kind. But he knew with desperate clarity that by nightfall, when the
beast became still once more, exhaustion and growing hunger would have
made him unable to descend. As he lay where he had fallen, he felt that
weakness creeping over him, no longer held in check by the will that
had kept him doggedly plodding forward.

Again he lay half conscious, in a lethargy that unchecked must grow
steadily deeper until death. Isolated thoughts floated through his
head. It occurred to him that he was now ideally located to conduct
the experiments necessary to prove his theory of how to destroy the
monsters--if only someone had had the foresight to build a biological
laboratory on the monster's back. Of course the rolling motion would
create special problems of technique.... Idiocy.... Once more he seemed
to glimpse Sutton's face, as the biologist calmly made that grisly
report to the President's Committee on Extermination.... Sutton's
prediction had been a hundred percent correct. The monsters' hunger
knew no halt until they had absorbed into themselves all the organic
material on the world which was their prey.... And men must starve, as
he was starving now....

       *       *       *       *       *

With a struggle Westover roused himself, first sitting up, then swaying
to his feet, frowning with the effort to look sanely at the terrible
inspiration that had come to him. The cloud blanket was breaking up,
the sun already high, beating down on the naked moving plateau on which
the man stood. The idea born in him seemed to stand that light, even to
expand into hope.

Fingers shaking, he unhitched the light ax from his belt and began to
hack with feverish industry at the monster's crusted hide.

The scaly, weathered epidermis seemed immeasurably thick. But at last
he had chopped through it, reached the softer protoplasm beneath.
Clawing and hewing in the hole he had made, he tore out heavy slabs of
the monster's flesh.

A ripple that did not belong to the crawling motion ran over the
thing's surface round about. Westover laughed wildly with a sudden
sense of power. He, the insignificant human mite, had made the
miles-long beast twitch like a flea-bitten dog.

The analogy was pat; like a flea, he had lodged on a larger animal and
was about to nourish himself from it. The slabs of flesh he had cut off
were gray and unappetizing, but he knew from the studies he had helped
Sutton make that the monsters, extraterrestrial though they were, were
in the basic chemistry of proteins, fats and carbohydrates one with man
or the amoeba, and therefore might be--food.

His matches were dry in their water-proof case; he made a smoldering
fire from the loose fibrous scale of the monster's back, and half an
hour later was replete. Either the long fast, or involuntary revulsion,
or perhaps merely the motion of the creature brought on nausea, but he
fought it sternly back and succeeded in keeping his strange meal down.
Then he was tormented by thirst. It was some time, though, before he
could bring himself to drink the colorless fluid that had collected in
the wound he had inflicted on the monster.

Thus began for him a weird existence--the life of a parasite, of a flea
on a dog. The monster crawled by day and rested by night; strengthened,
the man could have left it then, but somehow night after night he did
not. It wasn't, he argued with himself sometimes in the days when he
lay torpidly drowsing, lulled by the long sway, arms over his head to
protect him from the sun's baking, merely that he was chained to the
only source of food he knew in all the world--not just that he was
developing a flea's psychology. He was a man and a scientist, and he
was conducting an experiment.... His life on the monster's back was
proving something, something of vast importance for man, the extinct
animal--but for increasingly longer periods of time he could not
remember what it was....

There came a morning, though, when he remembered.

[Illustration: _Thus began for him a weird existence--the life of a
parasite, of a flea on a dog._]

       *       *       *       *       *

He woke with the sun's warmth on his body and the realization of
something amiss trickling through his head. It was a little while
before he recognized the wrongness, and when he did he sat bolt upright.

The sun was already up, and the monster should have begun once more its
steady, ravenous march to the east. But there was no motion; the great
living expanse lay still around him. He wondered wildly if it was dead.

Presently, though, he felt a faint shuddering and lift beneath his
feet, and heard far stifled mutterings and sighs.

Westover's mind was beginning to function again; it was as though the
cessation of the rock and sway had exorcised the lethargy that had lain
upon him. He knew now that he had been almost insane for the time he
had passed here, touched by the madness that takes hermits and men lost
in deserts or oceans. And his was a stranger solitude than any of those.

Now he listened strainingly to the portentous sounds of change in the
monster's vitals, and in a flash of insight knew them for what they
were. The scientists had found, in the burst bodies of the Titans
that had been killed by atomic bombs, the answer to the riddle of
these creatures' crossing of space: great vacuoles, pockets of gas
that in the living animal could be under exceedingly high pressures,
and that could be expelled to drive the monster in flight like a
reaction engine. Rocket propulsion, of course, was nothing new to
zoology; it was developed ages before man, by the squids and by those
odd degenerate relatives of the vertebrates that are called tunicates
because of their gaudy cellulose-plastic armor....

The monster on which Westover had been living as a parasite was
generating gases within itself, preparing to leave the ravished Earth.
That was the meaning of its gargantuan belly rumblings. And they meant
further that he must finally leave it--now or never--or be borne aloft
to die gasping in the stratosphere.

Hurriedly the man scrambled to the highest eminence of the back and
stood looking about; and what he saw brought him to the brink of
despair. For all around lay blue water, waves dancing and glinting in
the fresh breeze; and sniffing the air he recognized the salt tang
of the sea. While he slept the monster had crept beyond the coast
line, and lay now in what to it was shallow water--fifty or a hundred
fathoms. Back the way it had come, a headland was visible, mockingly,
hopelessly distant.

Of course--the great beast would crawl into the sea, which would float
its bloated bulk and enable it to accelerate and take flight. It would
never have been able to lift itself into the air from the dry land.

He should have foreseen that and made his escape in time. Now that
he had solved the problem of human survival.... But the bright ocean
laughed at him, sparkling away wave beyond rolling wave, and beyond
that blue headland could be only a land made desert, where men become
beasts fought crazily over the last morsels of food. He had lost track
of the days he had been on the monster's back, but the rape of Earth
must be finished now. He had no doubt that the things would depart
as they had come into the Solar System--in that close, seemingly
one-willed swarm that Earth's astronomers had at first taken for a
comet. If this one was leaving, the rest no doubt were too.

Westover sat for a space with head in hands, hearing the faint
continuing murmurs from below. And he remembered the voices.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had been hearing them again as he awoke--the distant muffled voices
whose words he could not make out, not the small close ones that
sometimes in the hot middays had spoken clearly in his ear and even
called his name. The latter had to be, as he had vaguely accepted them
even then, illusions--but the others--with his new clarity he was
suddenly sure that they had been real.

And a wild, white light of hope blazed in him, and he flung himself
flat on the rough surface, beat on it with bare fists and shouted:
"Help! Here I am! Help!"

He paused to listen with fierce intentness, and heard nothing but the
faint eructations deep inside the monster.

Then he sprang to his feet, gripping his hand-ax, and ran panting to
the place where he had dug for food. His excavations tended to close
and heal overnight; now he went to work with vicious strokes enlarging
the latest one, hacking and tearing it deeper and deeper.

He was almost hidden in the cavity when a shadow fell across him from
behind. He whirled, for there could be no shadows on the monster's back.

A man stood watching him calmly--an elderly man in rusty black
clothing, leaning on a stick. The staff, the snowy beard, and something
that smoldered behind the benign eyes, gave him the look of an ancient
prophet.

"Who are you?" asked Westover, breathlessly but almost without surprise.

"I am the Preacher," the old man said. "The Lord hath sent me to save
you. Arise, my son, and follow me."

Westover hesitated. "I'm not just imagining you?" he appealed.
"Somebody else has really found the answer?"

The Preacher's brows knitted faintly, but then his look turned to
benevolent understanding. "You have been alone too long here. Come with
me--I will take you to the Doctor."

Westover was still not sure that the other was more than one of the
powerful specters of childhood--the Preacher, the Doctor, no doubt the
Teacher next--risen to rob him of his last shreds of sanity. But he
nodded in childlike obedience, and followed.

When, a few hundred yards nearer the monster's head, the other halted
at a black rent in the rugose hide, the mouth of a burrow descending
into utter blackness--Westover knew that both the Preacher and his own
wild hope were real.

"Down here. Into the belly of Leviathan," said the old man solemnly,
and Westover nodded this time with alacrity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The crawling descent through the twisting, Stygian burrow had much
that ought to belong to a journey into Hell.... More than that, no
demonologist's imagination could have conceived without experiencing
the sheer horror of the yielding beslimed walls that seemed every
moment squeezing in to trap them unspeakably. The air was warm and
rank with the familiar heavy sweetish odor of the monster's colorless
blood....

Then, as he knew it must, a light glimmered ahead, the sinus widened,
and Westover climbed to his feet and stood, weak-kneed still, staring
at a chamber carved in the veritable belly of Leviathan. The floor
underfoot was firm, as was the wall his shaking fingers tested.
Dazzled, he saw tools leaning against the walls, spades, crowbars,
axes, and a half-dozen people, men and women in rough grimy clothing,
who stood watching him with lively interest.

The Preacher stood beside him, breathing hard and mopping his forehead.
But he brushed aside the deferential offers of the others: "No--I will
take him to the Doctor myself. All of you must hurry now to close the
shaft."

There was another tunnel to be crawled through, but that one was
firm-walled as the room they left behind. They emerged into a larger
cavern, that like the first was lit--only now did the miracle of it
obtrude itself in his dazed mind--by fluorescent tubes, and filled with
equipment that gleamed glass and metal. Over an apparatus with many
fluid-dripping trays, like an air-conditioning device, bent a lone man.

"Is it working?" inquired the Preacher.

"It's working," the other answered without looking up from the
adjustment he was making. Bubbles were rising in the fluid that filled
the trays, rising and bursting, rising and bursting with a curiously
fascinating monotony. The subtly tense attitudes of the two initiates
told Westover better than words that there was something hugely
important in the success of whatever magic was producing those bubbles.

The thaumaturge straightened, wiping his hands on his trousers as he
turned with a satisfied grin on his round, spectacled face--then both
he and Westover froze in dumbfounded recognition.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sutton was first to recover. He said quietly, "Welcome aboard the ark,
Bill. You're just in time--I think we're about to hoist anchor." His
quick eyes studied Westover's face, and he gestured toward a packing
box against the wall opposite his apparatus. "Sit down. You've been
through the mill."

"That's right," Westover sat down dizzily. "I've been aboard your ark
for some time now, though. Only as an ectoparasite."

"It's high time you joined the endoparasites. Lucky you scratched
around enough up there to create repercussions we could feel down here.
You got the same idea, then?"

"I stumbled onto it," Westover admitted. "I was wandering across
country--my plane crashed on the way back from that South American
bug hunt dreamed up by somebody who'd been reading Wells' _War of the
Worlds_. I think my pilot went nuts; you could see too much of the
destruction from up there.... But I got out in one piece and started
walking--looking for some place with people and facilities that could
try out my method of killing the monsters. I thought--I still think--I
had a sure-fire way to do that--but I didn't realize then that it was
too late to think of killing them off."

Sutton nodded thoughtfully. "It was too late--or too early, perhaps.
We'll have to talk that over."

Westover finished the brief account of his coming to dwell on the
monster's back. The other grinned happily.

"You began with the practice, where I worked out the theory first."

"I haven't got so far with the theory," said Westover, "but I think
I've got the main outlines. Until the monsters came, man was a parasite
on the face of the Earth. Fundamentally, parasitism--on the green
plants and their by-products--was our way of life, as of all animals
from the beginning. But the monsters absorbed into themselves all the
plant food and even the organic material in the soil. So we have only
one way out--to transfer our parasitism to the only remaining food
source--the monsters themselves.

"The monsters almost defeated us, because of their two special
adaptations of extreme size and ability to cross space. But man has
always won the battle of adaptations before, because he could improvise
new ones as the need arose. The greatest crisis humanity ever faced
called for the most radical innovation in our way of life."

"Very well put," approved Sutton. "Except that you make it sound easy.
By the time I'd worked it out like that, things were already in
such a turmoil that putting it into effect was the devil's own job.
About the only ones I could find to help me were the Preacher and his
people. They have the faith that moves mountains, that has made this
self-moving mountain inhabitable."

"It is inhabitable?" Westover's question reflected no doubt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sutton gestured at the bubbling device behind him. "That thing is
making air now, which we're going to need when the monster's in space.
It was when we were still trying to find a poison for the beasts that I
hit on the catalyst that makes their blood give up its oxygen--that's
its blood flowing through the filters. We've got an electric generator
running by tapping the monster's internal gas pressure. There are
problems left before we'll be fully self-sufficient here--but the
monster is so much like us in fundamental makeup that its body contains
all the elements human life needs too."

"Then," Westover glanced appreciatively around, "it looks like the main
hazard is claustrophobia."

"Don't worry about a cave-in. We're surrounded by solid cystoid
tissue. But," Sutton's voice took on a graver note, "there may be
other psychological dangers. I don't think all our people--there are
fifty-one, fifty-two of us now--realize yet that this colony isn't just
a temporary expedient. Human history hasn't had such a turning-point
since men first started chipping stone. Spengler's _Mensch als
Raubtier_--if he ever existed--has to be replaced by the _Mensch als
Schmarotzer_, and the adjustment may come hard. We've got to plan
for the rest of our lives--and our children's and our children's
children's--as parasites inside this monster and whatever others we can
manage to--infect--when they're clustered again in space."

"For the future," put in the Preacher, who had watched benignly the
biologists' reunion, "the Lord will provide, even as He did unto Jonah
when he cried to Him out of the belly of the fish."

"Amen," agreed Sutton. But the gaze he fixed on Westover was oddly
troubled. "Speaking of the future brings up the question of the idea
you mentioned--your monster-killing scheme."

       *       *       *       *       *

Westover flexed his hands involuntarily, like one who has been too
long enforcedly idle. In terse eager sentences he outlined for Sutton
the plan that had burned in him during his bitter wandering over
the face of the ruined land. It would be very easy to accomplish
from an endoparasite's point of vantage, merely by isolating from
the creature's blood over a long period enough of some potent
secretion--hormone, enzyme or the like--to kill when suddenly
reintroduced into the system. "Originally I thought we could accomplish
the same thing by synthesis--but this way will be simpler."

"Beautifully simple." Sutton smiled wryly. "So much so that I wish
you'd never thought of it."

Westover stared. "Why?"

"Describing your plan, you sounded almost ready to put it into effect
on the spot."

"No! Of course I realize--Well, I see what you mean--I think." Westover
was crestfallen.

Sutton smiled faintly.

"I think you do, Bill. To survive, we've got to be _good_ parasites.
That means before all, for the coming generations, that we keep our
numbers down. A good parasite doesn't destroy or even overtax its host.
We don't want to follow the sorry example of such unsuccessful species
as the bugs of bubonic plague or typhoid; we'll do better to model
ourselves on the humble tapeworm.

"Your idea is dangerous for the same reason. The monsters probably
spend thousands of years in interstellar space; during that time
they'll be living exclusively on their fat--the fuel they stored on
Earth, and so will we. We've got a whole new history of man ahead
of us, under such changed conditions that we can't begin to predict
what turns it may take. There's a very great danger that men will
proliferate until they kill their hosts. But imagine a struggle for
_Lebensraum_ when all the living space there is is a few thousand
monsters capable of supporting a very limited number of people
each--with your method giving an easy way to destroy these little
worlds our descendants will inhabit. It's too much dynamite to have
around the house."

Westover bowed his head, but he had caught a curiously expectant glint
in Sutton's eyes as he spoke. He thought, and his face lightened.
"Suppose we work out a way to record my idea, one that can't be
deciphered by anyone unintelligent enough to be likely to misuse it. A
riddle for our descendants--who should have use for it some day."

At last Sutton smiled. "That's better. You've thought it through to
the end, I see.... This phase of our history won't last forever.
Eventually, the monsters will come to another planet not too unlike
Earth, because it's on such worlds they prey. A tapeworm can cross the
Sahara desert in the intestine of a camel--"

His voice was drowned in a vast hissing roar. An irresistible pressure
distorted the walls of the chamber and scythed its occupants from their
feet. Sutton staggered drunkenly almost erect, fought his way across
the tilting floor to make sure of his precious apparatus. He turned
back toward the others, bracing himself and shouting something; then,
knowing his words lost in the thunder, gestured toward the Earth they
were leaving, a half-regretful, half-triumphant farewell.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Strange Exodus, by Robert Abernathy

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STRANGE EXODUS ***

***** This file should be named 63936.txt or 63936.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/9/3/63936/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
