ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of Poison Planet, by William Oberfield

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Poison Planet

Author: William Oberfield

Release Date: December 05, 2020 [EBook #63945]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POISON PLANET ***




                             POISON PLANET

                         by WILLIAM OBERFIELD

            ... It was only a muffled gun-shot, deep in the
          rank, fetid jungles of Venus--a single bullet from
             the gun of the gaunt, blazing-eyed man called
            Heinie. But it plunged the crew of the VENUS I
            into a Hell from which there was no return....

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Planet Stories January 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Captain James McBride didn't know exactly what to make of it at first.
The first Earthmen ever to set foot on Venus, he and his crew had come
armed to the teeth, fully prepared to fight wild elephants, giant
tigers, pre-historic monsters or anything an imaginative mind might
dream up.

When they found evidence of absolutely no danger at all they stood
around with their heavy weapons and felt mighty foolish. The only signs
of animal life were the small creatures that scampered right up to the
men and chattered at them, unafraid, and birds more evident by sound
than by sight. There were no trails made by giant animals, no heavy,
frightening sounds in the jungle about them. Only a misty, drowsing
calm.

The mist was always there, they were to find out later, steaming up
from the wet ground by day and condensing in a blanket of life-giving
water by night. Otherwise, Venus resembled mildly tropical Earth
without storm and tempest. The lack of these made one think of thunder
and lightning as some unseen, unknown entity bound to Earth alone in
chains of gravity.

The only really unpleasant note was the condition of the ship in which
they had come. The underside was a mass of twisted steel and buckled
plates, where it had come down considerably harder than it had ever
been intended to come down. It was something that could never take to
space again, even if the "H" tanks hadn't been torn loose to gush out
their contents.

Communication with Earth was out. A transmitter small enough to fit the
ship and yet powerful enough to breach millions of miles of space, as
well as penetrate two atmospheres, just wasn't made. The expedition was
on its own.

The orders were conditional. If possible, they were to set up an
outpost on Venus, as others had done several years before on Mars.
Consisting mainly of scientists, the crew was to find out all it could
about the new world. In one year the second ship would follow, bringing
engineers and laborers. The scientists were to have, by that time, the
information required to form the first colony quickly, wisely, and
safely.

If confronted with insurmountable obstacles, they were to return at
once to Earth with whatever information they might have as to the
nature of the obstacles.

McBride grinned in spite of his regret over the loss of his ship and
looked at the wreckage. That sort of made the orders unconditional.

Things could have been worse, he thought. Not one of the ten men in the
expedition had been lost or even badly injured. And, Venus being the
land of plenty that it had turned out to be, it was beginning to look
as if the stay here would be a pleasant one.

He was just starting to get some of his old spunk back when Jeff
Flaunders came up to him with a worried frown on his face.

Because of the limited space aboard the ship, Flaunders was a
combination of several men, as were most of the others. Specially
trained for the expedition, he handled anything that went under the
heading of botany, biology or zoology.

Now he was looking worried.

"You look a lot like bad news," McBride said as Flaunders drew near.
"Might have known there'd be a catch to this world."

"More than a catch," Flaunders said. "I hope none of the men has eaten
anything native to Venus."

McBride shook his head. "They haven't if they've followed orders. I
told them not to touch anything until you had made a report." He looked
at the other questioningly. "Poison?"

"We brought twelve white rats and two monkeys along for experimental
purposes," Flaunders said. "Now we have only six rats. Each of the
others we fed a different kind of native fruit or meat. That was about
five hours ago. In the past hour they've gone into convulsions one
after another. Seemed to go blind, too. Died within minutes."

"You tried it on just the six rats and not the monkeys?" McBride asked,
and got a nod from Flaunders. "Then that's just six things tested.
Maybe something edible will turn up yet."

"Small chance." Flaunders was positive. "Thompson used a little of his
chemistry and found a substance he couldn't identify, not only in the
stuff we fed the rats but in twenty-some other plants. He even found
it in the flesh of the animals we caught. That makes it pretty certain
that it will be found in everything. When the rats died we pegged that
substance as the poison.

"What to do about it is another question. Since it's entirely new to
us it would probably take years to find a way to neutralize it, and it
plays such an integral part in the structure of everything on Venus
that we'd have one sweet time trying to completely draw it out. Anyway,
a lot of needed lab equipment was smashed in the wreck. That makes it
even more of a problem."

McBride listened, frowned and rubbed his cheek. "In other words, we
might as well give up any idea of living off the fat of the land."

"That's about the size of it," Flaunders agreed. "Our best bet, the way
things stand now, would be to try and have a garden going before our
supply of food runs out."

"Check," said McBride. "But the seed was brought along just in case the
soil and climate should prove suitable for planting. What do you make
of that?"

"Climate ought to be just about perfect," Flaunders grunted. "As to the
soil, Thompson and I will check on that right away."

       *       *       *       *       *

In another day a few things had been learned. There was now no doubt
about the poisonous nature of Venus. The infuriating thing about it
was that the creatures native to Venus thrived about them on food that
would put out the lights for good for any Earth-born animal.

But that was not quite so hard to take when they found that the soil
was suitable for Earth crops. That left nothing to get excited about.

So they thought, until Venus turned stubborn.

No one knew exactly how stubborn Venus could get until the garden
location was being cleared of weeds. They had gone over about fifty
feet of the clearing, working earnestly and not bothering to look back,
when one of the men--a lanky individual called Henry Higgins--turned to
look back, put one grimy fist on his hip, hunched his shoulders, stuck
out his chin and hollered, "Damn!"

The others turned and looked surprised. Not that Higgins' well-known
exaggerative ways any longer surprised them, but what Higgins was
looking at might surprise anyone, including the botanist in Flaunders.

The eight-or-ten feet of ground directly behind the men was clear of
weeds. But at the far edge of this cleared space little green shoots
were thrusting inquisitive noses above the ground. Beyond these were
one-inch plants, then two-inch, and four and six and eight, on up. They
formed a slope up to the edge of the clearing.

"Damn!" Higgins said again, and tossed away his spade.

Someone laughed uncertainly. The others scratched their heads, cast
blank stares at one another and forgot how to keep their mouths closed.

"Just what in blazes do you make of that?" McBride asked of Flaunders.

Flaunders could be quite an optimist when he wanted to; he was one of
those rare persons who seem to grow stronger with each failure. At
least on the surface.

"Only what I see," he replied, not willing to show consternation.
"Amazingly rapid growth, but they're still only weeds. It's just going
to take a little applied science."

"Maybe." McBride didn't like it. "But I've done a little farming in my
time; know what it is to worry a chunk of farmland out of the raw. And
the nature of Earth is dead compared to this."

"Bunk!" Flaunders scoffed. "Work, certainly. But we'll be eating fresh
corn in two months!"

McBride looked around, seeing little you wouldn't see on Earth. What's
wrong with me? he thought. It's my place to keep the spirits of the
men up, not to dampen them. Flaunders is right, of course. This
stuff is still only vegetation, even if it _is_ styled after Jack's
beanstalk. Jack chopped down the beanstalk and killed the giant. Our
giant is the threat of starvation, but killing it is still a matter of
stalk-chopping. If Jack could do it so can we.

       *       *       *       *       *

It started out like that. Two weeks of hacking and digging, of
specially prepared weed-killer and the aid of every trick known to
science, and there was a strip of dark, rich ground all ready for
planting. It looked like things were really beginning to roll. They did
roll. Right up against a blank wall.

A few days after the planting, Flaunders was looking at a handful
of black spider-things and swearing under his breath. The shriveled
spider-things were seeds brought from Earth. They were shot through
with hairlike roots, and that was the strange thing. It was strange
because the roots were not their own.

It took several more days for Flaunders to understand. When he did he
took on an attitude faintly remindful of a cornered rat. In a spot, but
frustrated to fighting anger. The ship had contained enough food for
only about two months to begin with, and more than two weeks had now
come out of that. Starvation was becoming a very real possibility in
his mind.

"We're up against something big," he said, peeved with himself for
having to admit it. "We're fighting millions of years of evolution."

McBride sensed something disturbing in the other's voice. Maybe a trace
of fear. "What do you mean?" he said.

Flaunders enlarged. "A very long time ago a war started here on Venus.
It was a war among plants. You find the same thing on Earth, too, but
not on this scale. There must have been certain 'aggressive' plants
which threatened to force out all others. The others, in order to
survive, had to evolve into something even more deadly to other plants.
Once started, it had to keep going. Now, after millions of years,
they've evolved into things capable, of vicious little tricks you'd
never be able to count.

"What happened to our seeds is one of them. Some of the roots extend
into microscopic threads hardly more than streaks of single molecules.
You can't dig them out and they escape all the ordinary weed-fighting
methods. One of their cute little tricks is to attach themselves to
other plants and seeds and absorb them, strangely enough not harming
their own species. Add to that the rapid growth, almost comparable to
the motion of the minute hand of a clock, and planting anything from
Earth among them is something like throwing a housecat into a den of
wild lions."

"A very pretty picture," McBride groaned. "We can't go back to Earth
for a year, everything on Venus is poison and we have less than two
months' supply of food. Now you as much as admit that there will be no
garden. I'm suddenly getting a headache."

"I didn't say we had failed," Flaunders said sharply. "I'm never going
to. By thunder, we'll beat this hellhole if it takes every minute of
our time!"

That was a sane enough statement. They had the seeds and they had the
soil. With good health and the will to work, what was to stop them?

Only weeds.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Only weeds," McBride said ten weeks later. "They couldn't be
responsible for this! Ten weeks of breaking our backs and losing our
minds, and you can't even tell that we've done anything. It must be a
nightmare!"

Flaunders was a man all washed out, a man badly stung. How hard for an
optimist to face defeat!

"Ten years," he said reflectively. "That's what it seems like. Thirteen
since we crashed. Lucky number."

"A week since we've had anything to eat," said McBride. "Or has it been
two? Anyway, it's too late to think about a garden. And if you and
Thompson can't find a way to make this stuff fit to eat--" There was no
need to complete that sentence.

Flaunders said nothing, seemingly absorbed in thought.

"Why don't you stop trying?" McBride said suddenly.

Flaunders looked up as if he thought he hadn't heard right. "Why in the
world should I do that?"

"Because as long as you try the rest of us have hope." McBride's sunken
cheeks burned red. He was somehow ashamed of his thoughts, but still
determined to voice them. "Without that hope we wouldn't go on waiting
and starving. There wouldn't be anything to wait for. Maybe there isn't
anyway. Do you actually think there is any hope?"

Flaunders stared for a moment, considering the suicide tendency behind
McBride's words. He turned away, hardly disturbed by the morbid idea.
"I don't really know," he replied at last. "I don't even think any
more. I just keep going like an automaton, not hoping and not giving
up. That's my responsibility. Mine and Thompson's. Maybe we will find a
way and maybe not. The only thing to do is to keep dogging it till we
drop."

"No need to blame yourself for that," McBride said. "God knows you
tried. With all the generators of this and that, the sprayers and fires
and wires strung all over, we looked like we were fighting a real war
instead of one against plants."

Flaunders snorted. "A hell of a lot of good it did. We destroyed
the weeds and the properties of the soil with them. By the time we
reactivated the soil the weed seeds had come on the wind. Same thing
all over again. How much good did the hothouse do us, even with all the
filters? Nearly microscopic seed came in on our clothing, in our hair.
I'd rather fight elephants or pre-historic monsters. At least they're
big enough to see and slow enough to cope with."

These were two skeletons, speaking of starvation under a tree loaded
down with plump, ripe fruit, watching small animals scamper. The easy
way out was all around them. They thought about it.

All together there had been ten men. Now ten skeletons. Now ten
scarecrows with faces unshaven and dirty, with clothing hanging in
tattered strips and extra holes punched in belts. They were slowly
starving to death in the Garden of Paradise, in the land of plenty. And
nothing, you would think, could be worse than that.

But there was something worse. It came shortly. The real Hell started
with a gun.

       *       *       *       *       *

The gaunt men were sitting around in a circle, pow-wow fashion,
pretending to work out an answer and all feeling that there wasn't
any, when McBride noticed Heinie, the cook, handling his automatic.
It wasn't the mere fact that he was handling the weapon that deserved
notice. It was the way he was handling it.

Heinie sat with a faraway look in his eye that was now glistening and
now lackluster, fondling the gun in a way that suggested something.
Black words not spoken, but safety off, a damp brow and moody
reflections.

"Heinie," said McBride. "Anything wrong?"

Heinie's eyes came back from that far place with a start. He laughed
bitterly. "Anything wrong! Two weeks without a damned thing to eat, and
the man wants to know if anything's wrong!"

No respect for rank now. No more tin-soldier discipline. What penalty
can you impose upon a man mere days from death?

"You'd better put away the gun, Heinie."

Heinie stared back at McBride with a sort of thoughtful defiance. He
didn't put away the gun.

"Then hand it over," McBride said, and started getting up.

"Stay where you are! All of you!"

Heinie's sunken eyes were suddenly glaring at the others over the
muzzle of his gun. The others settled back, a little afraid but not
caring much.

"As cook," Heinie was saying, "it's my place to prepare meals. I
haven't been doing my job. Now I'm going to."

"Don't let it get you down, man," McBride cautioned. "It's not your
fault if we haven't--"

"Listen to me!" Heinie cut in sharply. "I happened to be in the Navy
when I was only a kid, and three other guys and myself were once
in a fix a lot like this. Only we were adrift on the open sea in a
life-raft. Three of us kept from starving to death, but we had to draw
straws to do it. The one who got the short one--well, I've been having
nightmares about it ever since. God! We didn't even have a fire--"

His voice trailed off, his eyes drawing inward with some shocking
memory. McBride edged toward him.

"Hold it!" Heinie ordered, coming out of the daze.

McBride stopped, half inclined not to. He wavered, drew back, and
decided to try and argue it out.

"You're--sick," he said. "Say you do kill one of us; do you think you
could go through that 'life-raft thing' again? Do you actually think
any of us, starving or not, could bring ourselves to do what you
suggest?"

"I'm not going to go through it," said Heinie. "But if I could be
around to collect, I'd lay you ten to one that you will."

McBride shook his head negatively. "Stop being foolish. You need a
rest."

Heinie did it then. He did it quickly, before anyone had a chance to
stop him. He jerked the muzzle of the automatic up to his own temple.

"So long, suckers!" he shouted, and pulled the trigger.

       *       *       *       *       *

The loud report made the silence that followed seem even more silent.
The men who had come to their feet stood like statues of a mad
sculptor, watching the black hole turn red and gush. Then it came,
dawning in their eyes. The hungry, frightened, hopeful fascination,
the impact of conflicting thoughts. It grew stronger and burned in
the sunken eyes of these dead men who wanted to live. There was no
mistaking the intent, no mistaking the _desire_.

McBride saw it and understood. "Good Lord, no!" he said. He tried to
keep saying it, thinking it.

But he was as near death as the others. The mutual thought bloomed in
his mind like some evil flower. It made him tremble. Sweat suddenly
stung his eyes, ran into his mouth.

Food! Slow miserable death on one side and food on the other! A chance
to live a little longer. Maybe Flaunders would find something in
another week, and one meal might make the difference between seeing
that and not seeing it. One wanted to live! You couldn't bring Heinie
back anyway, so why not live? Heinie had wanted it that way. A human is
an animal as much as a pig or a cow. A chance to live, to hope again!

Some part of his mind screamed at him. "Cannibal!"

"The only chance!" cried another part.

"Vulture!" said the soul-part with unnerving keening. "Will you have
loin? Or perhaps the rump?"

His flesh prickled, the sweat flowed in streams. Unheard murmurings
distorted his mind.

"Only this once, for a little more time!--Maggot! Dungworm!--Only
another week and maybe the Venus II, months ahead of time--Fool! Not a
chance! Die now, quickly!--No, no, no! Still some hope! Never give up.
Never say die! Oh, God, Heinie! Why did you suggest it?"

Gibbering conflict, a trend to insanity. The voices inside beat his
brain against his temple and raged. The civilized man went to his knees
and drew back. The beast man thumped his chest and screamed.

"Alright!" McBride shouted, wondering why his voice sounded so angry,
why his face felt distorted. He drew his feelings within himself. His
voice grew flat and quiet with bitter irony.

"Alright," he said. "Go ahead. Undress the main course."

       *       *       *       *       *

When the meal ended the Hell came. Full stomachs restore sanity. The
beast man lay down, well fed and sleeping, to leave the civilized man
awake with his thoughts. A new kind of Hell, this one that started with
a gun. You could see the fires of it burning the face of every man.

Like the extra-animated Henry Higgins. He sat with unnaturally red
cheeks puffed out beneath his beard, eyes glassy wet, looking at
McBride as if harboring some question too awful to ask. There was
something of the frightened, wild animal about him as his eyes left
McBride and jerked around from one face to another. Then he was up and
awkwardly running in among the trees.

The men got up from the rough table that had been set up outside the
ship. They got up and went away, slinking, like a sex maniac leaving
the scene of his crime when his reason returns and he knows his
insanity. They went away by themselves--those not too sick to walk--and
hid from one another.

But a man can't hide from himself. That was the Hell. This was not a
life-raft on the open sea, every man told himself. This was a green,
smiling world with the smell of flowers on the air, with plenty of
glistening, tempting fruit growing wild and enough game to make an
Indian hunter call it the Happy Hunting Ground. Like a camping trip
back on Earth. Like a picnic where you get drunk and start eating and
then sober up with the smell of blood in your nostrils to find yourself
chewing the hair off the detached leg or arm of your best friend.

What did every man tell himself? That it wouldn't happen again, ever,
this terrible thing. When they found the strength and courage to go
back and clean up the remains of a meal, knowing it to be the remains
of a meal, when they had put what was left of Heinie in a hole and
covered it with dirt and set up a stone marker, they promised one
another it would never ever happen again.

The next day they put it on paper, in black and white. An agreement. On
the third day they thought about it, and on the fourth day they began
wondering why they had done it. And on the fifth day--

On the fifth day they found Thompson, the chemist, hanging from a tree
a short distance from the ship. Quite dead, of course, and no one had
to ask why he had done it.

Hunger madness walked among the men. They took Thompson down from the
tree. Hunger madness whispered in their ears. They listened.

McBride took out the agreement and looked at it, having heard the
tempter's whisper. He didn't think much. It hurt him to think. But
something that had been done once--

He looked at the men and saw an inescapable vise tightening. He looked
at himself and saw the same. At his feet fell the small fragments of
the agreement.

       *       *       *       *       *

The creeping hell closed in. The real Hell that had started with a gun.
Could these any longer think of themselves as men? After the second
time the change starts. It gets a little easier. All you have to do is
keep from looking at anyone. It's nice to live. With life there's hope.
Don't get cheated.

What happened one day surprised no one. Eight of the ten remained,
two gone. Thompson had been gone for days. The hunger returned. The
pendulum swung back. The beast man shoved out any remaining noble
thought and screamed for food. The addict returns to his drug, the
pervert to his revolting deed.... As mad as these, the starving.

Nor was McBride surprised when he found himself holding a little
stick. He wasn't greatly disturbed when it turned out to be the short
one. Sympathy from the others? Not a bit. Only a sort of brooding
resignation. And hunger. Always hunger.

"Flaunders," McBride said. "Where's Flaunders?"

"Don't worry," the one who had passed the straws said. "He took his
chance with us. Been working like a madman since Thompson went. He
wouldn't stop, so I took the straws in to him."

"I don't care about that," McBride informed. "But I've known him since
we were kids. Just felt that I'd like to--well--maybe it's better this
way." He started slowly away.

"Where you going?" someone said suspiciously.

McBride looked at the man with a feeling part disgust, part pity and a
little of something unexplainable. He almost laughed.

"I'm not depriving you of your next meal," he said. "I just feel like
being alone for this."

He walked slowly on, taking his thoughts with him. What was the
purpose in all this? All a monotonous cycle, constantly repeated.
From the torture of starvation to the torture of the shame and bitter
self-accusation that makes one despise himself, back to the starvation.
Men slowly becoming something lower than pigs, and knowing it all too
well. A satisfying of the body at the expense of decency, even, of
sanity. A Hell within souls.

And all for what purpose? To live? For how long, and in what hideous
way? There would be only one lonely and sick man left long before help
could come. What would that last man do? Go completely mad and try to
devour himself? Like the two snakes who met one sunny afternoon and
decided to swallow one another. Each took hold of the tail of the other
and both swallowed and swallowed until nothing at all remained. There
was no purpose. No purpose or reason at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

A short distance back among the trees McBride halted and looked back.
There were bushes between the men and himself. This was it. He drew his
automatic.

Strange, he thought. I don't feel at all like I should about this. It's
just like routine procedure, something you do every day. I actually
think I'm glad I came out with the short straw.

He even thought coolly about the best way to do it. The heart? Not sure
enough. The brain, like Heinie? A little better, but what if there
should be a nervous twitch at the wrong time and a deflection caused by
the bone of the skull?

A babble of voices came to him as if from a great distance, through his
thoughts. Excited voices. But he was in a world of his own, now. All
the others were behind him, cut off.

Safety off, he put the muzzle of the automatic into his mouth and
aimed it sharply upward. The most efficient way, probably. His finger
tightened.

He heard the deafening report and felt the recoil jerk his arm down.
Somewhere he had heard that a man killed instantly by a gun never lives
to hear the report. It puzzled him. Why didn't he fall? Why could he
still see the green tangle of Venus and hear sounds?

There was a ringings in his ears and a sickening shimmer before his
eyes. His shocked mind refused to come back to things for a moment. Who
were these laughing, crying, shouting skeletons whirling about him with
their dirty beards and red-rimmed eyes?

"It's Flaunders," someone shouted. "He's done it!"

"Done it," McBride repeated dumbly. "Done what?"

Then Flaunders was shaking him by the shoulders and grinning. "Come out
of it, man! You're safe; we all are, now! There's no need for any more
of this--gluttony! Don't you understand? I've won! I know how to treat
the fruit, even the edible animals of this world, so we can eat them
and they won't hurt us a bit!"

McBride tried to call order to mind, starting from the beginning. He
looked dazedly at the gun in his hand.

Flaunders laughed. "Don't look so surprised to be alive. One of the men
hit your arm just in time. You missed death by an inch."

It was all too much at one time, a skirling confusion.

"That what you said about beating the poison," McBride said. "Are you
sure? It's not just something on paper, something not proven?"

"Lord, no," Flaunders said, fighting down an urge to shout. "I had it
worked out yesterday, but it still had to be tested and the white rats
and two monkeys we brought along for experimental purposes were gone.
So I went out last night and gathered some fruit and treated it and
tried it on myself. Just look at me and you have your answer. I feel
fine."

Still dazed, still not quite understanding how everything had happened,
McBride started back toward the ship with the others. But one thing he
knew. Venus had been beaten!

       *       *       *       *       *

The meal was all day in the preparing. The eating was a gala event, a
banquet, a roaring party. It lasted two hours.

There wasn't any wolfing down. When you have been starving for weeks
you just don't start off that way. You take a small bite and wait until
you are sure it is safely down. Then you take another small bite and
wait again. If you keep doing that you have a chance of holding what
you eat.

They didn't mind. This food was not the kind you had to force yourself
to chew on, like--some other things.

There were little animals looking something like rabbits, but tasting
more like chicken, fried golden brown. There were oranges that tasted
like nothing of Earth and apples that reminded you of paw-paws in
fall. Seven different kinds of meat there were, and it seemed like a
hundred different kinds of fruits and nuts and herbs. There was even a
juice that proved mildly intoxicating. All a little different, but all
delightfully, temptingly good!

"We'll be eating like this every day!" Flaunders said. "Maybe we can
even set up a bar, with fruit-juice drinks and wine and even invent a
new kind of beer. Big, foamy schooners of beer on Venus! Won't the work
crew be surprised when they get here!"

They let it run away with them. It went to their heads. The warmth of
intoxication, the feel of stomachs filling out. All the things long
missing now returning in full force, all at one time. Almost it was too
much. Almost death from excessive joy.

They went on and on like that, the most happy men ever. They wanted it
to go on for ever, but the feast had started late and it ended late.
After the two hours they felt like sleeping. In fact, they felt a more
relentless urge to sleep than they ever had before.

The result of a full stomach, they supposed, or the aftermath of months
of hardship let in by the sudden relaxation. It certainly wasn't a
matter of choice. Who wanted to sleep at a time like this, a time for
staying up all night and celebrating? But the sandman said no, and
right now he had the advantage.

One by one they yawned, stretched and drifted off to bed like carefree
children, and to hell with cleaning up. That could wait until tomorrow.
Tomorrow! It was wonderful to have one to think about. Tomorrow was a
golden day.

The last to turn in was Captain McBride, just as sleepy but not so
carefree. He alone, perhaps, was not completely satisfied. Underneath
the powerful urge to sleep was a question, and that question needed
answering. Or did it? In one way it didn't really matter. He went in
and found his bed in the darkness and decided to forget the question.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fifteen minutes later McBride lay awake. The great urge to sleep was
still there, but sleep wouldn't come. No, that was not it exactly. He
wouldn't let it come. He was fighting it. The question wouldn't go
away, and it really did need answering after all.

Moving around quietly in the darkness he made sure that the men were
sleeping. Then he returned to the bed next to his, the one in which
Flaunders slept.

"Flaunders," he said softly.

The question grew in his mind. "Flaunders," he called more urgently. He
jostled the quiet form.

"What's wrong?" said Flaunders, half asleep.

"Nothing exactly. I want to talk a bit."

"Better sleep. The time is--"

"Go on," McBride said intently.

Flaunders fought himself awake. "Nothing. Half asleep. Didn't know what
I was saying. What do you want?"

McBride lay down on his own bed, hardly able to keep his eyes open.
"Maybe I want to talk about the Garden of Eden, about the pair who were
told that a certain fruit was death to them, and about a serpent who
told them it wasn't."

Flaunders said nothing.

"Must have been quite a persuader, that Serpent," McBride went on in
dream talk. "Up until this morning I guess I might have welcomed such a
one, and I don't think I was alone in feeling that way. Men were never
intended to live the way we were living. We really didn't want to live
if we had to live that way. We only convinced ourselves that we did. We
were caught in a hellish vise and each of us knew it, underneath. So a
talking serpent who could convince us that the fruit of Venus was not
poison might not have been such a bad idea."

"Why talk about that?" said Flaunders, like a man talking in his sleep.
"It's over. We've beaten Venus."

McBride tried to open his eyes. It was too much trouble. His own words
seemed to him like someone else talking, far away and unreal. There was
a feeling like being detached from one's body.

"Beaten Venus, yes," he said. "But I'm wondering how. I keep thinking
how this kind of poison acts. Probably affect us as it did the rats
and monkeys. Takes four or five hours to act, and it hasn't been three
since we started eating. Was it only chance that your treatment of
the food took all day and had to be extended up to the last moment
before serving? It wasn't even sampled before three hours ago. And so I
wonder."

Flaunders' voice seemed to come out of a deep well. "Let's get some
sleep."

McBride's voice almost matched it. "Not yet. I haven't mentioned about
the medical supplies we brought along. Even drugs. It would have been
simple for the welcome serpent to treat the food with something to
deaden pain, to make us sleep through it."

His voice trailed off in sleep, his thoughts drifting away with the
night. Still the question wouldn't go away. It forced him partly awake.
He didn't even realize how little of a question it was now. His body
was a chunk of lead, not able to move. To speak required almost more
effort than he could muster.

"Flaunders. You didn't. It's just fatigue, letdown after strain. I know
you won't lie if I ask you. All I want is to hear you say you didn't."

Flaunders wouldn't have tried to move if he could. He lay on his back
with his hands folded on his chest. Appropriate.

"Goodnight," he said.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POISON PLANET ***

***** This file should be named 63945-0.txt or 63945-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/9/4/63945/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

