ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of As It Was, by Paul L. Payne

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: As It Was

Author: Paul L. Payne

Release Date: December 05, 2020 [EBook #63953]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AS IT WAS ***




                               AS IT WAS

                           By PAUL L. PAYNE

           _In a cruel Cosmos one lived only to be killer or
              killed._ The One _proved that_. It _killed
          a hundred times a day. Thisbe II was its blood-red
         preserve ... and now, throwing the challenge in_ Its
      _myriad faces was Pritchard, the brightest name in big-game
        hunting throughout the length and breadth of Galaxy A._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Planet Stories November 1952.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Dawn on Thisbe II was much like dawn on Terra, except for the color.
The giant star Piramus lifted its magenta disk above the little
planet's fore-shortened horizon and, in that brief moment, sent orange
corona flares shimmering out from its limb. An odd ionization effect
caused faint ripples of light to flicker in the purple sky above.

As the sun ascended, the magenta brightened into a crimson dazzle with
a lavender halo. The flanks of distant mountains flamed curiously, as
if their sides were smooth and polished mirrors.

Yet nothing gleamed with such intensity as the good ship _Apollo_,
towering a hundred and ten feet on her fins. Her surface--chrome-plated
nickel-steel coated with a thick porcelain glaze--was expressly
designed to bounce back every slightest beam of light.

So she stood now like a flaming sword, in the center of a wide black
circle, the area of yesterday's landing burn, and lay across it a
wide fan of reflected sunlight. Presently, a thing like an enormous
grasshopper-leg unfolded from her side. In its grasp was something that
looked like a tray full of erect ants. The tray touched ground softly,
the ants walked off and became men, and the long derrick folded back
into the _Apollo_, taking the tray with it.

The men left on the ground stood looking about them eagerly. After some
of the barren, hostile worlds they had visited this one seemed little
short of Paradise. From the eminence on which the ship stood they
could look in every direction at rolling hills, among which clumps of
feathery foliage rose profusely, and occasional startling upthrusts of
rock, like clubs brandished from underground, leaning in every possible
angle and having frequently such straight planes of cleavage that they
almost seemed artificial. Olive-hued hills and dramatic fists of rock
alike marched off to a disturbingly close-appearing horizon, where
began a sky that was not blue but lavender.

They stamped the ground. It was one thing to have watched this wonder
swell on the visiscreens as the ship tore around on its landing orbit,
and to have craned and peered through the heavy leaded glass of the
viewports after the landing in yesterday's sunset. Neither of these
quite matched the delight of seeing it all with unaided and unimpeded
vision. They smelled the air, so rich and invigorating after the ship's
mustiness.

They were all young but one. And this one faced them now, a tall,
saturnine man, but with an amusement lurking in his dark, deep-set
eyes. "Attention, cadet hunters," he said briskly, "let's have another
equipment check."

They rolled their eyes at him and quirked their mouths in simulated
resignation. Yet the readiness with which they formed a semi-circle
about him showed their pride in obeying his orders. They knew they were
lucky to be under Pritchard, the brightest name in planetary big-game
hunting throughout the length and breadth of Galaxy A.

For each of them had fought hard for his place in this latest
expedition to be led by Pritchard. The ex-pilot-turned-sportsman
regularly accepted certain hardy young neophytes of the chase as
assistants on his expeditions; some aspired to follow in his footsteps
and others merely sought the thrills and danger that lurked along the
unknown trails of far-flung worlds.

       *       *       *       *       *

Each one now showed his regular and special equipment to Pritchard.
Butt-first, they held out their snappers--the light Thorp-Snell hand
rocket-tube that launched a high explosive needle, deadly up to a
thousand yards. Pritchard inspected load and action, and then thumbed
the gleaming edge of each man's chopper, or matchet which had been
derived from the old Terran hatchet and machete combined. It was really
a long, broad blade with a flattened-out, hatchet-shaped head.

The special equipment consisted of a squawkie, the portable radio,
carried by the phlegmatic Sturgis; the cam-rec, a light camera and tape
recorder combined, slung over Kemp's plump shoulders; the flamer, or
flame-thrower, its full plastic tank strapped to Majinski's back; the
two packets of synthetabs or food concentrates enough for a week for
them all should they get lost--hung to the belt of red-headed McManus;
and the first-aid kit strapped to Pritchard's own lean shoulders. To
the remaining five men would fall the pleasure of carrying all this
stuff back when the little scouting party returned.

At last Pritchard beckoned to the squawkie-man and spoke into its
'phragm. "All set, Cap. See anything?" The voice of Captain Savage,
high above the rocket batteries in the towering nose, came back as a
thin rasping. His report was negative. "Must be a lull between the
night carnivores and the daytime ruminants. Looks like a few flocks of
birds far away."

"Fine. We'll head east and dig around in that jungle down there a bit.
We'll turn back after noon chow."

The captain's "Good hunting" ended with a click. Pritchard turned
calmly and started walking off the hard gloss the _Apollo's_
hell-breathing stern tubes had made of this once-grassy spot, into the
blackened wisps and dust. The men followed him in a loose, straggling
group, ten men in all, swaggering for the benefit of the envious eyes
of those remaining in the ship.

McManus strode rapidly until he had caught up with the tall hunter. The
red-haired boy's idolatry was plain in his wide blue eyes.

"Why the jungle?" he said. "Why are you tackling the jungle, Mr.
Pritchard?"

"Just for a sample. Also as a check. The whole planet's like this.
Can't land anywhere without being near the jungles that seem to fill up
every valley. I don't like cover like that so close to the ship. I want
to see what's in it."

"Think we'll knock over anything?"

"Not trying for it," said Pritchard shortly. He punched the younger man
on the biceps. "And unkink that trigger-finger of yours, hero boy."

McManus grinned shamefacedly. "Ah, change your tapes, will you? I only
need one mistake to learn."

Pritchard snorted. "On that Deneb asteroid, you promised. You seemed to
understand. Then you thought you'd like one of those big clamshells for
a souvenir. Remember what came out of those shells after you fired?"

The boy moved his shoulders. "Remember! I dream about them regularly
every tenth night."

"I'm also thinking about a man named Munson." Pritchard's tone had
become soft and musing. "That name mean anything to you?"

McManus shrugged. "There must be a million Munsons. None of 'em ever
meant anything to me."

"Every hunter remembers Munson," said Pritchard flatly. "And everybody
on Terra remem--"

Something squeaked under his foot. Pritchard flung himself sideways
into the blackened stubble, rolled, and came up in a crouch, snapper at
ready, while McManus stood blinking at him. Pritchard came back slowly,
narrowed gaze riveted on the spot where he had stepped. McManus backed
away, raising his own snapper. The rest of the men came running up.

Pritchard knelt and picked up something. It was stiff and charred and
smelt acridly, but the men clustering around could see it had six legs.
There was a click and a whirr as Kemp started the cam-rec.

Then McManus said, "I'll be damned" and picked up something else. It
squealed and squirmed in his hand, and it also had six legs.

"What is it?" queried Majinski over his shoulder. "Rabbit?"

"Or squirrel," put in Greene, a rangy blond boy.

"Some kind of rodent, anyway," said Pritchard. He ran a finger the
wrong way through baby fur and the little sharp muzzle flicked around
to snap at him. He stood up. "The mother shielded it from our stern
jetwash. She died that Junior might live." He wiped his hands on his
cordron breeches. "Bring it along, Tom. We'll drop it in the tall
grass."

By the time they reached the tall grass beyond the perimeter of the
burn, Tom McManus had become attached to the little fur-ball, with its
whiskery nose and knob-like feet, and found that it snuggled nicely in
his breast pocket. Pritchard smiled indulgently and they all waded into
the waist-high grass.

       *       *       *       *       *

They went slowly, partly out of caution and partly because the long,
thick-growing blades clogged and bunched around their legs. Little
things went hopping and chittering out of their way, and the sun began
to lay its heat on them. Birds, as yet unseen, called and cried and
whistled in the dense growth ahead.

They went down a long slope, and then bushes began to shoulder up
above the grass-tips and trees sprang up, some arching their feathery
fern-like trunks until they began to lace together overhead and others
dangling enormous round leaves from long drooping stems.

The transition to jungle was gradual, with more and more sunlight
filtered out of the growing shade, and vines and creepers becoming
abundant about the ankles. The choppers appeared and began swinging
and slashing, and all were grateful for the shade and its attendant
coolness. Something crashed heavily away, hidden by the dark
brown-green wall before them.

It began to be real jungle. Pritchard stopped before a sturdy hedge. He
had chopped into it and found a long tough root from which the heavy
chopper only seemed to bounce back.

"Hell," he grunted as McManus came up. "Joe," he called, "let's have
the flamer here."

"Ah, what's the matter with you!" grinned McManus. He took his own
chopper between both hands and raised it high over his head. "You must
be ... getting ... _old_!" And he brought the heavy blade down with all
his force.

Pritchard had stepped back, amusement twisting his lips. Majinski was
shouldering forward with the flamer's nozzle ready. The chopper's edge
chunked into the root--

And it came alive. The whole length of it flailed up into the air,
flinging the whirling chopper off into the gloom. The next instant the
air was full of writhing ropey lengths that whipped down on the men,
lashing thick branches off as they came.

"Look out!" yelled Pritchard needlessly, as the men cowered and ducked,
arms flung over their heads.

Then something whipped about him hard, stinging and driving the breath
from him. He felt himself swung up, his arms pinioned.

He caught a glimpse of other bodies rising with him, heard hoarse
screaming and yelling.

Branches lashed by him and suddenly he was looking down on the
jungle from high in the air, looking down on a sea of foliage, big,
dish-shaped leaves lying atop the spreading ferns. Then he was curving
down again, dizzyingly.

He saw it. A great maw, like the throat of an orchid, with a fringe of
giant tentacles. It seemed to be rushing up at him.

Fighting to free his arms, he realized they were not held below the
elbows. By crossing over with his left hand, he could draw his snapper
and shift its butt into his right.

But he was descending into that obscenely working orifice, choking on
its acrid stench, before he could manage it. The little needles went
tseeu, tseeu, tseeu, down into the quivering pulp. They could be death
for him at this range. Pritchard, dangling there in that moment of
eternity, could only avert his face from the crisp blasts gusting back
at him.

Abruptly he was flying through the air, his arms free. The snapper
arced off in one direction and Pritchard went into his own gyrating,
twisting, writhing parabola. A frond slapped him. A branch snapped
under his hip. He was falling into foliage. A thick stem slithered
along his hand and he grabbed at it, to hang on through an insane
pendulum swing that carried him whisperingly close to the ground.

They found him crumpled at the foot of the tree against which he had
been dashed.

Yet, within five minutes, he was reporting back to the ship that the
party was intact. The giant hydra-type plant, in its death throe, had
flung only him. The others had been held adangle in mid-air while
it chose to feed on Pritchard first and, although he had been sent
sailing, the tentacles gripping the others had simply loosened. One
man, dropped upside down from ten feet, had a fractured collarbone, but
they were even now cementing a flexicast in place and he would continue
with the rest. Majinski had had the flamer torn from his hand and they
weren't able to find it.

In fifteen minutes they were hacking steadily ahead again, more slowly
now that they had no flamer, and having to stop to trace every creeper
to its root before they chopped through it.

Pritchard straightened up from a tangle he'd been attacking and eased
his bruised and aching back. He peered ahead into light-flecked gloom,
the matted mass of vine, creeper and branch that grew so chokingly high
they were virtually tunneling through. They would find no game this
way, he reflected, their chopping and hacking and swearing spreading
the alarm well ahead. The birds, for instance, had stopped singing. He
glanced briefly to his left at young McManus grunting and swinging.

"Tom." Pritchard's tone was casual, but his eyes were alert and hard.
The red-headed man held his stroke and peered ludicrously under his
armpit.

"Freeze," said Pritchard.

The boy went rigid. "What is it?"

"On the branch above you." Pritchard's voice cracked out above the
ringing blades. "Hold it, everybody! Hold it!" Then, in a lower tone,
he gave orders, and the three or four cadet hunters near McManus slowly
began to ease out their snappers. The cam-rec clicked into action.

"For the cripes sake, what is it?" whispered McManus, the red of
exertion washing out of his face until it was a dripping ivory mask.

"I don't know." Pritchard began waving his arms slowly to attract the
attention of the thing eighteen inches above that red hair. "I'd call
it a scorpion if it didn't look like a spider. I'd call it a spider if
it didn't look like a scorpion. It's not quite as big as a sheepdog."
He uttered a chirping whistle and continued to wave his arms.

"For the love of God, blast it, then."

"I didn't finish telling you about Munson," remarked Pritchard
conversationally. "Way back in 2018, he started the Venusian War--"

"Must we have a history lesson now?" said McManus through clenched
teeth.


                                  II

The thing above him made a convulsive movement, a quick clutching with
its claws as if preparing to spring. McManus's face went from ivory
to a dirty snow color. But the thing remained motionless, except that
under its gleaming yellow carapace Pritchard could see its thorax
pulsing evilly.

"Munson," Pritchard went on dryly, his arms still flagging away,
although the spider-scorpion paid no apparent attention, "Munson was a
great scientist. He trapped a big beetle and experimented on it for a
week or so. Then he killed it for dissection. He had no idea it was a
Citizen of Venus."

"Oh, I see," said the other sarcastically. "You're afraid to shoot this
thing. It might be what passes for human on this mud-ball. If it drops
on me, of course--"

"Shut up!" Pritchard dropped his hand to his snapper. The thing had
stood up slowly, its segmented tail curving stiffly up behind it. "I
think it's going to strike. You talk too much."

He brought the snapper up. "I'll do it, boys. I've got the clearest
shot--"

A sharp hiss broke from the jungle. The spidion (as he thought of
calling it) jerked its ugly head about. Pritchard turned and caught his
breath with a sharp intake. McManus slowly lifted his head to follow
Pritchard's gaze. His chopper fell from his hand. All about them, men
stood on tiptoe or stooped or craned sideways to look. Somebody said,
"A woman!" Kemp panned the cam-rec about wildly until he caught her in
its viewer.

She stood, straight and slim, on a gnarled stub protruding from a thick
tree-trunk, some ten feet from the ground and about twenty feet from
Pritchard, who was nearest her. Her honey-colored hair fell in crudely
cut locks to her shoulders, framing a youthful, cleanly-chiseled face
from which gray-green eyes gazed steadily. A strip of hide between
her legs joined another strip of hide at her waist, from which hung a
plaited grass sheath holding a long, narrow-bladed knife. A third strip
of hide had the obvious main function of binding down her billowing
breasts, rather than concealing them. Her skin had been tanned an even
nut-brown all over.

From her lips came that sharp hiss again and she slapped her thigh
smartly. The spidion was gone in a scuttling rush. McManus sagged
weakly to the ground and drew a thick forearm across his forehead.
"Geez, thanks, sister," he muttered.

"What are you doing here?" The girl's voice rang out through the
jungle's stillness.

"Hunting," replied Pritchard.

"Hunting what?"

"Anything." He smiled up at her. "Anything big and tough. What are you
doing here?"

He could just make out the corner of her mouth lifting in disdain.
"What do you mean by 'anything big and tough?'"

Pritchard liked to have his own questions answered, too. "Who are you,
anyway?" he rapped out sternly. "How come you speak Terran English?
Where's the rest of your party?"

The girl only frowned down at him. "By what right do you come tramping
in here killing all my people?"

"All your _what_?" Pritchard blinked.

"People, people, people. There are beings on this world who live and
breathe and think just like you. But you seem to think it's all right
to come in and kill them. For sport."

Gazing up into those blazing emerald eyes and that delicious figure,
Pritchard felt an unaccustomed tingling through his nerves. Any woman,
however crippled, deformed or aged, could provoke some excitement after
the prison of deep space. But this beauty--

He glanced sideways at McManus who had moved up alongside him. The
redhead had a feral grin on his freckled mug.

"Relax," muttered Pritchard from the corner of his mouth. "This one's
for me."

He said to the girl, "We haven't killed anything, certainly not any
people." The vision of that carbonized carcass back on the burn
flickered across his mind. "What do you think we are, murderers? You're
the first person we've seen."

She cut him off with an impatient gesture. "You're a pack of killers,
all of you. I wouldn't expect you to understand."

"Hey, Mr. Pritchard," called out Sturgis, "I'll bet she's from that
Havilland group. Ask her."

Pritchard cocked his head. "That's right! You are, aren't you? The
Havilland Survey sent out by the Astrodetic Board. Unreported for four
years. What happened? Where's your base?"

The girl nodded briefly. "And you're Pritchard, the notorious big-game
hunter. I've heard about you. Nothing good, of course, but I've heard."

       *       *       *       *       *

Pritchard smiled his sweetest smile. "That's right. I'm well known for
my slaughter of helpless animals. But, come on, now," he coaxed, "how
about a report on your party? The Board will appreciate any little
message you care to send it."

The girl gripped a vine as if to steady herself. "Wiped out," she said
tersely.

"Oh." He nodded, lips pursed. Then, as if it were an afterthought, he
said, "How?"

"What does it matter?" The face above was momentarily tense, withdrawn.
"With plenty of synthetabs--and the hydroponics laid out and
producing--somebody still had to go out and kill. For fresh meat." Her
voice trailed off.

"And--?" Pritchard prompted.

"Oh," she sighed wearily, "they came. They were the ones who got the
fresh meat." She shuddered.

"Who's 'they?'"

"Please," she said, "I'd rather not discuss it any more. But I think
you'd better leave. Certainly, you'd better not kill anything if you
know what's good for you. Besides, you've done enough damage already."

Pritchard cleared his throat. The men behind him were whispering and
snickering. "Speaking of leaving," he said, "how about you? If the
Survey was wrecked--"

"I'm not interested in leaving," she said curtly. "I've got work to do
here."

"What work?"

"I'm working with the people here."

"Oh, there _are_ natives?"

"Certainly. This world is full of people."

He scowled his impatience. "What's their cultural stage?"

She favored him with a one-sided grin. "Some are foraging. A few are
gregarious. You met one just now. Fortunately, I got here in time to
save her life."

McManus's jaw dropped. "Save _her_ life! You don't mean that crawly
brute that tried to kill me just now?"

"If she threatened you," said the girl with careful enunciation such as
she might use to a child, "it was because you had disturbed her peace."

"And it--she--was what you'd call a person?" demanded Pritchard, "Do
you mean that you consider absolutely all the living, moving things
here, people?"

The girl nodded firmly. Pritchard gazed at her, pawing his chin.

"Tell me," he murmured, "do they kill one another for fresh meat?"

She sighed. "They still do, but I'm trying to cure them of that. That's
the work I'm doing. They only kill, after all, for food. I'm trying to
cure them of the killing habit by getting them to switch to synthetabs.
I've--"

The rest of her words were drowned in a tidal wave of laughter. The men
exploded, beat each other, howled, and fell on the ground. She stared
down at them, and her eyes began to smolder anew.

Pritchard fought his own face straight and wheeled on them. "Cut that
out!" he yelled. "As you were!" They gurgled back at him, pleading
their helplessness, hugging their sides. McManus gripped his cheeks and
tried to squeeze his mouth straight, but strangled gusts still shook
him.

The spectacle weakened Pritchard's own control and he turned quickly
back to the girl. The sight of her beauty, now in a passionate rage,
cut sharply across his mirth. He noticed with interest that the thin
strip of hide across those heaving breasts was undergoing maximum
strain.

"Please allow me to apologize for my men," he said gravely. "I'm sure
they don't mean to be insulting. What is your name, by the way, so I
can at least report it to the Board?"

Her chin was up. "Cornelia Boyce," she said haughtily.

"And how did you manage to survive the attack on the Survey camp?"

"I was away." She was calming a little. "They came at sunrise but I
wasn't there. I was out, learning to ride one of the--the people."

Pritchard looked down quickly and coughed. Fresh gurgles sounded behind
him. The cam-rec whirred on. "But you are all right here? You can take
care of yourself?"

"I am in no danger," she said icily. "In four years I have won most of
the people over to my side. They protect me. In turn, and in my own
way, I protect them. I've learned how to make synthetabs and I also
feed them from the 'ponics gardens. And now I'll do my best to protect
them from you. I'm sure I can't appeal to your decency but I can appeal
to your reason, and perhaps convince you that this is a poor world to
hunt in."

"Now, listen, Miss Boyce," Pritchard cut in patiently, "we're not here
on a mission of slaughter. I gather, and please correct me if I'm
wrong, that you're one of that group back on Terra that opposes
big-game hunting."

"You are completely correct about that," she interposed.

"--and are pushing through legislation to make it illegal under the
Space Code. But we already adhere to the Space Code. We are most
zealous, I assure you, to avoid bagging anything parahuman, anything
that exhibits anything like human intelligence. We--"

"That's precisely why you should abandon your hunting here. My good
man, just what do you consider intelligence?" She held up her hand
to prevent his answering. "For instance, a good many of the what you
would call animals on this little planet have developed a spoken
language. And I don't mean a mother's warning to her cubs, or one male
challenging another. I mean, for instance, the news I received this
morning." She smiled. "Would you like to know what a little bird told
me?"

He nodded. "I'm all ears."

"Well," she said thoughtfully, "it wasn't such a little bird, and it
wasn't exactly news to me. After all, I'd seen your braking jets in the
ionosphere and heard the cavitation rumble when you were settling into
denser atmosphere in your orbit. But, anyway, here's what my birdie
told me: 'A thing with sun-fire at both ends has come down out of the
sky two flights from here. Now a flock of two-legged beasts from it are
attacking the plants. We don't understand!'" Her face relaxed into a
disconcerting smile. "They couldn't understand why you were so angry
with the grass and the trees!"

"Extremely funny," he said gravely. "It just happens to be meaningless,
also."

"Don't you see? They can communicate ideas!"

"Fine," he nodded. "What of it?"

"But--but that means they're intelligent. Too intelligent to be called
'animals'!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He shook his head. "On Terra only one animal developed communications
to a high degree. But we long ago decided that some other animals were
fairly intelligent, for all that they didn't appear to speak among
themselves. On many other worlds--and I can name you a score I've
visited--lots of so-called 'animals', apart from the intelligences we
dealt with, had developed fairly complex methods of communications that
would put the old Terran elephants and ants to shame. That still didn't
make them what we called 'people'."

Her eyes were hot with scorn. "I know that! If you'd lived with the
Thisbeans as long as I have you'd understand. Why--"

"Now, look," said Pritchard with rising asperity, "we have satisfactory
means of determining intelligence. If your 'people' are as you claim
they're in no danger. But are you going to claim there are no killers
here? They're what we're after, intelligent or not. And there are
killers on every world, Miss Boyce."

She shook her head in despair at his stupidity. "There are no killers
here, Mr. Pritchard. There are no killers anywhere on any world. Only
variant life forms trying to live and eat, eating only to live. If we
help them to find food, and guide their impulses...."

Pritchard gave up. The argument was futile. It struck him that the girl
was mad. The horror of the attack on the Survey camp, followed by years
of isolation from her kind, had left her in a hopelessly deranged state.

And a little plan took shape in his mind.

"That's all very fine," he said, cutting across her words, "but let
me show you something that will prove to you we are not here to kill
indiscriminately."

He turned to McManus. "Let's have your little pet, Tom." McManus raised
his eyebrows, but fumbled the button of his breast pocket flap loose
and pulled out the wriggling, six-legged infant rodent. Pritchard took
it and held it out toward the girl.

"Here, Miss Boyce. My friend found this. He didn't bite its head off
first thing. Now we'll turn it over to you for safekeeping."

"Aw," growled McManus.

"Quiet," Pritchard growled back at him. He lifted the wriggling little
beast and it squeaked. "I guess I'd better not toss it."

The eyes of Cornelia Boyce were large and glowing with maternal pity.
She dropped lightly to the ground and advanced, holding out her hand.
Pritchard pulled back the hand with the little wriggler in it and his
other shot forward to grip the girl's wrist.

She gasped and bent backward, striving to wrench loose. Her strength
was such that Pritchard, turning to hand the cub back to McManus,
almost lost his balance.

"Stop it," she cried. "You don't know what--"

Her lips moved for another second, but the words were lost in the
sudden tumult that erupted about them. The jungle exploded, almost
seemed to come alive at their very feet. Dimly-seen shapes came
lurching and crashing toward them from every side, clambering and
trampling and swinging from branch to branch. Here and there a tree
cracked, splintered and fell.

The men whipped out their snappers and backed against each other, eyes
rolling nervously in grim set faces. The girl frantically twisted out
of Pritchard's fingers and stuck two fingers in her mouth.

A piercing, two-noted whistle stabbed through the mounting din. It
stabbed again, and the uproar subsided into a confused rustling and
shuffling. Silence fell across the dust-charged air.

All about, in the jungle surrounding the head of the path the
scouting party had hacked, the vegetation barely concealed a
shoulder-to-shoulder wall of hulking beasts, while smaller animals and
what looked like maned gorillas crouched or stood along the bending
branches. Tusks protruded from drooling jaws and hundreds of eyes
blazed forth steadily.

"No shooting, no shooting!" Pritchard was bellowing. "She has them
under control, boys. Hold your fire." Then he took a deep breath and
turned toward Cornelia Boyce. She had backed off to a safe distance
from him, her eyes twin pools of green contempt.

"My people." She bowed ironically. "At your service."

Pritchard grinned tautly. "You win. Of course, my intentions were only
of the best. I thought you ought to come back to Terra for a little
observation and examination, but--" he waved lightly "--let's skip it."

"You were lucky that I was able to stop them," she said. "Next time I
might not be able to in time. Now if you're wise you'll just take your
little ship and go home."

"Why, certainly, certainly." He bowed. "In the meantime it was a
pleasure to have met you, Miss Boyce."

"I'm sure," she replied coldly. She lifted her head, and from her lips
suddenly poured an astonishing babble, a mixture of coughing, grunting
and chirping. There began to be movement in the brush, and some of the
things there began lurching and crashing off.

"Where are they going?" Pritchard strove for a casual tone.

"I'm deploying them along your trail," she said with equal calm. "They
will escort you out of this jungle and report to me when you re-enter
the ship."

"And you were really talking to them?"

She shrugged, as if at a childish question. "Of course."

He studied her, and his long features slid into a crooked, embarrassed
smile. "Miss Boyce, I owe you an apology. Maybe you've got something
here after all."

She raised weary eyebrows. "If you're quite through looking at my body,
you can go now."

He laughed shortly. "I wasn't, especially. Although it's very--"

"Good-bye!"

He bowed again and turned. "All right, boys. You heard what the lady
said. Let's pull out of here. And let's keep our little hands away from
our snappers, eh? The lady's friends appear to be quite numerous and a
little touchy."


                                  III

With a few dry, nervous chuckles, the cadet hunters hefted their
equipment and started back up the trail. Just as the girl had
predicted, shapes rustled in the foliage close by their sides,
accompanied by an occasional growl or whine or snort that was somewhat
unnerving. Pritchard could occasionally discern the shaggy shoulders
of the gorilla-type, and some other lithe and slinking or lumbering
shapes--with here and there a hump of slate-gray hide or a ridged,
scaly back.

The return along the hacked-out trail was easier and quicker than
their coming, and soon they saw the tip of the _Apollo's_ bow in the
sky beyond the shoulder of the hill. As they toiled back up the slope
through the clogging grass, they became aware that the animals were not
following them further, but backward glances could still make out some
vague shapes in the foliage.

Pritchard became aware, also, of McManus's silence. The redhead,
usually garrulous, had been silent from the start of their retreat, his
square jaw clamped hard shut. The Chief Hunter slapped the young man's
broad back.

"Relax, Tom. Men have backed down from women before. It's not
considered bad form at all. Now and then they outmaneuver us, and
that's all there is to it."

A couple of the others chuckled, but McManus continued his stolid
slogging up the hill without a sign. Pritchard shrugged. They all
trudged across the burn, and the great grasshopper-leg let down the
platform for them.

Waiting for it to settle, Pritchard braced with one hand at the base
of a towering fin and began slapping dust from his breeches. He heard
Sturgis say, "Hey, watch that!" and the tseeu of a snapper.

He jerked erect in time to see McManus lower his weapon, and hear a
distant explosion. Down over the hill, in the tall grass, what appeared
to be a huge boar or pygmy rhino was writhing and kicking. Somberly,
Pritchard watched its six twitching legs quiet down and stiffen.

"That was a good shot, Tom," he said.

McManus came toward him, grinning with relief. "I'd had about all I
could take--" he started to say, and then Pritchard's fist slammed into
his jaw. His feet left the ground and he fell heavily onto the hard
ground under the tubes.

Pritchard was picking him up again when he heard Sturgis's voice again.
"You'd better make it snappy, chief. I think they're working up to
something."

Shapes were moving up through the distant grass. Wings were flapping or
tilted in soaring across the jungle not far beyond. There came to the
ship a dim, vast babble of cries, grunts, squeals, howls and barks.

They carried the inert McManus over to the platform in a hurry. But
Pritchard let his finger rest on the buzzer-button while he looked over
the array of animals now gathering in plain sight, fanning out around
the perimeter of the scorched ground.

There were the slate-gray ones, like that which McManus had
downed--six-legged, suber-snouted, long-tusked. There were hulking,
scaly-hided ones, resembling ant-eating bears--also six-legged. In
fact, the six-legged skeleton seemed to prevail among the fauna
of Thisbe II. The canine-like ones running this way and that were
six-legged, and so were certain slinking, feline types. On the other
hand, the maned gorillas had but four appendages, and so had the
ungainly-looking, leaping ones, that looked like hairless kangaroos
except for their wicked, underslung jaws.

Quite suddenly, this horde was charging across the burn, converging on
the shining cylinder towering above them, aiming for the platform still
resting on the ground.

"What's he waiting for?" Pritchard heard the whisper above the rising
thunder about them, knew he was meant to hear it. He jabbed home the
button and the rising floor pressed their feet. He stepped over to the
squawkie and spoke into its 'phragm. "Chief on, Savage. Hold your fire.
We're clear." Turning to the men on the now rapidly rising platform, he
said, "No shooting."

Soberly, they all gazed down at the horde sweeping up below, swirling
about, bumping into the fins and one another. Their silence, other
than the noise of their thousands of feet and hooves, was oppressive
and menacing. A few of the leaping ones soared up at the platform,
wriggling in mid-air and pawing, but it had gone too high and they fell
back.

Then Pritchard glanced up. His hand started for his snapper.
Toward them through the air came a cloud of flying things--great
leathery-winged birds, smaller, faster, feathered ones--rising on a
line of flight that would carry them above the platform to a point of
interception, claws distended, beaks open and eager.

Thin and remote, a two-toned whistle sounded. Sounded again. The
converging flocks wheeled, fluttered and fell away, gliding off toward
the jungle. Far below, the milling horde flung up a varied array of
heads, and then began to move, a drift that became a surge, trotting
and hopping away across the burn.

"Phew!" said someone behind Pritchard. "That girl really has an army."

McManus sat up, shaking his head and staring at the smooth shining hull
of the _Apollo_ swinging down to them. He felt his jaw and squinted up
at Pritchard.

"Quarters for you," the tall saturnine man said softly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Late that evening Pritchard was in the chart room talking with Captain
Savage. The _Apollo's_ ventilation system had been in operation for
over thirty hours now and the blowers had sucked out the last vestige
of mechanically purified air, with its taint of ozone, metal and
oil. It was pleasant to rock gently in the gimbal chairs and sniff
the lush night air of Thisbe II. Aloft, in the nose, the watch was
idly working out a game of kru, that old Martian solitaire involving
domino-like counters. The autoscanner hooked to the magnar was ready
to clang at the first blip on the screens. Below, in the wardrooms,
the cadet hunters were amusing themselves with a runoff of the day's
cam-rec spool ("Get this line about the synthetabs!" ... guffaws of
laughter). Midway down the curving tail section Tom McManus sulked in
his quarters, fingering the bruise on his jaw.

"So we'll pick up in the morning, hey?" mused the captain. His was a
squat, ape-like body, surmounted by a long, goat's face and a grizzled
skull.

"Yes." Pritchard drained his tall glass. "I'm not going to bother with
her. If she can send a whole army of her animals against us it's going
to make hunting a little difficult. We could set down on the other side
and maybe get in a bit of shooting, but she'd catch up with us. Even
if we try hunting from the air with the jet cruisers...." He shook his
head. "It's too dangerous. I've got to look out for these boys, after
all. No, I don't want to get messed up with her in any way." He stared
calmly at the wall, seeing once again that lithe body straining out of
his grasp, and knew himself for a liar.

"Well...." The captain rubbed his nose, furtively eyeing the other
man's profile. He knew when a man was lying. It was one of the things
one developed long before one got to be a hundred and thirteen years of
age. He lowered his wrinkled old eyelids and went on, "... she's hung
on here for four years. Maybe she isn't too crazy at that. Of course,
it's kind of too bad to leave a filly like her running around loose."

"We'll just hope we won't be too much criticized for not bringing her
home," Pritchard cut in quickly. "Thank God, we shot all that cam-rec
footage. It'll--"

He lifted his head, his long nostrils flaring. "Murder! What's that
stink coming from?"

The old man grimaced up at the air-grill.

"Eeugh! Low tide on Venus!"

Pritchard got up and went toward the intercom. "Something's died, I'd
say, inside the ship or close by."

At that instant the intercom's tiny diaphragm screamed. Screamed, and
broke off into a hoarse babble. The two men froze, scowling at each
other. The babble rose again into a sharp screaming "NO!"--and then
stopped.

Pritchard stepped to the 'phragm. "Chief on. All stations and quarters
report, please."

Voices came back at him out of the wall. "Nose watch. All X here, Mr.
Pritchard. What happened?"

"Stern watch. All X, chief. What--?"

"Wardroom, Greene on. All X. Something stinks, chief."

"Engine room. All X."

"Majinski on, retired to quarters. Pee-yew!"

Then, silence, pregnant with listening.

"McManus," snapped Pritchard.

"Louder," said the captain. "He may be asleep."

"McManus!" The tall hunter shouted. "TOM!"

Then he was out the door. The captain strode to the intercom. "All free
hands to McManus. Fast!" he barked, and then ran after Pritchard who
was already stepping into the axial lift.

McManus's quarters were well down in the tail. Pritchard found half
a dozen men clustered at his cabin door which they had torched open.
Their eyes were watering and they were gagging at the incredibly foul
stench roiling the air.

"Where's McManus?" he demanded, starting to shoulder through them. The
stench caught at his throat so that he choked on the words.

A cadet hunter clutched at his sleeve. "Don't go in there, chief," he
gasped. "You can't do Tom any good now."

Savage was at the wall intercom. "Meyer, for God's sake, blow this ship
out," he yelled hoarsely.

Pritchard shook off the detaining hand and stepped to the open door.
He looked once at the dripping mess in the gimbal chair and jerked his
head away.

The pie-shaped cubicle was otherwise normal at first glance. The
hammock hung suspended between its swivels. The viewport was properly
sealed. The bath and disposal unit in one far corner stood in spotless
order, as did the sectional drawer case opposite.

What had come in here? And how had it gotten in? The door had been
electro-locked in its sliding frame and the men, who had quite properly
not waited for the magnekey Captain Savage alone carried, had had to
burn through the lock wiring. There was no other way into the room.

Pritchard stepped over to the air-grill. His eyes swimming in the
terrible stench in the cabin, he nevertheless could discern how the
heavy chrome mesh had been torn loose from its bolts to lie at the foot
of the wall. He shot one tortured, speculative glance at the six-inch
hole in the wall and then hastily backed out, hand to mouth against his
rising gorge.

The steel walls thrummed with the surge of the revved-up blowers. But
there was no answering draft screaming up into a gale from the air
grills. The lights flickered briefly, and then the blowers' thrum died.

"Shorted," a man muttered thickly.

More men were coming, sliding down the long poles until they reached
the stench which was now spreading up through the ship. As soon as
it hit their nostrils they gripped the poles to slow their descent,
cursing. Down the passageway, two of those who had arrived first were
now being sick.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pritchard leaned against the wall trying to keep his breathing shallow,
his eyes hard and steady on the open doorway and the lighted chamber
beyond. Gradually, all eyes were turning to him, waiting, their owners
breathing in short, labored gasps.

He stepped to the intercom. "All hands to the muster deck," he managed
to choke out. "That means everybody. And use extreme caution. Something
has boarded the ship and killed McManus. Listen to me. It is still
on board! Arm yourselves and report to the muster deck immediately.
Sturgis, step into the storeroom and break out the masks. Greene and
Majinski, help him. Use the lift to bring them to the muster deck. Got
it?"

Several strangling voices replied in order. Pritchard and Savage
crowded into the lift with the rest of the men and went aloft.

"What do you think it is, son?" said Savage. Pritchard shrugged.
"I don't know. What kind of thing or things could get through the
ventilating system?"

The old man pursed his lips. "That's right. That's how we smelled it
first. And then the blowers kicked off when all that compression backed
up to them. You're right, Mr. Pritchard, whatever it is, it's still in
the ducts."

The lift halted at the muster deck and the door slid open. "So here's
what we'll do," said Pritchard as they stepped off. The old man heard
him out and then nodded slowly, his rheumy eyes narrowing.

They waited while the men arrived, the whole ship's company of twenty
cadet hunters (less McManus, now) and five crewmen. They all stood
around eyeing Pritchard and the captain. The air was heavy with that
lurking stench, but it was not too thick here to be unbreathable.

As soon as the gas mask detail had shoved the last of the cartons off
the lift Pritchard started for the controls.

The muster deck was a heavily insulated circular chamber a bit forward
from amidships.

The entire ship could be controlled from there. In emergencies it could
be detached from the ship and used as a temporary space raft, having
all necessary supplies in its padded wall lockers.

"First," announced Pritchard, "we're going to button this ship up
tight." He reached for the ventilator switch and flicked it on.

Little motors all over the inner and outer hulls began wheeling shut
the valves that closed the six-inch holes that were the ventilating
system's intake and exhaust ports. In a matter of seconds the _Apollo_
would stop breathing the wine-like night air of Thisbe II.

On the wall above the switch little green lights began to blink off one
by one. As if gradually understanding his strategy, the men began to
move up behind Pritchard, their eyes on the bank of fiery green points
winking out.

The last little gem flickered, died, and then, strangely, flamed up
again.

And, just as it went out for good, the entire muster deck gave a lurch.
Feet scuffled, slipped, staggered. Here and there a body thudded to
the steel plates of the floor.

Pritchard's voice rose thundering above the abrupt commotion. "Grab
hold! Something's got the ship--something--"

The muster deck swung in a wild circle, men sliding helplessly,
caroming off the walls. Pritchard's flailing hand caught something and
his long bony fingers laced about it in a grip of steel.

In benumbed fascination, he saw his body lengthen out, straining
against that grip, appearing to levitate from the deck. The whole
chamber tilted slowly until it seemed to hang below him. Men were
slipping and falling down into the curved well of its farther wall,
but some had grabbed out at holds here and there--a door-pull, or a
stanchion, and dangled like Pritchard.

At the last instant he understood that the _Apollo_ was falling. He had
just time to pull himself up, to give his arm some play against the
shock to come--

The great pointed cylinder struck with an awesome, deafening
clangor--fell with a single bounce across its landing burn and settled
to roll over approximately one-third its circumference.

Pritchard's grip, he discovered later, was to the handle of a locked
chart drawer. The massive wrench of that impact straightened his arm
with a jerk, but at the same time the drawer's lock broke. He fell away
in a shower of sheet film just as the _Apollo_ rolled, and a curve of
smooth steel wall swung out to catch him and break his fall into a
plunging glide against a cushion of stunned men's bodies.

It was a miracle that nobody was seriously injured. The slowness of the
ship's fall at the outset, the curvature of walls, the general fitness
of trained minds and bodies--all combined to prevent anything more
serious than cuts and contusions.

Captain Savage was the first Pritchard pulled out of the tangle. The
wiry old man was unhurt, though dazed. In spite of his age he gamely
pulled himself together with a terrier-like shake.

"What hit us?" he croaked.

"I think whatever was in the ship did it," said Pritchard. "But then,
that must mean it's outside now. Think we sustained much damage?"

The old man scoffed. "Man, this ship was built for crash landings. The
surface glaze must be cracked. And all the supplies we broke out after
landing must be all over hell."

He gazed aloft at the muster deck's controls, now high overhead. "Have
to right her," he muttered, "but I can't get at them. I'll have to get
to the master set, I guess." His gaze switched dubiously to the hatch
leading to the nose, halfway up the curving wall. "I can set her back
up on her tail, firing the beam tubes."

"Majinski," called out Pritchard, "build a ladder or pyramid of men up
that hatch so the captain can get to the controls. Sturgis, you and
you and you--" he picked out half a dozen cadet hunters "--let's scout
through the ship. I want to be sure our friend has left."

It was awkward work, clambering over girders and through crazily
slanting doors and along upside down passages where, in deep space,
they floated past with ease. They held their snappers ready while
Pritchard opened door after door with the captain's magnekey.

They found something in the compression chamber of Number Two Blower.
What they found, after taking down the side panel, was a long, flopping
red thing--something like a ten-foot carrot, writhing and curling in on
itself wetly. It was a foot thick at its big end.

It fell out on the curving wall beneath the blower. They watched it
soberly as it twisted this way and that convulsively, contracting and
lengthening out. It gave off that same sickening odor.

"Is this what gave us all the trouble?" somebody demanded.

"No." Pritchard's nostrils flared slightly. "Just a part of it, that's
all. Most of it got away."

"_Most_ of it!"

He nodded slowly. "It was leaving when I started closing those ports.
It was leaving by this intake port--maybe the way it came in--and the
valve started to slice into it. In other words, we had it by the tail.
It tried to yank free and that's what tipped us over."

"Y-y-you mean--?" They stared at him, refusing to credit the
comprehension dawning in their minds.

"What else?" Pritchard's cheeks twitched in amusement.

"Hey, that's big!" said Sturgis softly.

"Quite big," murmured the tall hunter. "And quite intelligent if it
came for McManus."

Their jaws dropped and their eyes protruded glassily.

"On the other hand," went on Pritchard musingly, "it might not be as
smart as the person who sent it."


                                  IV

There was flame in the night, blinding flame, and raucous, screeching
thunder. And a great round of gleaming metal rising shudderingly on a
cone of dazzling, roaring light. Rising to teeter at last on the tips
of long, sweeping fins, teeter and rock and walk a bit on those blades
of tempered nickel-steel, until the swaying tower ceased to gyrate
sickeningly across the stars, its motion settling into a quickening,
shortening arc that died away into a tremble, a vibration, a stillness.

Captain Savage took his gnarled and stubby fingers away from the firing
manuals and sat down, drawing a sleeve across his sopping brows.

"Nice work," said Pritchard. "One push and no correction blasts. Thy
hand hath not lost its skill."

The old man took a deep breath and grinned. "It's work for a younger
man. Next time I'm going to let you do it. Or Sturgis."

"There won't be a next time," said Pritchard flatly.

The captain cocked a bright eye up at him. Pritchard gazed out a
viewport. The horizon of Thisbe II lay like a worn hacksaw blade
against the purple glow of Piramus, rising.

"Set watches," he said briefly. "The rest of the company can turn to
for six hours. Then Sturgis, Greene, Kemp and I are going off in the
jets."

"Fishing, I suppose?" said Savage with gentle irony.

Pritchard smiled coldly and shook his head. "No. Witch-hunting."

       *       *       *       *       *

Two plump silvery beetles screamed through the thin stratosphere high
above the little planet. Behind them, dropping below the horizon, a
needle stood gleaming in a black thumbprint. It was no longer possible
to make out the smudge marring the _Apollo's_ alabaster flank, much
less the team now hanging in buckets from eyebolts high in the nose,
chipping away the cracked and carbonized glaze--cracked by last night's
fall and carbonized by the hell-fires of the righting operation.

In one beetle rode the wiry Sturgis and stocky Kemp. In the other, the
rangy blond, Greene, handled the controls while Pritchard studied the
face of Thisbe II rolling slowly under them.

"Got any ideas yet as to what hit us last night?" said Greene.

"Nope." After righting the ship, they'd turned on the floodlights, but
neither then nor in the broad light of day was there any sign or trace
of their visitor. A burial detail had laid McManus the traditional six
feet into the crust of Thisbe II. The long red thing had flopped and
tossed startlingly as they sank hooks into it and dragged it off into
the grass.

"Must have been the tail of something big, huh? How come it got past
the radar?"

Pritchard shrugged and continued to peer attentively ahead.

"Sure is a mighty pretty hunk of country," sighed the blond boy. "In
places it reminds me of the stuff around the Cumberland Gap. If it
weren't for that lavender sunlight, that is."

Pritchard didn't answer, his eyes steadily sweeping the terrain
unfolding ahead.

"That was a hell of a thing happened to poor Tom last night," Greene
went on. "Do you figure he had much pain before it finished him?"

Pritchard made no response.

"Tom was a right good boy, and a hard man to beat once he had the
chance to get his feet under him. Remember the time big Hayes hit him?"

There was no answer. Greene sat relaxed, one foot on the rudder bar and
an index finger curled indolently around the jet firing toggle.

"Boy, old Hayes let him have it before Tom was set. Just like you
clipped him yesterday."

"I thought you'd say that." Pritchard's voice was even. "You an' the
rest of the boys want to be sure I don't forget that, don't you?"

"I wasn't meaning a thing, chief," complained the other. "Hell, we
understand. Tom made a mistake and--and--well...."

"You can pass the word," said Pritchard softly, his eyes remaining hard
on the vista ahead. "You can pass the word that I haven't forgotten the
last thing Tom McManus had from me. Nor am I likely to--"

He grabbed the mike. "Cut, Sturgis, cut! Cut and glide--after me."

Greene, following instructions meant for him, too, snapped the jet
toggle closed. The high-pitched thunder that had been chasing them
across the sky was chopped off into utter silence.

"What you got?" he managed to say and then Pritchard's hip swung
against him, neatly bowling him off the seat as the tall hunter thrust
his feet toward the rudder bar.

"Stand by to fire," snapped Pritchard over his shoulder. The younger
man lurched toward the rocket controls in the nose in front of
Pritchard as the jet cruiser heeled silently over into a dive.

       *       *       *       *       *

The bowl of Thisbe II tilted up toward them and its features steadied
in the face of that arrowing plunge. Dead ahead lay a meandering thread
of river stitching up a wide, jungle-filled valley. At one point the
river either split in two or broadened momentarily into a lake. At any
rate, there was an island, right above the little flight-sight bead on
the jet cruiser's prow.

The island swelled into detail. It was fairly large, for up from its
center thrust one of those strange rock mountains, the three straight
planes of its cleavage converging in a jagged, towering peak, making it
seem an elongated triangular pyramid that had been driven forth at a
slant and had then had its extreme tip snapped off. The primrose light
of Piramus high above reflected now in a dazzling shimmer from one
flank.

At its base, or at the base of one impossibly machine-smooth wall,
there was a semi-circular mark, as if someone had carelessly strewn
dirt across the olive-hued turf. The grains and clods of this dirt
resolved themselves, as the jets whined on down, into a twinkling,
tumbling cluster of ants--with gnats hovering and darting. Then they
became something larger.

Greene turned to shout excitedly at Pritchard, but at that instant
Sturgis's voice cracked from the two-way mike Pritchard had hung above
him.

"Hey, chief, aren't those some of that girl's animals?"

"Right," barked Pritchard. "That's a big rumpus down there. Follow me
on down for a look. Then I think we'll try a couple of passes."

"Passes? At what?"

"Those are Miss Boyce's 'people', all right. They're fighting."

There was no further chance to talk. Pritchard and Sturgis gripped
their separate toggles almost simultaneously and their jets roared into
life, feeding power to their dives for a pull-out. The ground-contact
alarm chattered its warning that they were coming too close.

As soon as the jets took hold, the pilots leaned back, pushing hard
against the rudder bars. The tail elevators lifted into the slipstream,
and the two silver beetles howled through a long pendulum swing that
flung them far off into the sky.

But the trained eyes aboard them had ticked off the essential details
of the amazing battle being waged through the tall grass toward the
mountain.

"Holy rockets!" came from the blond head in front of Pritchard. "That's
a regular battle line they're holding. Did you see those babies
fighting!"

"Hey, chief," cracked Sturgis, "What goes on down there, anyway? Who's
fighting whom? Or what's fighting which?"

Pritchard trimmed off into level flight before answering. "As far
as I can make out, Cornelia Boyce's people are under attack, but I
can't figure out who's doing the attacking. They're trying to hold
that defense arc, but they're being snowed under. They're catching it
from the air as well as on the ground. I recognize the animals inside
that line. They're her people, all right. But I can't make out the
attackers."

He banked the cruiser around toward that now miles-distant little spine
of mountain.

Sturgis's ship followed him around as if fastened by a wire.

"They looked like reptiles and big insects."

"That's what they looked like to me. I don't remember seeing any of
them yesterday--except for that bad dream I tried to shoot away from
McManus."

"Anyway, there's sure a mob of them," cut in Sturgis. "The water all
around that island is alive with them."

"That kid was right about one thing," said Pritchard. "There's a much
higher level of intelligence here than you'd find in Terran animals,
for instance. But never mind that now. Listen, boys, this is a planned
and directed attack. And we're going to buy ourselves a stack of chips
and sit in on the game. But, first, did anybody see the girl?"

"No," cracked the mike, and Greene shook his head.

"Well, I've got a hunch she's down there. She's mixed up in this
somehow. I've a feeling a big battle like this is pretty unusual. This
has all the earmarks of a war of extermination. And if those are her
'people' protecting her--something, or somebody, has her cornered."

"Could be," came Sturgis's voice. "But, then, who's this somebody or
something?"

"I don't know. I don't care. This scrap's nothing to us. But we want
the wench, boys. We want her on account of last night. And maybe
for a couple of other reasons. She'd better come home for a little
psychotherapy, for one thing. Now, here's our plan of attack...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Like the pointer of a sundial, the jagged spear of mountain lay its
deep blue shadow across the curve of battle, as if to mark off the
dwindling hours and minutes of life for those who struggled, writhed
and lay with glazing eyes in that long ribbony grass, now mashed and
matted flat for acres in every direction, its pliant green-brown blades
stained and mottled dark.

Red-eyed and snorting, the slate-gray boars stood shoulder to shoulder
from one end of the arc to the other. As each one fell, the others
closed ranks, shuffling backwards until their hides rubbed together
again. Close behind them stood a thinning line of great scaled bears,
clawing and biting what got past the boars. In and out among all their
stiffly planted legs ran the lesser carnivores and the canines,
snapping and worrying at the things creeping through the grass. Behind,
in the shrinking zone of defense, roved the six-legged bovines and
equines, and the leaping ones, and the shaggy-maned gorillas, prancing,
goring, trampling, crushing. Overhead circled and hovered a swarm of
hawks and condors, plunging and tearing.

Against them came a nightmare horde. Those that could not fly or
swim made clumsy rafts from odds and ends of vegetation and branches
plundered from the jungle; some scurried across on swaying creepers,
all along the banks.

Crawling, creeping things, reptilian and crustacean and multi-legged,
undulating and gliding, disappearing into the grass to emerge at
the last deadly moment. Scurrying, spiny things were there in
force--scuttling over the mashed-flat grass in beady-eyed haste to
be in at the kill. Above them flew skull-headed, mandible-snapping
horrors, with membranous wings.

There were no tactics other than individual duel and the wearing down
by sheer weight of numbers. Aloft, the winged ones met, clashed and
fell, buzzing and flapping. Below, tusk and fang and claw and beak and
hoof mandible rent and tore and worried and stung. The long, vicious
lizards and the sudden-striking snakes kept coming through only to go
down under churning, stamping hooves or be shredded by horns and claws
and fangs.

Yet the battle was unequal. Slowly and wearily, the defenders gave
before the superior numbers, the more skillful killing. The bodies they
left dotting the meadow began to outnumber the crushed remains of the
things they fought.

Deep in a cleft in the base of the mountain crouched a young Terran
female. Every inch of her brown body shaking in helpless terror.

Cornelia Boyce's left hand gripped the handle of her long knife, still
in its sheath. She would need it any time now.

For The One was coming for her at last. Why it had ordered Its people
against hers, calling them with Its vicious mind from the far corners
of this world, instead of coming for her directly, she didn't know.
Perhaps It regarded her as the lesser objective and relegated the task
of smashing her and her converts to this horde, while It moved against
the ship. Perhaps It regarded the ship of the hunters with the same
contempt It had had for the Survey ship and was moving against her
first--and was using this battle to toy with her, show her death, as it
were. Perhaps there was some other reason. It didn't matter. Nothing
mattered any more, for this was the end.

It had tolerated her. For four of Thisbe II's years--not quite three
Terran years--The One had left her alone, almost, it would seem,
keeping out of her way. It was as if It realized that she, the only one
of her kind to survive the debacle at the Survey camp, was essentially
harmless. It had not minded her attempts to win over and tame and
domesticate some of the people. After all, she had converted only the
weaker and gentler of them with her synthetabs; she had gained control
over only a small percentage of the killers, the lesser carnivores. No,
she had never really threatened The One's dominance.

Pritchard was right. Now that her carefully woven veil of illusion was
torn away, she knew that there were killers. Everywhere. Always had
been. Killers, killers, killers....

The One proved that. It killed a hundred times a day. This world
was Its preserve and It roamed and fed and slew as It chose, only
occasionally for food. Perhaps this was the only reason for existence,
in the last analysis--in a cruel Cosmos one lived only to be killer or
killed.

It mattered not. This was the end. Angered by the advent of more of
her kind, It had no doubt decided to wipe out both her and them,
recognizing in them all a degree of intelligence which, in force, could
threaten Its control. It would move against the ship, if indeed It had
not already done so.

But It would certainly destroy her. This attack would have no other
meaning.

But she would cheat It. The One could not move faster than her knife!

There was not much time now, and certainly no hope. The battle raging
before her was mounting to its inevitable bloody climax.

Her people could not hold out much longer. Their courage and faith and
loyalty might not survive so terrible an ordeal. Were not some of the
birds already winging away to distant refuge?

It was too bad. She would have liked to see the tall hunter once more
before she.... His eyes had been so piercing! She had forgotten what a
man could be like. If only she had not been so balky yesterday!

But it was not to be. He had come, in one of those two jet cruisers,
thundering across the killer-infested meadow, and he had gone. He
had seen and not understood. Battles between alien beasts were of no
concern to him. He might even return, to make cam-rec footage from
aloft of this amazing battle.

Hope flashed. She could signal him! What could she use?

How could she catch a roving eye in a ten-mile-a-minute jet?

She tossed up her head, eyes suddenly narrowed.

Something came screaming around the mountain above her, followed by a
second screaming something.

Then hell erupted beyond the battle line. Blast followed concussive
blast, causing the big gorillas to cower and the other ones to charge
about in helpless panic. Between the jarring blasts sounded the
rippling crackle of dual-mounted automatic snappers.

The screams faded off into the sky. A stunned silence reigned along the
battle perimeter. An acrid smoke drifted over the ground.

Then, just as groups were sporadically renewing their death-grips here
and there, the twin screams sounded beyond the mountain again.


                                   V

"Two laps around the track and then to the showers!" yelled Greene, his
fingers dancing over the rocket release and snapper buttons.

Leaning back against the rudder bar, Pritchard grinned. "You forget the
passes along the river banks. They make it four laps."

Then he threw a quick glance over his shoulder, but he couldn't make
much through the welter of rising dirt columns.

They came around the mountain in a tight curve. As they flattened for
a run on the meadow they could see things scurrying for the water. The
meadow itself was a churned and pitted mess. Bodies were thickly strewn
everywhere.

"There she is!" yelled Sturgis. "You were right, chief. See her--over
by the mountain?"

A tiny figure, mounted on a six-legged equine, was riding furiously
back and forth. The defense arc was swelling outward, as her "people"
rose to the offensive and began charging the demoralized attackers.

Then the two cruisers were racing through their run on the as yet
unstrafed portion of the meadow furthest from the mountain. Sturgis's
craft bucked as it rode the shock-waves from Greene's rocket blasts.
As they shot in a wide curve around the other side of the mountain
Pritchard said, "We'd better skip our last pass. Let's just sit down
and work in close. I don't want her to get away."

They cut jets and floated in over the jungle, side-slipping to lose
speed. With feather-light fingers at their controls, the cruisers
skimmed the trampled meadow grass and touched down their wheels. As
they rolled, Pritchard and Sturgis flung open cockpit windows and let
bright fire from their flamers spew over the ground, while Greene and
Kemp sprayed right and left with their snappers.

Things struggled in the crisping, burning grass, crackling and
roasting. Even as he turned the nozzle this way and that, Pritchard's
face was a mask of disgust. All around the slowing ships, Cornelia's
"people" galloped and raced with a vengeful, slaying lust.

"All out," said Pritchard. "Everybody take a flamer. We'll have to burn
a path to the girl."

They climbed out and began walking toward the mountain four abreast,
flame billowing ahead of them. There seemed to be only dead things in
their path.

Then, suddenly, the girl was there, astride a magnificent six-legged
equine type of animal, shaggy of coat and rather broad in the head.
She had ridden around the wall of fire and her mount was trembling and
shaking its head.

They turned off the flamers and stared up at her. Rumbling, whinnying
sounds came from the equine's throat. She grunted and cooed back, as if
soothing it. Then she turned her eyes on the men below.

"We wish to thank you." Her pale face was drawn and there was a
suspicion of tears in her voice. "You came just in time."

She seemed small and absurdly girlish perched on that long back. Those
inadequate strips of hide were still her only covering.

Pritchard nodded shortly. "If you'll be so good as to keep your
be--people--out of our way, we'll sterilize this island. Just burn off
all the cover and see to it there's none of them left. Why don't you
herd your--uh--friends over onto what we've already--"

"That won't be necessary," she cut in. "They'll all be gone in another
minute."

"What makes you so sure of that?"

"The One is probably calling them off."

"The--what?"

She put her face in her hands. Pritchard frowned his puzzlement. How
had so helpless a child managed to survive in a world like this?

"I'd like very much to know what this is all about, Miss Boyce," he
said gently. "In fact, the reason we happened along is that we are
looking for you. We thought you might be able to explain what happened
last night."

As he told her, she lifted her face from her hands and her brimming
eyes grew round. Before he had finished describing what they had found
in the blower, she was shaking her head in despair.

"This is all your doing. This world was at peace until you came. Now
The One is aroused. You see, it was The One that went into your ship--"

"The One?" A crispness came into his voice. "Miss Boyce, I think you'd
better start at the beginning and give us a complete explanation. Just
exactly what is this 'One' you keep talking about?"

       *       *       *       *       *

She closed her eyes again. A slight shudder ran through her body and
she shook her head dazedly.

"The One," she murmured, "is after us all now. It began by entering
your ship. Then It sent Its people against mine--against me. It won't
stop until It has destroyed us all, and It--It's something I'd just as
lief not describe.

"My people call it something which I have translated as 'The One'. To
them, it means 'first', or 'leader', or something like that. It was in
control of all the people here on Thisbe when the Survey arrived, and
I'm afraid It still is. It wants to remain in control. You see, It's
quite intelligent."

"I can believe that," Pritchard said. "It not only figured out how to
get into the ship, but it also figured out how to find McManus."

"Oh, no, I don't believe it just went after him. Wasn't his cabin the
nearest to the place it entered?"

"Well, yes, as a matter of fact, it was."

"Oh, you don't understand The One as I do," she cried. "It would never
be satisfied with just one. It came into your ship to feed on all of
you. McManus was just the first person It found. From what you tell me,
It wasn't even finished with him. There wouldn't be--anything--left...."

"Then why did It go away?"

"I couldn't tell you. Perhaps when your blower short-circuited, it
arced a little. The One is very sensitive to fire. But It's not
through. It will come back, one way or another."

"I think we can deal with it if it does," Pritchard smiled. "And it
sent these unpleasant things at you? How can it do that?" He shot an
appraising glance around the torn and bloody meadow with its mounds of
dead and dying things.

When he turned back the girl was weeping. Sobs she could not suppress
were shaking those nut-brown, rounded shoulders. "It has some kind
of mental control," came her muffled voice. "Besides, they fear It
dreadfully. Oh, my people, my poor people."

"Well, now, look," soothed Pritchard, "it's all over now. You'd better
come back with us. I guess you've learned you can't make people out of
all these animals. Besides, you've got an interesting story to tell the
Board--"

"D-damn the B-B-Board," she said a little unsteadily. "Then you'll take
me with you?"

Pritchard smiled his broadest smile. "But of course!"

"Then let's hurry," she pleaded. "We have so little time."

"Why? What's the hurry?"

"The One! The One!" she burst out in sudden anxiety. "It'll come for us
any minute, don't you understand?"

"Okay, okay," soothed Pritchard. He and the others were smiling at
her excitement, when her equine suddenly reared so suddenly that she
tumbled off. They started to her assistance, but she landed light as a
cat on her feet. She stared wildly about her.

The equine uttered a growl and galloped off. The girl remained
crouched, her eyes darting in every direction.

"Now what?" said Pritchard.

"The One," she breathed. "It's somewhere near. My sextuped would never
have bolted like that otherwise."

"Oh, for Pete's sake," said Pritchard, taking her arm. "Come on--"

"Say, Mr. Pritchard, what's that thing over there?" Kemp pointed off to
his left.

"Oh, God, no...." Cornelia's voice was a quavering moan.

Pritchard glanced where the stocky lad was pointing. What appeared to
be an exceptionally tall and unusually red grass blade was wavering
gently, as if bending to a mild breeze, about fifty yards off.

"Hell," muttered Sturgis, "that face is familiar."

Pritchard started walking toward it, the others following him. "Let's
fan out a bit," he said, "until we see what this is."

"Come back, come back," came the girl's agonized whisper behind them.
"Don't go near...."

They ignored her. At a distance of ten yards Pritchard halted. They all
watched with consuming curiosity.

The slender red thing was growing. Or, rather, it was pouring out of
the ground, crumbs of dirt sticking to its glistening scarlet wetness,
its delicately tapering tip now some ten or twelve feet in the air.

Pritchard shifted the flamer tank on his shoulders and started to say,
"I think--", when a maned gorilla loping across the meadow some hundred
yards away gave a sudden scream and broke into a wild, shambling run
in the other direction. Another animal gave bellowing voice, and
another--and abruptly there was commotion, spreading over the island
toward the mountain.

Pritchard cleared his throat. "Get around it, boys. Let it keep coming,
but when I say the word give it a lick of fire."

The waving red spire stood some fifteen feet high now. As he
circled into his position with the others, he noticed two things
simultaneously. Another little scarlet tip was questing up through the
trampled grass close to the first one. And, out of the corner of his
eye he could see the animals that were Cornelia's people streaming
either way along the base of the mountain, in a frenzied rout to get to
the river on the other side.

Then Cornelia's hands were clenching his arm, her voice panting
hysterically in his ear. "Run, Pritchard! You don't know what you're up
against. Oh, believe me," she sobbed, "please, please, please believe
me. This is The One."

His eyes focusing on the growing scarlet tips--the second one had grown
almost as high as the first--Pritchard smiled indulgently. "We're going
to stay for the fun," he said. "What happened to all your friends?
Stampeded, didn't they?"

She opened her mouth to reply but her answer was cut off by Greene's
sudden scream.

Greene screamed as McManus had screamed last night. Screamed and sank
writhing to his knees. Some kind of frothing slime was running down
over his shoulders and chest, dissolving the acid-repellent cordron
jacket, running down over Greene from what had been his head.

From between the bases of the now thick, tall red tongues, another jet
of liquid squirted toward Sturgis. He leaped sideways and it missed him
clean. "Holy Damn!" he shouted.

Pritchard gripped the flamer's trigger. "Give it hell!" he roared.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three streams of fire converged in a ball of flame on the twin red
spires. They disappeared in the rippling, booming fire.

"Hold it!" Pritchard shut off his flamer and the others followed suit.
Holding the nozzle before him, he walked to the place where the things
had been.

There was nothing there, except a hole where the tangled grass had been
disturbed, and a kind of pit in the ground, into which loose dirt was
still dribbling. He backed a step and turned the flamer on, playing
fire into the pit and around it. Then he shut it off.

"You fool," came the girl's voice at his elbow. "You damned fool. You
just won't believe me, will you?"

Pritchard lifted his gaze toward what had once been Cadet Greene.
Richard Harrison Greene, a rollicking lad from the Cumberland Gap.
Thomas Guilfoyle McManus, a man with a red-haired soul. McManus, first,
and, now, Greene. The hunter's face was turned to stone.

"Keep your eyes peeled," he said harshly to the others and stalked
off to the place where the squirt of liquid had landed after missing
Sturgis. Some thirty feet from where it had been ejected, there was no
grass but a four-foot smear where the ground bubbled and frothed. The
stench hovering over this spot was incredible, even to the man who had
encountered it before.

He turned to confront Cornelia who had followed him. "I don't know
whether I can get it through your thick head or not," she bit out,
"you've simply got to get out of here. You can't--"

"Get this through _your_ thick head, Miss Boyce," said Pritchard
between clenched teeth. "This thing, whatever it is, has killed two of
my men. I'm quite ready to believe it is intelligent, possibly the most
intelligent organism on this planet. But it's a killer just the same
and we're going to kill it. None of your idealistic theories are going
to stop us, either."

She stared at him, beginning to shake her head a little wildly. "You
can't kill it! That's what I'm trying to tell you. It can't be k--"

There was a sudden crash. Cornelia whirled and screamed. The three men
and the girl stood transfixed.

Over by the river one of the jet cruisers was on its side, resting on
a crumpled wing. The other was forty feet in the air, and rising, held
in the coil of an impossible red monstrosity rearing its long wet self
into the sky.

It was a worm, a very long, thin worm at least a hundred feet long, not
counting what remained underground. It towered some fifty feet into the
air, about thirty-five feet more of it wrapped around the cruiser. At
its tip two fifteen-feet-long feelers writhed and wriggled, as if still
smarting from the scorching they had received.

The coil slipped a little. The cruiser, looking more than ever like a
beetle at this moment, slid slowly out and fell. And again it crashed
into the cruiser on the ground and rolled ponderously off it.

"Good ... God!" came Sturgis's voice shakily at Pritchard's elbow. The
Chief Hunter was still too appalled to speak. He stared as the worm's
rope-like body came curving down out of the sky, down to the cruisers
again. Seeing how that red length alternately thinned to a one-foot
thickness and swelled again to three feet and more as it oozed around
the cruiser that had remained on the ground, he had a vision of how it
had entered the _Apollo_, shrinking itself to a mere six-inch thread
that poured through the intake port, seeping along the duct, swelling,
bulging at McManus's air-grill ... and coming out of the ground,
probably close to the ship, it had evaded the radar field.

Cornelia's agonized face swam before his eyes. He felt his body shaking
in the grip of her slender hands. Words--

"--fool, run! _Listen to me!_ It's busy smashing your ships. We have a
chance. Run--to the mountain! Oh, dear God...."

At first he was like a sleep-walker. They turned him around and pushed
him into a stumbling run, but his head turned back, his eyes large and
almost vacant on that scene by the river.

Then he was running. It was a good two hundred yards to the mountain,
but the grass was mashed to a springy tangle under their feet and they
had only to skirt the thickly-strewn bodies. The girl took the lead,
the men not far in the rear, the nozzles of their flamers flapping out
behind them.

A crash, followed by a dull roar, came to them. They shot quick glances
over their shoulders. The fuel tanks of one of the cruisers had let go
and fire was blooming from the now distant beetle. The worm was arching
wildly away, and then sinking in a curve to the ground.

"How fast--can it go--on the--surface?" panted Pritchard.

"Much faster--than under--ground!" Cornelia muttered.


                                  VI

She was leading the way to the thin, rough ridge that marched up the
mountain between two of its smooth planes of fracture. She sprang to
the ridge and began running lightly up it. At twenty feet she stopped.

The men were slower. The ridge was nothing but saw-toothed points of
raw rock, hard and glassy and glittering. They had not had the girl's
practice with it.

She motioned Kemp past her and called down to Pritchard. "This is our
only hope. I've never seen The One on any of these mountains. I'm sure
It can't climb the smooth sides--"

"And we can hold It back with our flamers. Good girl."

"But hadn't we better get a little higher?" queried Sturgis.

"Higher!" echoed the girl. "We've got to get to the top!"

Frantically, they climbed, taking insane chances, fantastically
insecure holds, scrambling, cutting their hands on the raw rock edges,
living a nightmare....

At last Kemp and Cornelia, weak with exhaustion, sank against the
ridge, gasping and heaving. Sturgis, next in line, had no breath with
which to berate them. He could only crouch there and stare helplessly
at them both.

Pritchard braced his feet and dared to look down. The One was a
straight red line across the meadow, a gleam of highlight from Its wet
side where the afternoon sun struck It. (Unconsciously he thought of It
now as Cornelia did, as a person.) It was heading for the foot of the
ridge.

They all stared down, sucking in their tortured breaths. Waiting for It
to reach the ridge and start climbing, Pritchard found himself studying
It detachedly. He realized his courage and reason were somehow reviving.

It was, after all, a worm. It differed from a six-inch Terran
night-crawler only in that It measured about a hundred and fifty feet
in length, and was proportionately much thinner, like a snake. It also
differed in those snail-like tips that probed out into slim, delicate
points or contracted into thick stubs scarce six feet long. Those tips
were investigating the jagged rock of the ridge now.

And he saw that there were tips at the other end, too. But one was
missing. Only a round stump accompanied the other long trailing
feeler. It was a fair index of The One's terrible strength, Pritchard
thought--realizing where the rest of that tip was now--that, in
trying to wrench Itself clear, It had knocked over a hundred-foot,
five-thousand-ton space ship.

"It's coming," said Kemp in a shrill, brittle voice. The hunter shot a
glance at the stocky youth and saw he was fighting hysteria.

The One was rippling slowly up the ridge. Pritchard guessed Its speed
was greater than it seemed at that distance. Like a scarlet river, It
poured steadily up.

"After I've used this," said Cornelia in an even, conversational voice,
"you gentlemen can have it if you don't mind having to pull it out of
me." She held up her long knife, and there was no expression on her
face.

Kemp and Sturgis could only stare at her. Pritchard couldn't warn her
by asking them to take it away from her, and anyway this was no place
for a wrestle.

"And why do you think we would want that?" he asked in as pleasant a
tone as he could manage.

"So much better than a flamer or jumping," she replied. "Take my advice
and--"

"I wish you would pull yourself together," said Pritchard. "You're
frightening Kemp up there."

Startled, Kemp stared back down at his chief, and then he closed his
mouth in a firm line. Pritchard congratulated himself that the remark
was a stone that had slain two birds.

"You don't honestly think there's a way out of this," exclaimed
Cornelia, "with--with--"

"What I wouldn't give for my snapper!" breathed Kemp.

"Or one of those five-inchers," and Sturgis jerked his head at the
little tumbled beetles over at the river.

"There isn't a rocket-tube down there I'd trust now," said Pritchard.
"They're all bunged out of alignment. Some of the snappers might still
be in shape to use...." His voice trailed off. Something was taking
shape in his thoughts, something revolving about a word Cornelia had
uttered--the word "jump."

"Well, what _can_ we do?" muttered Sturgis tensely. The worm was still
well below, but coming steadily up. They could see the little scarlet
tips now, questing over the jagged edges. Behind was all humping
redness.

"We were very foolish--" Pritchard checked himself. "I was very
foolish. I permitted us to be outmaneuvered. The one thing that monster
doesn't want is for one of us to get back to the cruisers--"

"I've been thinking," Sturgis cut in. "Why don't we empty all our
flamer tanks along the ridge here, climb all the way to the top and
then, as soon as it's almost there, spark the fuel and give it a good
roasting?"

Pritchard shook his head. "I thought of that. You forget how volatile
that stuff is. By the time it gets there--no, I've got a better use for
the flamers."

He began unstrapping the tank from his shoulders. "Kemp, pass yours on
down. No, hang on to it, just in case. Sturgis, you take my position
and hold It off as long as you can--" He glanced at the gauge on the
light plastic tank and shook his head grimly. "Okay, children, let's
get going--to the top."

The mountain wasn't really much of a mountain, being only some five
hundred feet high. Their first frantic scramble up the ridge had
carried them almost two-thirds of the way.

Behind them, the worm was flowing steadily upward, like a river of
blood, along the narrow ridge.

"Kemp," panted Pritchard as the short young man finally and painfully
inched over the knife-edged peak.

Kemp turned, stretching out a hand to Cornelia to help her up and over.
"Yes?"

"I'm putting this girl in your charge. She's your responsibility--"

"What are you going to do?" put in Cornelia quickly.

Pritchard looked up into those gray-green eyes so intent upon him.
A pang of regret stabbed through him. He was no longer seeing her
sweet-lined body. Here was a girl he could have ridden the starways
with. A person with enough courage and resource to have held her own
in this killer-infested Eden.

"I'm taking a powder, as they used to say back on good old Terra. I'm
gambling. Gambling that I can get back to the one cruiser that hasn't
burnt up all its wiring, and call the ship." He slapped the leg-pocket
of his breeches. Kemp nodded. The pocket contained a ready-packed
emergency chute.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cornelia shook her head slowly. "You'll never make it--"

"He might," said Kemp.

"I'll bet I can," said Pritchard. "I've got to."

"The One will get you," she said. "It can get into one of those things
easily. It'll take only a little of Its digestive juice...." Her face
puckered and those emerald eyes shone brighter, but she fought for and
regained control.

"So?" Pritchard smiled. "You'll be well rid, then, of that notorious
big-game hunter, Elmer Pritchard."

"I don't want to be rid of him," she said softly. "I want him with
me--at the end."

He bowed. "Thank you, Miss Boyce."

"Call me Cornelia, please."

"And you," he said, "may call me Elmer--a name I permit no one to
use--" he bent forward "--but you, now."

Their lips brushed and clung.

"Fine time for love-making," muttered Kemp.

Below them, a flamer squealed suddenly. Sturgis, unknown to them, had
lingered behind. Now, a hundred feet down the ridge, he fired a burst
at the worm--a warning burst, for the dread feelers hung high above his
head on a long, curving tendon of red wetness.

The flamer had an effective range of only thirty feet, but the slimy
scarlet rope curved away, dropping off to one side and extending
out into the air. The feelers contracted to mere knobs and the end
thickened into a club.

A haymaker, drawing back, poised and cocked. Pritchard saw it and
howled, "Sturgis! Duck!"

But there was to be no ducking that swing. Sturgis hugged the thin
spine of crag and threw up a blossom of fire. But the rope came
flailing about, slashing through the flame, and neatly flicked him off.

They watched the body arcing out over the meadow, the spare flamer of
Pritchard twisting after it, and saw it sink on down, to stop suddenly
against the turf.

Kemp began to curse. Pritchard pulled the emergency chute pack from his
leg-pocket and began snapping the light harness about his long frame.

"Cut that out," he said coldly. "Just hang on, Kemp, and watch. If I've
got this baby figured out right, It's going to lose interest in you two
in about as many seconds."

"Good-bye, Elmer," came Cornelia's voice forlornly.

The worm's first half was recovering from the follow-through of that
swing, draping itself back along the ridge yard by relentless yard.
Pritchard turned, holding the chute cord in his fist. He forced a grin
that he was afraid looked more like a grimace. "So long, kiddies," he
said, and jumped.

At this point the leaning peak overhung the ground and he flung himself
as far out as possible, trying for distance. The smooth, almost
polished wall slanted away from him and the meadow swung upward.

He pulled the cord at the last minute. As the filmy neosilk billowed
above him, and the harness seemed to jerk him back up from the
onrushing ground, he managed to twist a glance back up at the ridge.

The One was motionless. That was good.

It had seen him.

Then he drew up his knees. The ground slammed into him and he lay
there, stunned, letting the filmy folds flutter down over him.

Then he was up, bruised but whole, on his knees and scrabbling out from
under the light gray stuff. By crawling under every line he avoided
entanglement and in a minute was clear and running, unsnapping the
harness as he went.

Not until he was well away from the mountain did he dare a glance over
his shoulder. Then he almost stumbled, at the chill terror gusting
through him, freezing every muscle.

The worm was a red festoon, drooping from the ridge. Even as he looked,
Its whole length came off, to fall writhing out of sight momentarily at
the base of the mountain.

He hadn't expected that. He had planned for It to back laboriously
down the way It came, giving him a decent margin of time. But it had
crossed him up. Now he had seconds instead of minutes.

He put his head down and dug in, pumping his tired, aching legs
furiously. This was the worst gamble of his career, against the longest
odds. He had no idea how fast the worm could go on level ground.

Suddenly, he was racing a shadow. In the slanting light of Piramus,
setting through the afternoon, something like an elongated caricature
of a snail's head crept across the grass beside him--two long slivers
of tapering purple shadow.

Then he saw his flamer, lying almost dead ahead where it had landed
after being catapulted off the ridge. Sobs rasping his throat, he
slanted toward it, dove and rolled, to come up clutching it.

There was a spattering sound close by, a spatter that changed to an
angry fizzing. Pritchard swung the nozzle up in the very face of the
glistening red column swaying toward him. He squeezed the handle-grip.

Through the booming flame, he saw the shape twisting aside and followed
it with fire. It went down to the ground, backing away into a swelling
body. The worm writhed desperately away from that searing plume of
licking flames.

Pritchard wheeled and ran toward the cruiser that had not burned.

Evil-smelling juice slashed across the upturned belly of the ship as he
savagely wrenched open the buckled door and tumbled in, dragging the
flamer in after him. He stumbled across the roof-struts and lunged for
the upside-down radio panel.

The cruisers' radios were on their own battery-powered circuits.
He snapped the power on and heard the slow hum and sputter of the
warming tubes. He poked in the button labeled AUT. EM. SIG. a standard
repeating distress call on a tight beam.

Then he was flung against the opposite wall. As he struggled back to
his feet, pressure against them told him the cruiser was rising, and he
knew very well it was not doing so under its own power.

A glistening red wall bulged against the door-frame through which he
had come. Pritchard realized that once again the cruiser was being
hoisted aloft in the worm's coil. It was going to drop him, to kill
him quickly, rather than poke inside and face his flamer.

Pritchard snatched the flamer and staggered toward the opening. Jabbing
the nozzle into that scarlet slime, he gripped the handles.

       *       *       *       *       *

Roaring heat beat back at him. He braced himself, ignoring his own
singeing flesh and crisping hair.

The cruiser struck ground with a crash. He was flung sideways, threw up
an arm, and heard it snap. He dragged himself to the door which now was
turned to the ground. Gritting his teeth against the pain, Pritchard
hung his head through the opening and peered out.

It was a crazy nightmare. The meadow was a ceiling, to his inverted
eyes, against which a giant red riband rolled and writhed in fantastic
configurations. Every melting convolution, every arching loop,
expressed pain and wrath. And, now and again, a livid blotch appeared
along its length, alternately turning purple and yellow, and dripping
streamers of drool.

Then came a sound, a great tearing sound in the sky. Pritchard hauled
himself back into the ship and crawled to the radio. He switched off
the automatic signal and cut in the transmission band.

"--the hell you got down there?" came Captain Savage's rasp. "Is that
you up on the rock, Mr. Pritchard? Mr. Pritchard--"

"Captain!" yelled Pritchard. "Step on it! Come down on that monster.
I'm all right. Come ahead!"

Then he snatched up a pair of solar goggles and worked his way to a
viewport, in time to see the _Apollo_, a magnificent column of metal in
the sky, descend on a pillar of incandescence--at the bottom of which
lay something that bubbled and cooked, rising in a last great arch of
simmering agony.

The snaggle-toothed horizon of Thisbe II was rising across the dull
indigo disk of setting Piramus. Pritchard and Savage sat in their
gimbal chairs in the Forward Lounge. The old man's wispy white hairs
stirred in the evening breeze sucked in by the blowers.

"And every time I wonder if my hunting days aren't over," sighed
Pritchard. Experimentally, he worked on the flexicast on his right arm.

"Huh," grunted the captain. "Not you. One week on Terra and you'll be
telling yourself the next time it just can't be as bad. Or that this
wasn't as bad as it seemed. Anything, you'll tell yourself. Anything to
start--"

Cornelia appeared in the doorway. "Good evening, gentlemen," she said
coolly. She was wearing cordron slacks and a soft neosilk blouse, that
seemed to enjoy clinging to her contours.

"Good evening," croaked Captain Savage. He stood up, and stretched
restlessly.

"Oh, don't go," said Cornelia.

"Well, if we're blasting off in the morning, I've got things to do.
These days it's the old men who do all the work." He chuckled as he
eased past her through the door, and gave her shoulder a little pat.
"Good hunting."

The girl watched him go down the passage. "Whatever did he mean by
that?" she inquired. "'Good hunting'."

"Oh, it's just an expression," said Pritchard vaguely.

She came over to him and turned about on her bare feet. "No shoes that
fit," she said. "How do you like what I managed to scrounge from the
men?"

He pulled her down to him with one lazy reach of his good arm. "I'm
afraid," he murmured, "that I liked you better the way you were."

"You know," she spoke muffledly against his shoulder, "you're something
of a beast."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AS IT WAS ***

***** This file should be named 63953-0.txt or 63953-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/9/5/63953/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

