Project Gutenberg's Queen of the Martian Catacombs, by Leigh Brackett

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Queen of the Martian Catacombs

Author: Leigh Brackett

Release Date: December 4, 2020 [EBook #63956]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK QUEEN OF THE MARTIAN CATACOMBS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                    Queen Of The Martian Catacombs

                           By LEIGH BRACKETT

            Gaunt giant and passionate beauty, they dragged
              their thirst-crazed way across the endless
            crimson sands in a terrible test of endurance.
              For one of them knew where cool life-giving
              water lapped old stones smooth--a place of
              secret horror that it was death to reveal!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1949.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


For hours the hard-pressed beast had fled across the Martian desert
with its dark rider. Now it was spent. It faltered and broke stride,
and when the rider cursed and dug his heels into the scaly sides, the
brute only turned its head and hissed at him. It stumbled on a few more
paces into the lee of a sandhill, and there it stopped, crouching down
in the dust.

The man dismounted. The creature's eyes burned like green lamps in the
light of the little moons, and he knew that it was no use trying to
urge it on. He looked back, the way he had come.

In the distance there were four black shadows grouped together in the
barren emptiness. They were running fast. In a few minutes they would
be upon him.

He stood still, thinking what he should do next. Ahead, far ahead, was
a low ridge, and beyond the ridge lay Valkis and safety, but he could
never make it now. Off to his right, a lonely tor stood up out of the
blowing sand. There were tumbled rocks at its foot.

"They tried to run me down in the open," he thought. "But here, by the
Nine Hells, they'll have to work for it!"

He moved then, running toward the tor with a lightness and speed
incredible in anything but an animal or a savage. He was of Earth
stock, built tall, and more massive than he looked by reason of his
leanness. The desert wind was bitter cold, but he did not seem to
notice it, though he wore only a ragged shirt of Venusian spider silk,
open to the waist. His skin was almost as dark as his black hair,
burned indelibly by years of exposure to some terrible sun. His eyes
were startlingly light in colour, reflecting back the pale glow of the
moons.

With the practised ease of a lizard he slid in among the loose and
treacherous rocks. Finding a vantage point, where his back was
protected by the tor itself, he crouched down.

After that he did not move, except to draw his gun. There was something
eerie about his utter stillness, a quality of patience as unhuman as
the patience of the rock that sheltered him.

The four black shadows came closer, resolved themselves into mounted
men.

They found the beast, where it lay panting, and stopped. The line of
the man's footprints, already blurred by the wind but still plain
enough, showed where he had gone.

The leader motioned. The others dismounted. Working with the swift
precision of soldiers, they removed equipment from their saddle-packs
and began to assemble it.

The man crouching under the tor saw the thing that took shape. It was a
Banning shocker, and he knew that he was not going to fight his way out
of this trap. His pursuers were out of range of his own weapon. They
would remain so. The Banning, with its powerful electric beam, would
take him--dead or senseless, as they wished.

He thrust the useless gun back into his belt. He knew who these
men were, and what they wanted with him. They were officers of the
Earth Police Control, bringing him a gift--twenty years in the Luna
cell-blocks.

Twenty years in the grey catacombs, buried in the silence and the
eternal dark.

He recognized the inevitable. He was used to inevitables--hunger,
pain, loneliness, the emptiness of dreams. He had accepted a lot of
them in his time. Yet he made no move to surrender. He looked out at
the desert and the night sky, and his eyes blazed, the desperate,
strangely beautiful eyes of a creature very close to the roots of
life, something less and more than man. His hands found a shard of rock
and broke it.

The leader of the four men rode slowly toward the tor, his right arm
raised.

His voice carried clearly on the wind. "Eric John Stark!" he called,
and the dark man tensed in the shadows.

The rider stopped. He spoke again, but this time in a different tongue.
It was no dialect of Earth, Mars or Venus, but a strange speech, as
harsh and vital as the blazing Mercurian valleys that bred it.

"_Oh N'Chaka, oh Man-without-a-tribe, I call you!_"

There was a long silence. The rider and his mount were motionless under
the low moons, waiting.

Eric John Stark stepped slowly out from the pool of blackness under the
tor.

"Who calls me N'Chaka?"

The rider relaxed somewhat. He answered in English, "You know perfectly
well who I am, Eric. May we meet in peace?"

Stark shrugged. "Of course."

       *       *       *       *       *

He walked on to meet the rider, who had dismounted, leaving his beast
behind. He was a slight, wiry man, this EPC officer, with the rawhide
look of the frontiers still on him. His hair was grizzled and his
sun-blackened skin was deeply lined, but there was nothing in the least
aged about his hard good-humored face nor his remarkably keen dark eyes.

"It's been a long time, Eric," he said.

Stark nodded. "Sixteen years." The two men studied each other for a
moment, and then Stark said, "I thought you were still on Mercury,
Ashton."

"They've called all us experienced hands in to Mars." He held out
cigarettes. "Smoke?"

Stark took one. They bent over Ashton's lighter, and then stood there
smoking while the wind blew red dust over their feet and the three men
of the patrol waited quietly beside the Banning. Ashton was taking no
chances. The electro-beam could stun without injury.

Presently Ashton said, "I'm going to be crude, Eric. I'm going to
remind you of some things."

"Save it," Stark retorted. "You've got me. There's no need to talk
about it."

"Yes," said Ashton, "I've got you, and a damned hard time I've had
doing it. That's why I'm going to talk about it."

His dark eyes met Stark's cold stare and held it.

"Remember who I am--Simon Ashton. Remember who came along when the
miners in that valley on Mercury had a wild boy in a cage, and were
going to finish him off like they had the tribe that raised him.
Remember all the years after that, when I brought that boy up to be a
civilized human being."

Stark laughed, not without a certain humor. "You should have left me in
the cage. I was caught a little old for civilizing."

"Maybe. I don't think so. Anyway, I'm reminding you," Ashton said.

Stark said, with no particular bitterness, "You don't have to get
sentimental. I know it's your job to take me in."

Ashton said deliberately, "I won't take you in, Eric, unless you make
me." He went on then, rapidly, before Stark could answer. "You've
got a twenty-year sentence hanging over you, for running guns to the
Middle-Swamp tribes when they revolted against Terro-Venusian Metals,
and a couple of similar jobs.

"All right. So I know why you did it, and I won't say I don't agree
with you. But you put yourself outside the law, and that's that. Now
you're on your way to Valkis. You're headed into a mess that'll put you
on Luna for life, the next time you're caught."

"And this time you don't agree with me."

"No. Why do you think I broke my neck to catch you before you got
there?" Ashton bent closer, his face very intent. "Have you made any
deal with Delgaun of Valkis? Did he send for you?"

"He sent for me, but there's no deal yet. I'm on the beach. Broke. I
got a message from this Delgaun, whoever he is, that there was going to
be a private war back in the Drylands, and he'd pay me to help fight
it. After all, that's my business."

Ashton shook his head.

"This isn't a private war, Eric. It's something a lot bigger and
nastier than that. The Martian Council of City-States and the Earth
Commission are both in a cold sweat, and no one can find out exactly
what's going on. You know what the Low-Canal towns are--Valkis,
Jekkara, Barrakesh. No law-abiding Martian, let alone an Earthman,
can last five minutes in them. And the back-blocks are absolutely
_verboten_. So all we get is rumors.

"Fantastic rumors about a barbarian chief named Kynon, who seems to be
promising heaven and earth to the tribes of Kesh and Shun--some wild
stuff about the ancient cult of the Ramas that everybody thought was
dead a thousand years ago. We know that Kynon is tied up somehow with
Delgaun, who is a most efficient bandit, and we know that some of the
top criminals of the whole System are filtering in to join up. Knighton
and Walsh of Terra, Themis of Mercury, Arrod of Callisto Colony--and, I
believe, your old comrade in arms, Luhar the Venusian."

Stark gave a slight start, and Ashton smiled briefly.

"Oh, yes," he said. "I heard about that." Then he sobered. "You can
figure that set-up for yourself, Eric. The barbarians are going to go
out and fight some kind of a holy war, to suit the entirely unholy
purposes of men like Delgaun and the others.

"Half a world is going to be raped, blood is going to run deep in
the Drylands--and it will all be barbarian blood spilled for a lying
promise, and the carrion crows of Valkis will get fat on it. Unless,
somehow, we can stop it."

       *       *       *       *       *

He paused, then said flatly, "I want you to go on to Valkis, Eric--but
as my agent. I won't put it on the grounds that you'd be doing
civilization a service. You don't owe anything to civilization, Lord
knows. But you might save a lot of your own kind of people from getting
slaughtered, to say nothing of the border-state Martians who'll be the
first to get Kynon's axe.

"Also, you could wipe that twenty-year hitch on Luna off the slate,
maybe even work up a desire to make a man of yourself, instead of a
sort of tiger wandering from one kill to the next." He added, "If you
live."

Stark said slowly, "You're clever Ashton. You know I've got a feeling
for all planetary primitives like those who raised me, and you appeal
to that."

"Yes," said Ashton, "I'm clever. But I'm not a liar. What I've told you
is true."

Stark carefully ground out the cigarette beneath his heel. Then he
looked up. "Suppose I agree to become your agent in this, and go off to
Valkis. What's to prevent me from forgetting all about you, then?"

Ashton said softly, "Your word, Eric. You get to know a man pretty well
when you know him from boyhood on up. Your word is enough."

There was a silence, and then Stark held out his hand. "All right,
Simon--but only for this one deal. After that, no promises."

"Fair enough." They shook hands.

"I can't give you any suggestions," Ashton said. "You're on your own,
completely. You can get in touch with me through the Earth Commission
office in Tarak. You know where that is?"

Stark nodded. "On the Dryland Border."

"Good luck to you, Eric."

He turned, and they walked back together to where the three men waited.
Ashton nodded, and they began to dismantle the Banning. Neither they
nor Ashton looked back, as they rode away.

Stark watched them go. He filled his lungs with the cold air, and
stretched. Then he roused the beast out of the sand. It had rested, and
was willing to carry him again as long as he did not press it. He set
off again, across the desert.

The ridge grew as he approached it, looming into a low mountain chain
much worn by the ages. A pass opened before him, twisting between the
hills of barren rock.

He traversed it, coming out at the farther end above the basin of
a dead sea. The lifeless land stretched away into darkness, a vast
waste of desolation more lonely even than the desert. And between the
sea bottom and the foothills, Stark saw the lights of Valkis.


                                  II

There were many lights, far below. Tiny pinpricks of flame where
torches burned in the streets beside the Low-Canal--the thread of black
water that was all that remained of a forgotten ocean.

Stark had never been here before. Now he looked at the city that
sprawled down the slope under the low moons, and shivered, the
primitive twitching of the nerves that an animal feels in the presence
of death.

For the streets where the torches flared were only a tiny part of
Valkis. The life of the city had flowed downward from the cliff-tops,
following the dropping level of the sea. Five cities, the oldest
scarcely recognizable as a place of human habitation. Five harbors, the
docks and quays still standing, half buried in the dust.

Five ages of Martian history, crowned on the topmost level with the
ruined palace of the old pirate kings of Valkis. The towers still
stood, broken but indomitable, and in the moonlight they had a sleeping
look, as though they dreamed of blue water and the sound of waves, and
of tall ships coming in heavy with treasure.

Stark picked his way slowly down the steep descent. There was something
fascinating to him in the stone houses, roofless and silent in the
night. The paving blocks still showed the rutting of wheels where
carters had driven to the market-place, and princes had gone by in
gilded chariots. The quays were scarred where ships had lain against
them, rising and falling with the tides.

Stark's senses had developed in a strange school, and the thin veneer
of civilization he affected had not dulled them. Now it seemed to him
that the wind had the echoes of voices in it, and the smell of spices
and fresh-spilled blood.

He was not surprised when, in the last level above the living town,
armed men came out of the shadows and stopped him.

They were lean, dark men, very wiry and light of foot, and their faces
were the faces of wolves--not primitive wolves at all, but beasts of
prey that had been civilized for so many thousands of years that they
could afford to forget it.

They were most courteous, and Stark would not have cared to disobey
their request.

He gave his name. "Delgaun sent for me."

The leader of the Valkisians nodded his narrow head. "You're expected."
His sharp eyes had taken in every feature of the Earthman, and Stark
knew that his description had been memorized down to the last detail.
Valkis guarded its doors with care.

"Ask in the city," said the sentry. "Anyone can direct you to the
palace."

Stark nodded and went on, down through the long-dead streets in the
moonlight and the silence.

With shocking suddenness, he was plunged into the streets of the living.

It was very late now, but Valkis was awake and stirring. Seething,
rather. The narrow twisting ways were crowded. The laughter of women
came down from the flat roofs. Torchlight flared, gold and scarlet,
lighting the wineshops, making blacker the shadows of the alley-mouths.

Stark left his beast at a _serai_ on the edge of the canal. The
paddocks were already jammed. Stark recognized the long-legged brutes
of the Dryland breed, and as he left a caravan passed him, coming in,
with a jangling of bronze bangles and a great hissing and stamping in
the dust.

The riders were tall barbarians--Keshi, Stark thought, from the way
they braided their tawny hair. They wore plain leather, and their
blue-eyed women rode like queens.

Valkis was full of them. For days, it seemed, they must have poured
in across the dead sea bottom, from the distant oases and the barren
deserts of the back-blocks. Brawny warriors of Kesh and Shun, making
holiday beside the Low-Canal, where there was more water than any of
them had seen in their lives.

They were in Valkis, these barbarians, but they were not part of it.
Shouldering his way through the streets, Stark got the peculiar flavor
of the town, that he guessed could never be touched or changed by
anything.

In a square, a girl danced to the music of harp and drum. The air was
heavy with the smell of wine and burning pitch and incense. A lithe,
swart Valkisian in his bright kilt and jewelled girdle leaped out and
danced with the girl, his teeth flashing as he whirled and postured. In
the end he bore her off, laughing, her black hair hanging down his back.

Women looked at Stark. Women graceful as cats, bare to the waist, their
skirts slit at the sides above the thigh, wearing no ornaments but the
tiny golden bells that are the particular property of the Low-Canal
towns, so that the air is always filled with their delicate, wanton
chiming.

Valkis had a laughing, wicked soul. Stark had been in many places in
his life, but never one before that beat with such a pulse of evil,
incredibly ancient, but strong and gay.

He found the palace at last--a great rambling structure of quarried
stone, with doors and shutters of beaten bronze closed against the dust
and the incessant wind. He gave his name to the guard and was taken
inside, through halls hung with antique tapestries, the flagged floors
worn hollow by countless generations of sandalled feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Again, Stark's half-wild senses told him that life within these walls
had not been placid. The very stones whispered of age-old violence, the
shadows were heavy with the lingering ghosts of passion.

He was brought before Delgaun, the lord of Valkis, in the big central
room that served as his headquarters.

Delgaun was lean and catlike, after the fashion of his race. His black
hair showed a stippling of silver, and the hard beauty of his face was
strongly marked, the lines drawn deep and all the softness of youth
long gone away. He wore a magnificent harness, and his eyes, under fine
dark brows, were like drops of hot gold.

He looked up as the Earthman came in, one swift penetrating glance.
Then he said, "You're Stark."

There was something odd about those yellow eyes, bright and keen as a
killer hawk's yet somehow secret, as though the true thoughts behind
them would never show through. Instinctively, Stark disliked the man.

But he nodded and came up to the council table, turning his attention
to the others in the room. A handful of Martians--Low-Canallers, chiefs
and fighting men from their ornaments and their proud looks--and
several outlanders, their conventional garments incongruous in this
place.

Stark knew them all. Knighton and Walsh of Terra, Themis of Mercury,
Arrod of Callisto Colony--and Luhar of Venus. Pirates, thieves,
renegades, and each one an expert in his line.

Ashton was right. There was something big, something very big and very
ugly, shaping between Valkis and the Drylands.

But that was only a quick, passing thought in Stark's mind. It was on
Luhar that his attention centered. Bitter memory and hatred had come to
savage life within him as soon as he saw the Venusian.

The man was handsome. A cashiered officer of the crack Venusian Guards,
very slim, very elegant, his pale hair cropped short and curling, his
dark tunic fitting him like a second skin.

He said, "The aborigine! I thought we had enough barbarians here
without sending for more."

Stark said nothing. He began to walk toward Luhar.

Luhar said sharply, "There's no use in getting nasty, Stark. Past
scores are past. We're on the same side now."

The Earthman spoke, then, with a peculiar gentleness.

"We were on the same side once before. Against Terro-Venus Metals.
Remember?"

"I remember very well!" Luhar was speaking now not to Stark alone,
but to everyone in the room. "I remember that your innocent barbarian
friends had me tied to the block there in the swamps, and that you
were watching the whole thing with honest pleasure. If the Company men
hadn't come along, I'd be screaming there yet."

"You sold us out," Stark said. "You had it coming."

He continued to walk toward Luhar.

Delgaun spoke. He did not raise his voice, yet Stark felt the impact of
his command.

"There will be no fighting here," Delgaun said. "You are both hired
mercenaries, and while you take my pay you will forget your private
quarrels. Do you understand?"

Luhar nodded and sat down, smiling out of the corner of his mouth at
Stark, who stood looking with narrowed eyes at Delgaun.

He was still half blind with his anger against Luhar. His hands ached
for the kill. But even so, he recognized the power in Delgaun.

A sound shockingly akin to the growl of a beast echoed in his throat.
Then, gradually, he relaxed. The man Delgaun he would have challenged.
But to do so would wreck the mission that he had promised to carry out
here for Ashton.

He shrugged, and joined the others at the table.

Walsh of Terra rose abruptly and began to prowl back and forth.

"How much longer do we have to wait?" he demanded.

Delgaun poured wine into a bronze goblet. "Don't expect me to know," he
snapped. He shoved the flagon along the table toward Stark.

Stark helped himself. The wine was warm and sweet on his tongue. He
drank slowly, sitting relaxed and patient while the others smoked
nervously or rose to pace up and down.

Stark wondered what, or who, they were waiting for. But he did not ask.

Time went by.

Stark raised his head, listening. "What's that?"

Their duller ears had heard nothing, but Delgaun rose and flung open
the shutters of the window near him.

The Martian dawn, brilliant and clear, flooded the dead sea bottom with
harsh light. Beyond the black line of the canal a caravan was coming
toward Valkis through the blowing dust.

It was no ordinary caravan. Warriors rode before and behind, their
spearheads blazing in the sunrise. Jewelled trappings on the beasts, a
litter with curtains of crimson silk, barbaric splendor. Clear and thin
on the air came the wild music of pipes and the deep-throated throbbing
of drums.

Stark guessed without being told who it was that rode out of the desert
like a king.

Delgaun made a harsh sound in his throat. "It's Kynon, at last!" he
said, and swung around from the window. His eyes sparkled with some
private amusement. "Let us go and welcome the Giver of Life!"

Stark went with them, out into the crowded streets. A silence had
fallen on the town. Valkisian and barbarian alike were caught now in a
breathless excitement, pressing through the narrow ways, flowing toward
the canal.

Stark found himself beside Delgaun in the great square of the slave
market, standing on the auction block, above the heads of the throng.
The stillness, the expectancy of the crowd were uncanny....

To the measured thunder of drums and the wild skirling of desert pipes,
Kynon of Shun came into Valkis.


                                  III

Straight into the square of the slave market the caravan came, and the
people pressed back against the walls to make way for them. Stamping of
padded hoofs on the stones, ring and clash of harness, brave glitter
of spears and the great two-handed broadswords of the Drylands, with
drumbeats to shake the heart and the savage cry of the pipes to set
the blood leaping. Stark could not restrain an appreciative thrill in
himself.

The advance guard reached the slave block. Then, with deafening
abruptness, the drummers crossed their sticks and the pipers ceased,
and there was utter silence in the square.

It lasted for almost a minute, and then from every barbarian throat the
name of Kynon roared out until the stones of the city echoed with it.

A man leaped from the back of his mount to the block, standing at its
outer edge where all could see, his hands flung up.

"I greet you, my brothers!"

And the cheering went on.

Stark studied Kynon, surprised that he was so young. He had expected a
gray-bearded prophet, and instead, here was a brawny-shouldered man of
war standing as tall as himself.

Kynon's eyes were a bright, compelling blue, and his face was the face
of a young eagle. His voice had deep music in it--the kind of voice
that can sway crowds to madness.

Stark looked from him to the rapt faces of the people--even the
Valkisians had caught the mood--and thought that Kynon was the most
dangerous man he had ever seen. This tawny-haired barbarian in his kilt
of bronze-bossed leather was already half a god.

Kynon shouted to the captain of his warriors, "Bring the captive
and the old man!" Then he turned again to the crowd, urging them
to silence. When at last the square was still, his voice rang
challengingly across it.

"There are still those who doubt me. Therefore I have come to Valkis,
and this day--now!--I will show proof that I have not lied!"

A roar and a mutter from the crowd. Kynon's men were lifting to the
block a tottering ancient so bowed with years that he could barely
stand, and a youth of Terran stock. The boy was in chains. The old
man's eyes burned, and he looked at the boy beside him with a terrible
joy.

Stark settled down to watch. The litter with the curtains of crimson
silk was now beside the block. A girl, a Valkisian, stood beside it,
looking up. It seemed to Stark that her green eyes rested on Kynon with
a smouldering anger.

He glanced away from the serving girl, and saw that the curtains were
partly open. A woman lay on the cushions within. He could not see much
of her, except that her hair was like dark flame and she was smiling,
looking at the old man and the naked boy. Then her glance, very dark in
the shadows of the litter, shifted away and Stark followed it and saw
Delgaun. Every muscle of Delgaun's body was drawn taut, and he seemed
unable to look away from the woman in the litter.

Stark smiled, very slightly. The outlanders were cynically absorbed
in what was going on. The crowd had settled again to that silent,
breathless tension. The sun blazed down out of the empty sky. The dust
blew, and the wind was sharp with the smell of living flesh.

The old man reached out and touched the boy's smooth shoulder, and his
gums showed bluish as he laughed.

Kynon was speaking again.

"There are still those who doubt me, I say! Those who scoffed when I
said that I possessed the ancient secret of the Ramas of long ago--the
secret by which one man's mind may be transferred into another's body.
But none of you after today will doubt that I hold that secret!

"I, myself, am not a Rama." He glanced down along his powerful frame,
half-consciously flexing his muscles, and laughed. "Why should I be a
Rama? I have no need, as yet, for the Sending-on of Minds!"

Answering laughter, half ribald, from the crowd.

"No," said Kynon, "I am not a Rama. I am a man like you. Like you, I
have no wish to grow old, and in the end, to die."

He swung abruptly to the old man.

"You, Grandfather! Would you not wish to be young again--to ride out to
battle, to take the woman of your choice?"

The old man wailed, "Yes! Yes!" and his gaze dwelt hungrily upon the
boy.

"And you shall be!" The strength of a god rang in Kynon's voice. He
turned again to the crowd and cried out,

"For years I suffered in the desert alone, searching for the lost
secret of the Ramas. And I found it, my brothers! I hold their ancient
power. I alone--in these two hands I hold it, and with it I shall begin
a new era for our Dryland races!

"There will be fighting, yes. There will be bloodshed. But when that is
over and the men of Kesh and Shun are free from their ancient bondage
of thirst and the men of the Low-Canals have regained their own--then
I shall give new life, unending life, to all who have followed me.
The aged and lamed and wounded can choose new bodies from among the
captives. There will be no more age, no more sickness, no more death!"

A rippling, shivering sigh from the crowd. Eyeballs gleaming in the
bitter light, mouths open on the hunger that is nearest to the human
soul.

"Lest anyone still doubt my promise," said Kynon, "watch. Watch--and I
will show you!"

They watched. Not stirring, hardly breathing, they watched.

       *       *       *       *       *

The drums struck up a slow and solemn beat. The captain of the
warriors, with an escort of six men, marched to the litter and took
from the woman's hands a bundle wrapped in silks. Bearing it as though
it were precious beyond belief, he came to the block and lifted it up,
and Kynon took it from him.

The silken wrappings fluttered loose, fell away. And in Kynon's hands
gleamed two crystal crowns and a shining rod.

He held them high, the sunlight glancing in cold fire from the crystal.

"Behold!" he said. "The Crowns of the Ramas!"

The crowd drew breath then, one long rasping _Ah!_

The solemn drumbeat never faltered. It was as though the pulse of
the whole world throbbed within it. Kynon turned. The old man began
to tremble. Kynon placed one crown on his wrinkled scalp, and the
tottering creature winced as though in pain, but his face was ecstatic.

Relentlessly, Kynon crowned with the second circlet the head of the
frightened boy.

"Kneel," he said.

They knelt. Standing tall above them, Kynon held the rod in his two
hands, between the crystal crowns.

Light was born in the rod. It was no reflection of the sun. Blue and
brilliant, it flashed along the rod and leaped from it to wake an
answering brilliance in the crowns, so that the old man and the youth
were haloed with a chill, supernal fire.

The drumbeat ceased. The old man cried out. His hands plucked feebly at
his head, then went to his breast and clenched there. Quite suddenly
he fell forward over his knees. A convulsive tremor shook him. Then he
lay still.

The boy swayed and then fell forward also, with a clashing of chains.

The light died out of the crowns. Kynon stood a moment longer, rigid as
a statue, holding the rod which still flickered with blue lightning.
Then that also died.

Kynon lowered the rod. In a ringing voice he cried, "Arise,
Grandfather!"

The boy stirred. Slowly, very slowly, he rose to his feet. Holding out
his hands, he stared at them, and then touched his thighs, and his flat
belly, and the deep curve of his chest.

Up the firm young throat the wondering fingers went, to the smooth
cheeks, to the thick fair hair above the crown. A cry broke from him.

With the perfect accent of the Drylands, the Earth boy cried in
Martian, "I am in the youth's body! I am young again!"

A scream, a wail of ecstasy, burst from the crowd. It swayed like a
great beast, white faces turned upward. The boy fell down and embraced
Kynon's knees.

Eric John Stark found that he himself was trembling slightly. He
glanced at Delgaun and the outlanders. The Valkisian wore a look of
intense satisfaction under his mask of awe. The others were almost as
rapt and open-mouthed as the crowd.

Stark turned his head slightly and looked down at the litter. One
white hand was already drawing the curtains, so that the scarlet silk
appeared to shake with silent laughter.

The serving girl beside it had not moved. Still she looked up at Kynon,
and there was nothing in her eyes but hate.

After that there was bedlam, the rush and trample of the crowd, the
beating of drums, the screaming of pipes, deafening uproar. The crowns
and the crystal rod were wrapped again and taken away. Kynon raised up
the boy and struck off the chains of captivity. He mounted, with the
boy beside him. Delgaun walked before him through the streets, and so
did the outlanders.

The body of the old man was disregarded, except by some of Kynon's
barbarians who wrapped it in a white cloth and took it away.

Kynon of Shun came in triumph to Delgaun's palace. Standing beside
the litter, he gave his hand to the woman, who stepped out and walked
beside him through the bronze door.

The women of Shun are tall and strong, bred to stand beside their men
in war as well as love, and this red-haired daughter of the Drylands
was enough to stop a man's heart with her proud step and her white
shoulders, and her eyes that were the color of smoke. Stark's gaze
followed her from a distance.

Presently in the council room were gathered Delgaun and the outlanders,
Kynon and his bright-haired queen--and no other Martians but those
three.

Kynon sprawled out in the high seat at the head of the table. His face
was beaming. He wiped the sweat off it, and then filled a goblet with
wine, looking around the room with his bright blue eyes.

"Fill up, gentlemen. I'll give you a toast." He lifted the goblet.
"Here's to the secret of the Ramas, and the gift of life!"

Stark put down his goblet, still empty. He stared directly at Kynon.

"You have no secret," said Stark deliberately.

Kynon sat perfectly still, except that, very slowly, he put his own
goblet down. Nobody else moved.

Stark's voice sounded loud in the stillness.

"Furthermore," he said, "that demonstration in the square was a lie
from beginning to end."


                                  IV

Stark's words had the effect of an electric shock on the listeners.
Delgaun's black brows went up, and the woman came forward a little to
stare at the Earthman with profound interest.

Kynon asked a question, of nobody in particular. "Who," he demanded,
"is this great black ape?"

Delgaun told him.

"Ah, yes," said Kynon. "Eric John Stark, the wild man from Mercury." He
scowled threateningly. "Very well--explain how I lied in the square!"

"Certainly. First of all, the Earth boy was a prisoner. He was told
what he had to do to save his neck, and then was carefully coached in
his part. Secondly, the crystal rod and the crowns are a fake. You
used a simple Purcell unit in the rod to produce an electronic brush
discharge. That made the blue light. Thirdly, you gave the old man
poison, probably by means of a sharp point on the crown. I saw him
wince when you put it on him."

Stark paused. "The old man died. The boy went through his sham. And
that was that."

Again there was a flat silence. Luhar crouched over the table, his face
avid with hope. The woman's eyes dwelt on Stark and did not turn away.

Then, suddenly, Kynon laughed. He roared with it until the tears ran.

"It was a good show, though," he said at last. "Damned good. You'll
have to admit that. The crowd swallowed it, horns, hoofs and hide."

He got up and came round to Stark, clapping him on the shoulder, a blow
that would have laid a lesser man flat.

"I like you, wild man. Nobody else here had the guts to speak out, but
I'll give you odds they were all thinking the same thing."

Stark said, "Just where were you, Kynon, during those years you were
supposed to be suffering alone in the desert?"

"Curious, aren't you? Well, I'll let you in on a secret." Kynon lapsed
abruptly into perfectly good colloquial English. "I was on Terra,
learning about things like the Purcell electronic discharge."

Reaching over, he poured wine for Stark and held it out to him. "Now
you know. Now we all know. So let's wash the dust out of our throats
and get down to business."

Stark said, "No."

Kynon looked at him. "What now?"

"You're lying to your people," Stark said flatly. "You're making false
promises, to lead them into war."

Kynon was genuinely puzzled by Stark's anger. "But of course!" he
said. "Is there anything new or strange in that?"

Luhar spoke up, his voice acid with hate. "Watch out for him, Kynon.
He'll sell you out, he'll cut your throat, if he thinks it best for the
barbarians."

Delgaun said, "Stark's reputation is known all over the system. There's
no need to tell us that again."

"No." Kynon shook his head, looking very candidly at Stark. "We sent
for you, didn't we, knowing that? All right."

He stepped back a little, so that the others were included in what he
was going to say.

"My people have a just cause for war. They go hungry and thirsty, while
the City-States along the Dryland Border hog all the water sources and
grow fat. Do you know what it means to watch your children die crying
for water on a long march, to come at last to the oasis and find the
well sanded in by a storm, and go on again, trying to save your people
and your herd? Well, I do! I was born and bred in the Drylands, and
many a time I've cursed the border states with a tongue like a dry
stick.

"Stark, you should know the workings of the barbarian mind as well
as I do. The men of Kesh and Shun are traditional enemies. Raiding
and thieving, open warfare over water and grass. I had to give them a
rallying point--a faith strong enough to unite them. Resurrecting the
Rama legend was the only hope I had.

"And it has worked. The tribes are one people now. They can go on and
take what belongs to them--the right to live. I'm not really so far out
in my promises, at that. Now do you understand?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Stark studied him, with his cold cat-eyes. "Where do the men of Valkis
come in--the men of Jekkara and Barrakesh? Where do _we_ come in, the
hired bravoes?"

Kynon smiled. It was a perfectly sincere smile, and it had no humor in
it, only a great pride and a cheerful cruelty.

"We're going to build an empire," he said softly. "The City-States are
disorganized, too starved or too fat to fight. And Earth is taking us
over. Before long, Mars will be hardly more than another Luna.

"We're going to fight that. Drylander and Low-Canaller together, we're
going to build a power out of dust and blood--and there will be loot in
plenty to go round."

"That's where my men come in," said Delgaun, and laughed. "We
Low-Canallers live by rapine."

"And you," said Kynon, "the 'hired bravoes', are in it to help. I
need you and the Venusian, Stark, to train my men, to plan campaigns,
to give me all you know of guerrilla fighting. Knighton has a fast
cruiser. He'll bring us supplies from outside. Walsh is a genius, they
tell me, at fashioning weapons. Themis is a mechanic, and also the
cleverest thief this side of hell--saving your presence, Delgaun! Arrod
organized and bossed the Brotherhood of the Little Worlds, which had
the Space Patrol going mad for years. He can do the same for us. So
there you have it. Now, Stark, what do you say?"

The Earthman answered slowly, "I'll go along with you--as long as no
harm comes to the tribes."

Kynon laughed. "No need to worry about that."

"Just one more question," Stark said. "What's going to happen when the
people find out that this Rama stuff is just a myth?"

"They won't," said Kynon. "The crowns will be destroyed in battle, and
it will be very tragic, but very final. No one knows how to make more
of them. Oh, I can handle the people! They'll be happy enough, with
good land and water."

He looked around then and said plaintively, "And now can we sit down
and drink like civilized men?"

They sat. The wine went round, and the vultures of Valkis drank to each
other's luck and loot, and Stark learned that the woman's name was
Berild.

Kynon was happy. He had made his point with the people, and he was
celebrating. But Stark noticed that though his tongue grew thick, it
did not loosen.

Luhar grew steadily more morose and silent, glancing covertly across
the table at Stark. Delgaun toyed with his goblet, and his yellow gaze
which gave nothing away moved restlessly between Berild and Stark.

Berild drank not at all. She sat a little apart, with her face in
shadow, and her red mouth smiled. Her thoughts, too, were her own
secret. But Stark knew that she was still watching him, and he knew
that Delgaun was aware of it.

Presently Kynon said, "Delgaun and I have some talking to do, so I'll
bid you gentlemen farewell for the present. You, Stark, and Luhar--I'm
going back into the desert at midnight, and you're going with me, so
you'd better get some sleep."

Stark nodded. He rose and went out, with the others.

An attendant showed him to his quarters, in the north wing. Stark had
not rested for twenty-four hours, and he was glad of the chance to
sleep.

He lay down. The wine spun in his head, and Berild's smile mocked him.
Then his thoughts turned to Ashton, and his promise. Presently he
slept, and dreamed.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was a boy on Mercury again, running down a path that led from a cave
mouth to the floor of a valley. Above him the mountains rose into the
sky and were lost beyond the shallow atmosphere. The rocks danced in
the terrible heat, but the soles of his feet were like iron, and trod
them lightly. He was quite naked.

The blaze of the sun between the valley walls was like the shining
heart of Hell. It did not seem to the boy N'Chaka that it could ever be
cold again, yet he knew that when darkness came there would be ice on
the shallows of the river. The gods were constantly at war.

He passed a place, ruined by earthquake. It was a mine, and N'Chaka
remembered dimly that he had once lived there, with several
white-skinned creatures shaped like himself. He went on without a
second glance.

He was searching for Tika. When he was old enough, he would mate with
her. He wanted to hunt with her now, for she was fleet and as keen as
he at scenting out the great lizards.

He heard her voice calling his name. There was terror in it, and
N'Chaka began to run. He saw her, crouched between two huge boulders,
her light fur stained with blood.

A vast black-winged shadow swooped down upon him. It glared at him with
its yellow eyes, and its long beak tore at him. He thrust his spear at
it, but talons hooked into his shoulder, and the golden eyes were close
to him, bright and full of death.

He knew those eyes. Tika screamed, but the sound faded, everything
faded but those eyes. He sprang up, grappling with the thing....

A man's voice yelling, a man's hands thrusting him away. The dream
receded. Stark came back to reality, dropping the scared attendant who
had come to waken him.

The man cringed away from him. "Delgaun sent me. He wants you--in the
council room." Then he turned and fled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stark shook himself. The dream had been terribly real. He went down to
the council room. It was dusk now, and the torches were lighted.

Delgaun was waiting, and Berild sat beside him at the table. They were
alone there. Delgaun looked up, with his golden eyes.

"I have a job for you, Stark," he said. "You remember the captain of
Kynon's men, in the square today?"

"I do."

"His name is Freka, and he's a good man, but he's addicted to a certain
vice. He'll be up to his ears in it by now, and somebody has to get him
back by the time Kynon leaves. Will you see to it?"

Stark glanced at Berild. It seemed to him that she was amused, whether
at him or at Delgaun he could not tell. He asked,

"Where will I find him?"

"There's only one place where he can get his particular poison--Kala's,
out on the edge of Valkis. It's in the old city, beyond the lower
quays." Delgaun smiled. "You may have to be ready with your fists,
Stark. Freka may not want to come."

Stark hesitated. Then, "I'll do my best," he said, and went out into
the dusky streets of Valkis.

He crossed a square, heading away from the palace. A twisting lane
swallowed him up. And quite suddenly, someone took his arm and said
rapidly,

"Smile at me, and then turn aside into the alley."

The hand on his arm was small and brown, the voice very pretty with its
accompaniment of little chiming bells. He smiled, as she had bade him,
and turned aside into the alley, which was barely more than a crack
between two rows of houses.

Swiftly, he put his hands against the wall, so that the girl was
prisoned between them. A green-eyed girl, with golden bells braided in
her black hair, and impudent breasts bare above a jewelled girdle. A
handsome girl, with a proud look to her.

The serving girl who had stood beside the litter in the square, and had
watched Kynon with such bleak hatred.

"Well," said Stark. "And what do you want with me, little one?"

She answered, "My name is Fianna. And I do not intend to kill you,
neither will I run away."

Stark let his hands drop. "Did you follow me, Fianna?"

"I did. Delgaun's palace is full of hidden ways, and I know them all. I
was listening behind the panel in the council room. I heard you speak
out against Kynon, and I heard Delgaun's order, just now."

"So?"

"So, if you meant what you said about the tribes, you had better
get away now, while you have the chance. Kynon lied to you. He will
use you, and then kill you, as he will use and then destroy his own
people." Her voice was hot with bitter fury.

Stark gave her a slow smile that might have meant anything, or nothing.

"You're a Valkisian, Fianna. What do you care what happens to the
barbarians?"

Her slightly tilted green eyes looked scornfully into his.

"I'm not trying to trap you, Earthman. I hate Kynon. And my mother was
a woman of the desert."

She paused, then went on sombrely, "Also, I serve the lady Berild, and
I have learned many things. There is trouble coming, greater trouble
than Kynon knows." She asked, suddenly, "What do you know of the
Ramas?"

"Nothing," he answered, "except that they don't exist now, if they ever
did."

Fianna gave him an odd look. "Perhaps they don't. Will you listen to
me, Earthman from Mercury? Will you get away, now that you know you're
marked for death?"

Stark said, "No."

"Even if I tell you that Delgaun has set a trap for you at Kala's?"

"No. But I will thank you for your warning, Fianna."

He bent and kissed her, because she was very young and honest. Then he
turned and went on his way.


                                   V

Night came swiftly. Stark left behind him the torches and the laughter
and the sounding harps, coming into the streets of the old city where
there was nothing but silence and the light of the low moons.

He saw the lower quays, great looming shapes of marble rounded and worn
by time, and went toward them. Presently he found that he was following
a faint but definite path, threaded between the ancient houses. It was
very still, so that the dry whisper of the drifting dust was audible.

He passed under the shadow of the quays, and turned into a broad way
that had once led up from the harbor. A little way ahead, on the other
side, he saw a tall building half fallen in ruin. Its windows were
shuttered, barred with light, and from it came the sound of voices and
a thin thread of music, very reedy and evil.

Stark approached it, slipping through the ragged shadows as though he
had no more weight to him than a drift of smoke. Once a door banged and
a man came out of Kala's and passed by, going down to Valkis. Stark saw
his face in the moonlight. It was the face of a beast, rather than a
man. He muttered to himself as he went, and once he laughed, and Stark
felt a loathing in him.

He waited until the sound of footsteps had died away. The ruined
houses gave no sign of danger. A lizard rustled between the stones, and
that was all. The moonlight lay bright and still on Kala's door.

Stark found a little shard of rock and tossed it, so that it made a
sharp snicking sound against the shadowed wall beyond him. Then he held
his breath, listening.

No one, nothing, stirred. Only the dry wind sighed in the empty houses.

Stark went out, across the open space, and nothing happened. He flung
open the door of Kala's dive.

Yellow light spilled out, and a choking wave of hot and stuffy air.
Inside, there were tall lamps with quartz lenses, each of which poured
down a beam of throbbing, gold-orange light. And in the little pools of
radiance, on filthy furs and cushions on the floor, lay men and women
whose faces were slack and bestial.

Stark realized now what secret vice Kala sold here. Shanga--the
going-back--the radiation that caused temporary artificial atavism and
let men wallow for a time in beasthood. It was supposed to have been
stamped out when the Lady Fand's dark Shanga ring had been destroyed.
But it still persisted, in places like this outside the law.

He looked for Freka, and recognized the tall barbarian. He was sprawled
under one of the Shanga-lamps, eyes closed, face brutish, growling and
twitching in sleep like the beast he had temporarily become.

A voice spoke from behind Stark's shoulder. "I am Kala. What do you
wish, Outlander?"

He turned. Kala might have been beautiful once, a thousand years ago as
you reckon sin. She wore still the sweet chiming bells in her hair, and
Stark thought of Fianna. The woman's ravaged face turned him sick. It
was like the reedy, piping music, woven out of the very heart of evil.

Yet her eyes were shrewd, and he knew that she had not missed his
searching look around the room, nor his interest in Freka. There was a
note of warning in her voice.

He did not want trouble, yet. Not until he found some hint of the trap
Fianna had told him of.

He said, "Bring me wine."

"Will you try the lamp of Going-back, Outlander? It brings much joy."

"Perhaps later. Now, I wish wine."

       *       *       *       *       *

She went away, clapping her hands for a slatternly wench who came
between the sprawled figures with an earthen mug. Stark sat down beside
a table, where his back was to the wall and he could see both the door
and the whole room.

Kala had returned to her own heap of furs by the door, but her basilisk
eyes were alert.

Stark made a pretence of drinking, but his mind was very busy, very
cold.

Perhaps this, in itself, was the trap. Freka was temporarily a beast.
He would fight, and Kala would shriek, and the other dull-eyed brutes
would rise and fight also.

But he would have needed no warning about that--and Delgaun himself had
said there would be trouble.

No. There was something more.

He let his gaze wander over the room. It was large, and there were
other rooms off of it, the openings hung with ragged curtains. Through
the rents, Stark could see others of Kala's customers sprawled under
Shanga-lamps, and some of these had gone so far back from humanity that
they were hideous to behold. But still there was no sign of danger to
himself.

There was only one odd thing. The room nearest to where Freka sat was
empty, and its curtains were only partly drawn.

Stark began to brood on the emptiness of that room.

He beckoned Kala to him. "I will try the lamp," he said. "But I wish
privacy. Have it brought to that room, there."

Kala said, "That room is taken."

"But I see no one!"

"It is taken, it is paid for, and no one may enter. I will have your
lamp brought here."

"No," said Stark. "The hell with it. I'm going."

He flung down a coin and went out. Moving swiftly outside, he placed
his eye to a crack in the nearest shutter, and waited.

Luhar of Venus came out of the empty room. His face was worried, and
Stark smiled. He went back and stood flat against the wall beside the
door.

In a moment it opened and the Venusian came out, drawing his gun as he
did so.

Stark jumped him.

Luhar let out one angry cry. His gun went off a vicious streak of flame
across the moonlight, and then Stark's great hand crushed the bones
of his wrist together so that he dropped it clashing on the stones.
He whirled around, raking Stark's face with his nails as he clawed
for the Earthman's eyes, and Stark hit him. Luhar fell, rolling over,
and before he could scramble up again Stark had picked up the gun and
thrown it away into the ruins across the street.

Luhar came up from the pavement in one catlike spring. Stark fell with
him, back through Kala's door, and they rolled together among the foul
furs and cushions. Luhar was built of spring steel, with no softness in
him anywhere, and his long fingers were locked around Stark's throat.

Kala screamed with fury. She caught a whip from among her cushions--a
traditional weapon along the Low-Canals--and began to lash the two men
impartially, her hair flying in tangled locks across her face. The
bestial figures under the lamps shambled to their feet, and growled.

The long lash ripped Stark's shirt and the flesh of his back beneath
it. He snarled and staggered to his feet, with Luhar still clinging to
the death grip on his throat. He pushed Luhar's face away from him with
both hands and threw himself forward, over a table, so that Luhar was
crushed beneath him.

The Venusian's breath left him with a whistling grunt. His fingers
relaxed. Stark struck his hands away. He rose and bent over Luhar and
picked him up, gripping him cruelly so that he turned white with the
pain, and raised him high and flung him bodily into the growling,
beast-faced men who were shambling toward him.

Kala leaped at Stark, cursing, striking him with the coiling lash.
He turned. The thin veneer of civilization was gone from Stark now,
erased in a second by the first hint of battle. His eyes blazed with
a cold light. He took the whip out of Kala's hand and laid his palm
across her evil face, and she fell and lay still.

He faced the ring of bestial, Shanga-sodden men who walled him off from
what he had been sent to do. There was a reddish tinge to his vision,
partly blood, partly sheer rage. He could see Freka standing erect in
the corner, his head weaving from side to side brutishly.

Stark raised the whip and strode into the ring of men who were no
longer quite men.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hands struck and clawed him. Bodies reeled and fell away. Blank eyes
glittered, and red mouths squealed, and there was a mingling of snarls
and bestial laughter in his ears. The blood-lust had spread to these
creatures now. They swarmed upon Stark and bore him down with the
weight of their writhing bodies.

They bit him and savaged him in a blind way, and he fought his way up
again, shaking them off with his great shoulders, trampling them under
his boots. The lash hissed and sang, and the smell of blood rose on the
choking air.

Freka's dazed, brutish face swam before Stark. The Martian growled and
flung himself forward. Stark swung the loaded butt of the whip. It
cracked solidly on the Shunni's temple, and he sagged into Stark's arms.

Out of the corner of his eyes, Stark saw Luhar. He had risen and crept
around the edge of the fight. He was behind Stark now, and there was a
knife in his hand.

Hampered by Freka's weight, Stark could not leap aside. As Luhar rushed
in, he crouched and went backward, his head and shoulders taking the
Venusian low in the belly. He felt the hot kiss of the blade in his
flesh, but the wound was glancing, and before Luhar could strike again,
Stark twisted like a great cat and struck down. Luhar's skull rang on
the flagging. The Earthman's fist rose and fell twice. After that,
Luhar did not move.

Stark got to his feet. He stood with his knees bent and his shoulders
flexed, looking from side to side, and the sound that came out of his
throat was one of pure savagery.

He moved forward a step or two, half naked, bleeding, towering like a
dark colossus over the lean Martians, and the brutish throng gave back
from him. They had taken more mauling than they liked, and there was
something about the Outlander's simple desire to rend them apart that
penetrated even their Shanga-clouded minds.

Kala sat up on the floor, and snarled, "Get out."

Stark stood a moment or two longer, looking at them. Then he lifted
Freka to his feet and laid him over his shoulder like a sack of meal
and went out, moving neither fast nor slow, but in a straight line, and
way was made for him.

He carried the Shunni down through the silent streets, and into the
twisting, crowded ways of Valkis. There, too, the people stared at him
and drew back, out of his path. He came to Delgaun's palace. The guards
closed in behind him, but they did not ask that he stop.

Delgaun was in the council room, and Berild was still with him. It
seemed that they had been waiting, over their wine and their private
talk. Delgaun rose to his feet as Stark came in, so sharply that his
goblet fell and spilled a red pool of wine at his feet.

Stark let the Shunni drop to the floor.

"I have brought Freka," he said. "Luhar is still at Kala's."

He looked into Delgaun's eyes, golden and cruel, the eyes of his dream.
It was hard not to kill.

Suddenly the woman laughed, very clear and ringing, and her laughter
was all for Delgaun.

"Well done, wild man," she said to Stark. "Kynon is lucky to have such
a captain. One word for the future, though--watch out for Freka. He
won't forgive you this."

Stark said thickly, looking at Delgaun, "This hasn't been a night for
forgiveness." Then he added, "I can handle Freka."

Berild said, "I like you, wild man." Her eyes dwelt on Stark's face,
curious, compelling. "Ride beside me when we go. I would know more
about you."

And she smiled.

A dark flush crept over Delgaun's face. In a voice tight with fury he
said, "Perhaps you've forgotten something, Berild. There is nothing for
you in this barbarian, this creature of an hour!"

He would have said more in his anger, but Berild said sharply,

"We will not speak of time. Go now, Stark. Be ready at midnight."

Stark went. And as he went, his brow was furrowed deep by a strange
doubt.


                                  VI

At midnight, in the great square of the slave market, Kynon's caravan
formed again and went out of Valkis with thundering drums and skirling
pipes. Delgaun was there to see them go, and the cheering of the people
rang after them on the desert wind.

Stark rode alone. He was in a brooding mood and wanted no company,
least of all that of the Lady Berild. She was beautiful, she was
dangerous, and she belonged to Kynon, or to Delgaun, or perhaps to both
of them. In Stark's experience, women like that were sudden death, and
he wanted no part of her. At any rate, not yet.

Luhar rode ahead with Kynon. He had come dragging into the square at
the mounting, his face battered and swollen, an ugly look is his eyes.
Kynon gave one quick look from him to Stark, who had his own scars, and
said harshly,

"Delgaun tells me there's a blood feud between you two. I want no more
of it, understand? After you're paid off you can kill each other and
welcome, but not until then. Is that clear?"

Stark nodded, keeping his mouth shut. Luhar muttered assent, and they
had not looked at each other since.

Freka rode in his customary place by Kynon, which put him near to
Luhar. It seemed to Stark that their beasts swung close together more
often than was necessary from the roughness of the track.

The big barbarian captain sat rigidly erect in his saddle, but Stark
had seen his face in the torchlight, sick and sweating, with the brute
look still clouding his eyes. There was a purple mark on his temple,
but Stark was quite sure that Berild had spoken the truth--Freka would
not forgive him either the indignity or the hangover of his unfinished
wallow under the lamps of Shanga.

The dead sea bottom widened away under the black sky. As they left the
lights of Valkis behind, winding their way over the sand and the ribs
of coral, dropping lower with every mile into the vast basin, it was
hard to believe that there could be life anywhere on a world that could
produce such cosmic desolation.

The little moons fled away, trailing their eerie shadows over rock
formations tortured into impossible shapes by wind and water, peering
into clefts that seemed to have no bottom, turning the sand white as
bone. The iron stars blazed, so close that the wind seemed edged with
their frosty light. And in all that endless space nothing moved, and
the silence was so deep that the coughing howl of a sand-cat far away
to the east made Stark jump with its loudness.

Yet Stark was not oppressed by the wilderness. Born and bred to the
wild and barren places, this desert was more kin to him than the cities
of men.

After a while there was a jangling of brazen bangles behind him and
Fianna came up. He smiled at her, and she said rather sullenly,

"The Lady Berild sent me, to remind you of her wish."

Stark glanced to where the scarlet-curtained litter rocked along, and
his eyes glinted.

"She's not one to let go of a thing, is she?"

"No." Fianna saw that no one was within earshot, and then said quietly,
"Was it as I said, at Kala's?"

Stark nodded. "I think, little one, that I owe you my life. Luhar would
have killed me as soon as I tackled Freka."

He reached over and touched her hand where it lay on the bridle. She
smiled, a young girl's smile that seemed very sweet in the moonlight,
honest and comradely.

It was odd to be talking of death with a pretty girl in the moonlight.

Stark said, "Why does Delgaun want to kill me?"

"He gave no reason, when he spoke to the man from Venus. But perhaps
I can guess. He knows that you're as strong as he is, and so he fears
you. Also, the Lady Berild looked at you in a certain way."

"I thought Berild was Kynon's woman."

"Perhaps she is--for the time," answered Fianna enigmatically. Then
she shook her head, glancing around with what was almost fear. "I have
risked much already. Please--don't let it be known that I've spoken to
you, beyond what I was sent to say."

Her eyes pleaded with him, and Stark realized with a shock that Fianna,
too, stood on the edge of a quicksand.

"Don't be afraid," he said, and meant it. "We'd better go."

She swung her beast around, and as she did so she whispered, "Be
careful, Eric John Stark!"

Stark nodded. He rode behind her, thinking that he liked the sound of
his name on her lips.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Lady Berild lay among her furs and cushions, and even then there
was no indolence about her. She was relaxed as a cat is, perfectly at
ease and yet vibrant with life. In the shadows of the litter her skin
showed silver-white and her loosened hair was a sweet darkness.

"Are you stubborn, wild man?" she asked. "Or do you find me
distasteful?"

He had not realized before how rich and soft her voice was. He looked
down at the magnificent supple length of her, and said,

"I find you most damnably attractive--and that's why I'm stubborn."

"Afraid?"

"I'm taking Kynon's pay. Should I take his woman also?"

She laughed, half scornfully. "Kynon's ambitions leave no room for me.
We have an agreement, because a king must have a queen--and he finds my
counsel useful. You see, I am ambitious, too! Apart from that, there is
nothing."

Stark looked at her, trying to read her smoke-grey eyes in the gloom.
"And Delgaun?"

"He wants me, but...." She hesitated, and then went on, in a tone
quite different from before, her voice low and throbbing with a secret
pleasure as vast and elemental as the star-shot sky.

"I belong to no one," she said. "I am my own."

Stark knew that for the moment she had forgotten him.

He rode for a time in silence, and then he said slowly, repeating
Delgaun's words,

"Perhaps you have forgotten something, Berild. There is nothing for you
in me, the creature of an hour."

He saw her start, and for a moment her eyes blazed and her breath was
sharply drawn. Then she laughed, and said,

"The wild man is also a parrot. And an hour can be a long time--as long
as eternity, if one wills it so."

"Yes," said Stark, "I have often thought so, waiting for death to come
at me out of a crevice in the rocks. The great lizard stings, and his
bite is fatal."

He leaned over in the saddle, his shoulders looming above hers, naked
in the biting wind.

"My hours with women are short ones," he said. "They come after the
battle, when there is time for such things. Perhaps then I'll come and
see you."

He spurred away and left her without a backward look, and the skin of
his back tingled with the expectancy of a flying knife. But the only
thing that followed him was a disturbing echo of laughter down the wind.

Dawn came. Kynon beckoned Stark to his side, and pointed out at the
cruel waste of sand, with here and there a reef of basalt black against
the burning white.

"This is the country you will lead your men over. Learn it." He was
speaking to Luhar as well. "Learn every water hole, every vantage
point, every trail that leads toward the Border. There are no
better fighters than the Dryland men when they're well led, and you
must prove to them that you can lead. You'll work with their own
chieftains--Freka, and the others you'll meet when we reach Sinharat."

Luhar said, "Sinharat?"

"My headquarters. It's about seven days' march--an island city, old as
the moons. The Rama cult was strong there, legend has it, and it's a
sort of holy place to the tribesmen. That's why I picked it."

He took a deep breath and smiled, looking out over the dead sea bottom
toward the Border, and his eyes held the same pitiless light as the sun
that baked the desert.

"Very soon, now," he said, more to himself than the others. "Only a
handful of days before we drown the Border states in their own blood.
And after that...."

He laughed, very softly, and said no more. Stark could believe that
what Berild said of him was true. There was a flame of ambition in
Kynon that would let nothing stand in its way.

He measured the size and the strength of the tall barbarian, the eagle
look of his face and the iron that lay beneath his joviality. Then
Stark, too, stared off toward the Border and wondered if he would ever
see Tarak or hear Simon Ashton's voice again.

For three days they marched without incident. At noon they made a dry
camp and slept away the blazing hours, and then went on again under
a darkening sky, a long line of tall men and rangy beasts, with the
scarlet litter blooming like a strange flower in the midst of it.
Jingling bridles and dust, and padded hoofs trampling the bones of the
sea, toward the island city of Sinharat.

Stark did not speak again to Berild, nor did she send for him. Fianna
would pass him in the camp, and smile sidelong, and go on. For her
sake, he did not stop her.

Neither Luhar nor Freka came near him. They avoided him pointedly,
except when Kynon called them all together to discuss some point of
strategy. But the two seemed to have become friends, and drank together
from the same bottle of wine.

Stark slept always beside his mount, his back guarded and his gun
loose. The hard lessons learned in his childhood had stayed with him,
and if there was a footfall near him in the dust he woke often before
the beast did.

       *       *       *       *       *

Toward morning of the fourth night the wind, that never seemed to
falter from its steady blowing, began to drop. At dawn it was dead
still, and the rising sun had a tinge of blood. The dust rose under the
feet of the beasts and fell again where it had risen.

Stark began to sniff the air. More and more often he looked toward the
north, where there was a long slope as flat as his palm that stretched
away farther than he could see.

A restless unease grew within him. Presently he spurred ahead to join
Kynon.

"There is a storm coming," he said, and turned his head northward again.

Kynon looked at him curiously.

"You even have the right direction," he said. "One might think you were
a native." He, too, gazed with brooding anger at the long sweep of
emptiness.

"I wish we were closer to the city. But one place is as bad as another
when the khamsin blows, and the only thing to do is keep moving. You're
a dead dog if you stop--dead and buried."

He swore, with a curious admixture of blunt Anglo-Saxon in his Martian
profanity, as though the storm were a personal enemy.

"Pass the word along to force it--dump whatever they have to to lighten
the loads. And get Berild out of that damned litter. Stick by her, will
you, Stark? I've got to stay here, at the head of the line. And don't
get separated. Above all, _don't get separated_!"

Stark nodded and dropped back. He got Berild mounted, and they left the
litter there, a bright patch of crimson on the sand, its curtains limp
in the utter stillness.

Nobody talked much. The beasts were urged on to the top of their speed.
They were nervous and fidgety, inclined to break out of line and run
for it. The sun rose higher.

One hour.

The windless air shimmered. The silence lay upon the caravan with a
crushing hand. Stark went up and down the line, lending a hand to the
sweating drovers with the pack animals that now carried only water
skins and a bare supply of food. Fianna rode close beside Berild.

Two hours.

For the first time that day there was a sound in the desert.

It came from far off, a moaning wail like the cry of a giantess in
travail. It rushed closer, rising as it did so to a dry and bitter
shriek that filled the whole sky, shook it, and tore it open, letting
in all the winds of hell.

It struck swiftly. One moment the air was clear and motionless. The
next, it was blind with dust and screaming as it fled, tearing with
demoniac fury at everything in its path.

Stark spurred toward the women, who were only a few feet away but
already hidden by the veil of mingled dust and sand.

Someone blundered into him in the murk. Long hair whipped across his
face and he reached out, crying "Fianna! Fianna!" A woman's hand caught
his, and a voice answered, but he could not hear the words.

Then, suddenly, his beast was crowded by other scaly bodies. The
woman's grip had broken. Hard masculine hands clawed at him. He could
make out, dimly, the features of two men, close to his.

Luhar, and Freka.

His beast gave a great lurch, and sprang forward. Stark was dragged
from the saddle, to fall backward into the raging sand.


                                  VII

He lay half-stunned for a moment, his breath knocked out of him. There
was a terrible reptilian screaming sounding thin through the roar of
the wind. Vague shapes bolted past him, and twice he was nearly crushed
by their trampling hoofs.

Luhar and Freka must have waited their chance. It was so beautifully
easy. Leave Stark alone and afoot, and the storm and the desert between
them would do the work, with no blame attaching to any man.

Stark got to his feet, and a human body struck him at the knees so that
he went down again. He grappled with it, snarling, before he realized
that the flesh between his hands was soft and draped in silken cloth.
Then he saw that he was holding Berild.

"It was I," she gasped, "and not Fianna."

Her words reached him very faintly, though he knew she was yelling at
the top of her lungs. She must have been knocked from her own mount
when Luhar thrust between them.

Gripping her tightly, so that she should not be blown away, Stark
struggled up again. With all his strength, it was almost impossible to
stand.

Blinded, deafened, half strangled, he fought his way forward a few
paces, and suddenly one of the pack beasts loomed shadow-like beside
him, going by with a rush and a squeal.

By the grace of Providence and his own swift reflexes, he caught its
pack lashings, clinging with the tenacity of a man determined not to
die. It floundered about, dragging them, until Berild managed to grasp
its trailing halter rope. Between them, they fought the creature down.

Stark clung to its head while the woman clambered to its back, twisting
her arm through the straps of the pad. A silken scarf whipped toward
him. He took it and tied it over the head of the beast so it could
breathe, and after that it was quieter.

There was no direction, no sight of anything, in that howling inferno.
The caravan seemed to have been scattered like a drift of autumn
leaves. Already, in the few brief moments he had stood still, Stark's
legs were buried to the knees in a substratum of sand that rolled
like water. He pulled himself free and started on, going nowhere,
remembering Kynon's words.

Berild ripped her thin robe apart and gave him another strip of silk
for himself. He bound it over his nose and eyes, and some of the
choking and the blindness abated.

Stumbling, staggering, beaten by the wind as a child is beaten by a
strong man, Stark went on, hoping desperately to find the main body of
the caravan, and knowing somehow that the hope was futile.

The hours that followed were nightmare. He shut his mind to them, in a
way that a civilized man would have found impossible. In his childhood
there had been days, and nights, and the problems had been simple
ones--how to survive one span of light that one might then struggle to
survive the span of darkness that came after. One thing, one danger, at
a time.

Now there was a single necessity. Keep moving. Forget tomorrow, or what
happened to the caravan, or where the little Fianna with her bright
eyes may be. Forget thirst, and the pain of breathing, and the fiery
lash of sand on naked skin. Only don't stand still.

It was growing dark when the beast fell against a half-buried boulder
and snapped its foreleg. Stark gave it a quick and merciful death. They
took the straps from the pad and linked themselves together. Each took
as much food as he could carry, and Stark shouldered the single skin of
water that fortune had vouchsafed them.

They staggered on, and Berild did not whimper.

Night came, and still the khamsin blew. Stark wondered at the woman's
strength, for he had to help her only when she fell. He had lost all
feeling himself. His body was merely a thing that continued to move
only because it had been ordered not to stop.

The haze in his own mind had grown as thick as the black obscurity of
the night. Berild had ridden all day, but he had walked, and there was
an end even to his strength. He was approaching it now, and was too
weary even to be afraid.

He became aware at some indeterminate time that Berild had fallen and
was dragging her weight against the straps. He turned blindly to help
her up. She was saying something, crying his name, striking at him so
that he should hear her words and understand.

At last he did. He pulled the wrappings from his face and breathed
clean air. The wind had fallen. The sky was growing clear.

He dropped in his tracks and slept, with the exhausted woman half dead
beside him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thirst brought them both awake in the early dawn. They drank from the
skin, and then sat for a time looking at the desert, and at each other,
thinking of what lay ahead.

"Do you know where we are?" Stark asked.

"Not exactly." Berild's face was shadowed with weariness. It had
changed, and somehow, to Stark, it had grown more beautiful, because
there was no weakness in it.

She thought a minute, looking at the sun. "The wind blew from the
north," she said. "Therefore we have come south from the track.
Sinharat lies that way, across the waste they call the Belly of
Stones." She pointed to the north and east.

"How far?"

"Seven, eight days, afoot."

Stark measured their supply of water and shook his head. "It'll be dry
walking."

He rose and took up the skin, and Berild came beside him without a
word. Her red hair hung loose over her shoulders. The rags of her
silken robe had been torn away by the wind, leaving her only the loose
skirt of the desert women, and her belt and collar of jewels.

She walked erect with a steady, swinging stride, and it was almost
impossible for Stark to remember her as she had been, riding like a
lazy queen in her scarlet litter.

There was no way to shelter themselves from the midday sun. The sun of
Mars at its worst, however, was only a pale candle beside the sun of
Mercury, and it did not bother Stark. He made Berild lie in the shadow
of his own body, and he watched her face, relaxed and unfamiliar in
sleep.

For the first time, then, he was conscious of a strangeness in her.
He had seen so little of her before, in Valkis, and almost nothing on
the trail. Now, there was little of her mind or heart that she could
conceal from him.

Or was there? There were moments, while she slept, when the shadows of
strange dreams crossed her face. Sometimes, in the unguarded moment of
waking, he would see in her eyes a look he could not read, and his
primitive senses quivered with a vague ripple of warning.

Yet all through those blazing days and frosty nights, tortured with
thirst and weary to exhaustion, Berild was magnificent. Her white skin
was darkened by the sun and her hair became a wild red mane, but she
smiled and set her feet resolutely by his, and Stark thought she was
the most beautiful creature he had ever seen.

On the fourth day they climbed a scarp of limestone worn in ages past
by the sea, and looked out over the place called the Belly of Stones.

The sea bottom curved downward below them into a sort of gigantic
basin, the farther rim of which was lost in shimmering waves of heat.
Stark thought that never, even on Mercury, had he seen a place more
cruel and utterly forsaken of gods or men.

It seemed as though some primal glacier must have met its death here
in the dim dawn of Mars, hollowing out its own grave. The body of the
glacier had melted away, but its bones were left.

Bones of basalt, of granite and marble and porphyry, of every
conceivable color and shape and size, picked up by the ice as it
marched southward from the pole and dropped here as a cairn to mark its
passing.

The Belly of Stones. Stark thought that its other name was Death....

For the first time, Berild faltered. She sat down and bent her head
over her hands.

"I am tired," she said. "Also, I am afraid."

Stark asked, "Has it ever been crossed?"

"Once. But they were a war party, mounted and well supplied."

Stark looked out across the stones. "We will cross it," he said.

Berild raised her head. "Somehow I believe you." She rose slowly and
put her hands on his breast, over the strong beating of his heart.

"Give me your strength, wild man," she whispered. "I shall need it."

He drew her to him and kissed her, and it was a strange and painful
kiss, for their lips were cracked and bleeding from their terrible
thirst. Then they went down together into the place called the Belly of
Stones.


                                 VIII

The desert had been a pleasant and kindly place. Stark looked back upon
it with longing. And yet this inferno of blazing rock was so like the
valleys of his boyhood that it did not occur to him to lie down and die.

They rested for a time in the sheltered crevice under a great leaning
slab of blood-red stone, moistening their swollen tongues with a few
drops of stinking water from the skin. At nightfall they drank the last
of it, but Berild would not let him throw the skin away.

Darkness, and a lunar silence. The chill air sucked the day's heat
out of the rocks and the iron frost came down, so that Stark and the
red-haired woman must keep moving or freeze.

Stark's mind grew clouded. He spoke from time to time, in a croaking
whisper, dropping back into the harsh mother-tongue of the Twilight
Belt. It seemed to him that he was hunting, as he had so many times
before, in the waterless places--for the blood of the great lizard
would save him from thirst.

But nothing lived in the Belly of Stones. Nothing, but the two who
crept and staggered across it under the low moons.

Berild fell, and could not rise again. Stark crouched beside her. Her
face stared up at him, white in the moonlight, her eyes burning and
strange.

"I will not die!" she whispered, not to him, but to the gods. "_I will
not die!_"

And she clawed the sand and the bitter rocks, dragging herself onward.
It was uncanny, the madness that she had for life.

Stark raised her up and carried her. His breath came in deep sobbing
gasps. After a while he, too, fell. He went on like a beast on all
fours, dragging the woman.

He knew dimly that he was climbing. There was a glimmering of dawn in
the sky. His hands slipped on a lip of sand and he went rolling down
a smooth slope. At length he stopped and lay on his back like a dead
thing.

The sun was high when consciousness returned to him. He saw Berild
lying near him and crawled to her, shaking her until her eyes opened.
Her hands moved feebly and her lips formed the same four words. _I will
not die._

Stark strained his eyes to the horizon, praying for a glimpse of
Sinharat, but there was nothing, only emptiness and sand. With great
difficulty he got the woman to her feet, supporting her.

He tried to tell her that they must go on, but he could no longer form
the words. He could only gesture and urge her forward, in the direction
of the city.

But she refused to go. "Too far ... die ... without water...."

He knew that she was right, but still he was not ready to give up.

She began to move away from him, toward the south, and he thought that
she had gone mad and was wandering. Then he saw that she was peering
with awful intensity at the line of the scarp that formed this wall
of the Belly of Stones. It rose into a great ridge, serrated like the
backbone of a whale, and some three miles away a long dorsal fin of
reddish rock curved out into the desert.

Berild made a little sobbing noise in her throat. She began to plod
toward the distant promontory.

Stark caught up with her. He tried to stop her, but she would not be
stopped, turning a feral glare upon him.

She croaked, "Water!" and pointed.

He was sure now that she was mad. He told her so, forcing the painful
words out of his throat, reminding her of Sinharat and that she was
going away from any possible help.

She said again, quite sanely, "Too far. Two--three days without water."
She pointed. "Monastery--old well--a chance...."

Stark decided that he had little to lose by trusting her. He nodded and
went with her toward the curve of rock.

The three miles might have been three hundred. At last they came up
under the ragged cliffs--and there was nothing there but sand.

Stark looked at the woman. A great rage and a deep sense of futility
came over him. They were indeed lost.

But Berild had gone a few steps farther. With a hoarse cry, she bent
over what had seemed merely a slab of stone fallen from the cliff, and
Stark saw that it was a carven pillar, half buried. Now he was able to
make out the mounded shape of a ruin, of which only the foundations and
a few broken columns were left.

For a long while Berild stood by the pillar, her eyes closed. Stark got
the uncanny feeling that she was visualizing the place as it had been,
though the wall must have been dust a thousand years ago. Presently she
moved. He followed her, and it was strange to see her, on the naked
sand, treading the arbitrary patterns of vanished corridors.

She came to a halt, in a broad flat space that might once have been a
central courtyard. There she fell on her knees and began to dig.

Stark got down beside her. They scrabbled like a pair of dogs in the
yielding sand. Stark's nails slipped across something hard, and there
was a yellow glint through the dusty ochre. Within a few minutes they
had bared a golden cover six feet across, very massive and wonderfully
carved with the symbols of some lost god of the sea.

Stark struggled to lift the thing away. He could not move it. Then
Berild pressed a hidden spring and the cover slid back of itself.
Beneath it, sweet and cold, protected through all these ages, water
stirred gently against mossy stones.

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later, Stark and Berild lay sleeping, soaked to the skin, their
very hair dripping with the blessed dampness.

That night, when the low moons roved over the desert, they sat by the
well, drowsy with an animal sense of rest and repletion. And Stark
looked at the woman and said,

"I know you now."

"What do you know, wild man?"

Stark said quietly, "You are a Rama."

She did not answer at once. Then she said, "I was bred in these
deserts. Is it so strange that I should know of this well?"

"Strange that you didn't mention it before. You were afraid, weren't
you, that if you led me here your secret would come out? But it was
that, or die."

He leaned forward, studying her.

"If you had led me straight to the well, I might not have wondered. But
you had to stop and remember, how the halls were built and where the
doorways were that led to the inner court. You lived in this place when
it was whole. And no one, not even Kynon himself, knows of it but you."

"You dream, wild man. The moon is in your eyes."

Stark shook his head slowly. "I know."

She laughed, and stretched her arms wide on the sand.

"But I am young," she said. "And men have told me I am beautiful. It
is good to be young, for youth has nothing to do with ashes and empty
skulls."

She touched his arm, and little darts of fire went through his flesh,
warm from his fingertips.

"Forget your dreams, wild man. They're madness, gone with the morning."

He looked down at her in the clear pale light, and she was young, and
beautifully made, and her lips were smiling.

He bent his head. Her arms went round him. Her hair blew soft against
his cheek. Then, suddenly, she set her teeth cruelly into his lip. He
cried out and thrust her away, and she sat back on her heels, mocking
him.

"That," she said, "is because you called Fianna's name instead of mine,
when the storm broke."

Stark cursed her. There was a taste of blood in his mouth. He reached
out and caught her, and again she laughed, a peculiarly sweet, wicked
sound.

The wind blew over them, sighing, and the desert was very still.

For two days they remained among the ruins. At evening of the second
day Stark filled the water skin, and Berild replaced the golden cover
on the well. They began the last long march toward Sinharat.


                                  IX

Stark saw it rising against the morning sky--a city of gold and marble,
high on an island of rose-red coral laid bare by the vanished sea.
Sinharat, the Ever-Living.

Yet it had died. As he came closer to it, plodding slowly through the
sand, he saw that the place was no more than a beautiful corpse, the
lovely towers broken, the roofless palaces open to the sky. Whatever
life Kynon and his armies might have foisted upon Sinharat was no more
than the fleeting passage of ants across the perfect bones of the dead.

"What was it like before?" he asked, "with the blue water around it,
and the banners flying?"

Berild turned a dark, calculating look upon him.

"I told you before to forget that madness. If you talk it, no one will
believe you."

"No one?"

"You had best not anger me, wild man," she said quietly. "I may be your
only hope of life, before this is over."

They did not speak again, going with slow weary steps toward the city.

In the desert below the coral cliffs the armies of Kynon were encamped.
The tall warriors of Kesh and Shun waiting, with their women and their
beasts and their shining spears, for the pipers to cry them over
the Border. The skin tents and the long picket lines were too many
to count. In the distance, a convertible Kallman spacer that Stark
recognized as Knighton's made an ugly, jarring incongruity.

Lookouts sighted the two toiling figures in the distance. Men and women
and children began to stream out across the sand, and presently a
great cheering arose. Where he had looked on emptiness for days, Stark
was smothered now by the press of thousands. Berild was picked up and
carried on the shoulders of two chiefs, and men would have carried
Stark also, but he fought them off.

Broad flights of steps were cut in the coral. The throng flowed upward
along them. Ahead of them all went Eric John Stark, and he was smiling.
From time to time he asked a question, and men drew back from that
question, and his smile.

Up the steps and into the streets of Sinharat he went, with a slow,
restless stride, asking,

"Where is Luhar of Venus?"

Every man there read death in his face, but they did not try to stop
him.

People came out of the graceful ruins, drawn by the clamour, and the
tide rolled down the broad ways, the rose-red streets of coral, until
it spread out in the square before a great palace of gold and ivory and
white marble blinding in the sun.

Luhar of Venus came down the terraced steps, fresh from sleep, his pale
hair tumbled, his eyes still drowsy.

Others came through the door behind him. Stark did not see them. They
did not matter. Berild didn't matter, calling his name from where she
sat on the shoulders of the chiefs. Nothing, no one mattered, but
himself and Luhar.

He crossed the square, not hurrying, a dark ravaged giant in rags. He
saw Luhar pause on the bottom step. He saw the sleep and the vagueness
go out of the Venusian's eyes as they rested first on the red-haired
woman, then on himself. He saw the fear come into them, and the undying
hate.

Someone got between him and Luhar. Stark lifted the man and flung him
aside without breaking his stride, and went on. Luhar half turned. He
would have run away, back into the palace, but there were too many now
between him and the door. He crouched and drew his gun.

Stark sprang.

He came like a great black panther leaping, and he struck low. Luhar's
shot went over his back. After that there was no more shooting. There
was a moment, terribly short and silent, in which the two men lay
entangled, straining against each other in a sort of stasis. Then Luhar
screamed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stark knew dimly that there were hands, many of them, trying to drag
him away. He clung growling to the Venusian until he was torn loose by
main force. He struggled against his captors, and through a red haze he
saw Kynon's face, close to his and very angry. Luhar was not yet dead.

"I warned you, Stark!" said Kynon furiously. "I warned you."

Men were bending over Luhar. Knighton, Walsh, Themis, Arrod. Stark saw
that Delgaun was among them. He did not question at the time how word
had gone back to Valkis and sent Delgaun racing across the dead sea
bottom with his hired bravoes to search for the red-haired woman. It
was right that Delgaun should be there.

In short ragged sentences, Stark told how Luhar and Freka had tried to
kill him, and how Berild had been lost with him.

Kynon turned to the Venusian. Death was already glazing the cloud-grey
eyes, but it had not quenched the hatred and the venom.

"He lies," whispered Luhar. "I saw him--he tried to run away and take
the woman with him."

Luhar of Venus, taking vengeance with his last breath.

Freka pushed forward, transparently eager to pick up his cue. "It is
so," he said. "I was with Luhar. I saw it also."

Delgaun laughed. Cruel, silent laughter. He stood up, and looked at
Berild.

Berild's eyes were blazing. She ignored Delgaun and spoke to Kynon.

"You fool. Can't you see that they hate him? What Stark says is true.
And I would have died in the desert because of them, if Stark hadn't
been a better man than all of you."

"Strange words," said Delgaun, "coming from a man's own mate. Perhaps
Luhar did lie, after all. Perhaps it was not Stark who tried to run
away, but you."

She cursed him, with an ancient curse, and Kynon looked at her
sullenly. He said to the men who held Stark, "Chain him below, in the
dungeons." Then he took Berild's arm and went with her into the palace.

Stark fought until someone behind him knocked him on the head with the
butt of a spear. The last thing he saw was the face of Fianna, standing
out from the crowd, wide-eyed with pity and love.

He came to in a place of cold, dry stone. There was an iron collar
around his neck, and a five-foot chain ran from it to a ring in the
wall. The cell was small. A gate of iron bars closed the single
entrance. Beyond was an open well, with other cell doors around it, and
above were thick stone gratings open to the sky. He guessed that the
place was built beneath some inner court of the palace.

There were no other prisoners. But there was a guard, a
thick-shouldered barbarian who sat on the execution block in the center
of the well, with a sword and a jug of wine. A guard who watched the
captive Stark smiled.

Freka.

When he saw that Stark was awake, Freka lifted up the jug and laughed.
"Here's to Death," he said. "For no one else comes here!"

He drank, and after that he did not speak, only sat and smiled.

Stark said nothing either. He waited, with the same unhuman patience he
had shown when he waited for his captors under the tor.

The dim daylight faded from the gratings. Darkness came, and the pale
glimmer of the moons. Freka became a silvered statue of a man, sitting
on the block. Stark's eyes glowed.

The empty jug dropped and broke. Freka rose. He took the naked sword in
his hand and crossed the open space to the cell. He lifted the outer
bar away. It fell with a great echoing clang, and Freka entered.

"Stand up, Outlander," he said. "Stand up and face the steel. After
that you'll sleep in a coral pit, and not even the worms will find you."

"Beast of Shanga!" Stark said contemptuously, and set his back against
the wall, to give himself all the slack of the chain.

He saw the bright steel glimmer in the air, up and down again, but when
the blow fell he had leaped aside, and the point struck ringing against
the stone. Stark darted in to grapple.

His fingers slipped on hard muscle, and Freka wrenched away. He was
a fighting man, and no weakling. The iron collar dug painfully into
the Earthman's throat and the heavy chain threw him backward. Freka
laughed, deep in his chest. The sword glinted hungrily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, as though she had taken shape suddenly from the shadows, Fianna
was in the doorway. The little gun in her hand made a hissing spurt of
flame. Freka screamed once, and fell. He did not move again.

"The swine," Fianna said, without emotion. "Delgaun ordered him to
wait, until it was sure that Kynon would not come down to talk to you.
Then the story was to be that you had escaped somehow, with Berild's
aid."

She stepped over the body and unlocked the iron collar with a key she
took from her girdle.

Stark took her slender shoulders gently between his hands. "Are you a
witch-girl, that you know all things and always come when I need you?"

She gave him a deep, strange look. In the dusk, her proud young face
was unfamiliar, touched with something fey and sad. He wished that he
could see her eyes more clearly.

"I know all things because I must," she told him wearily. "And I think
that you are my only hope--perhaps the only hope of Mars."

He drew her to him, and kissed her, and stroked her dark head. "You're
too young to concern yourself with the destinies of worlds."

He felt her tremble. "The youth of the body is only illusion, when the
mind is old."

"And is yours old, little one?"

"Old," she whispered. "As old as Berild's."

He felt her tears warm against his skin, and she was like a child in
his arms.

"Then you know about her," said Stark.

"Yes."

He paused. "And Delgaun?"

"Delgaun also."

"I thought so," Stark said. He nodded, scowling at the barred moonlight
in the well. "There are things I must know, myself--but we'd best get
out of here. Did Berild send you?"

"Yes--as soon as she could get the key from Kynon. She is waiting for
you." She stirred Freka's body with her foot. "Bring that. We'll hide
it in the pit he meant for you."

Stark heaved the body over his shoulder and followed the girl through
a twisting maze of corridors, some pitch dark, some feebly lighted by
the moons. Fianna moved as surely as though she were in the main square
at high noon. There was the silence of death in these cold tunnels, and
the dry faint smell of eternity.

At length Fianna whispered. "Here. Be careful."

She put out a hand to guide him, but Stark's eyes were like a cat's in
the dark. He made out a space where the rock with which the ancient
builders had faced these subterranean ways gave place to the original
coral.

Ragged black mouths opened in the coral, entrances to some unguessed
catacombs beneath. Stark consigned Freka to the nearest pit, and then
reluctantly threw his sword in after him.

"You won't need it," Fianna told him, "and besides, it would be
recognized. This will be a bitter night enough, without rousing the men
of Shun over Freka's death."

Stark listened to the distant sliding echoes from the pit, and
shivered. He had so nearly finished there himself. He was glad to
follow Fianna away from that place of darkness and silent death.

He stopped her in a place where a bar of moonlight came splashing
through a great crack in the tunnel roof.

"Now," he said, "we will talk."

She nodded. "Yes. The time has come for that."

"There are lies everywhere," said Stark. "I am tangled up in lies. You
know the truth that is behind this war of Kynon's. Tell me."

"Kynon's truth is simple," she answered, speaking slowly, choosing her
words. "He wants land and power, conquest. He will pour out the blood
of his people for that, and after that he plans to use the men of the
Low-Canals under Delgaun to keep the tribesmen in line. It may be
true, as he said, that they would be satisfied with grazing land and
water--but they would lose their freedom, and their pride, and I think
he has judged them wrongly. I think they would revolt."

She looked up at Stark. "He planned to use your knowledge, and then
destroy you if you became troublesome."

"I guessed that. What about the others?"

"The outlanders? Use them, keep them as subordinates, or pay them off.
Kill them, if necessary."

"Now," said Stark. "What of Delgaun and Berild?"

Fianna said softly, "Their truth, too, is simple. They took Kynon's
idea of empire, and stretched it further. It was Delgaun's idea to
bring the strangers in. They would use Kynon and the tribes until
the victory was won. Then they would do away with Kynon and rule
themselves--with the outlanders and their ships and their powerful
weapons to oppress Low-Canaller and Drylander alike.

"That way, they could rape a world. More outland vultures would come,
drawn by the smell of loot. The Martian men would fight as long as
there was the hope of plunder--after that, they would be slaves to
hold the empire. Their masters would grow fat on tribute from the
City-States and from the men of Earth who have built here, or who wish
to build. An evil plan--but profitable."

Stark thought about Knighton and Walsh of Terra, Themis of Mercury,
Arrod of Callisto Colony. He thought of others like them, and what they
would do, with their talons hooked in the heart of Mars. He thought of
Delgaun's yellow eyes.

He thought of Berild, and he was sick with loathing.

Fianna came close to him, speaking in a different tone that had care
and anxiety only for him.

"I have told you this, because I know what Berild plans. Tonight--oh,
tonight is a black and evil time, and death waits in Sinharat! It is
very close to me, I know. And you must follow your own heart, Eric John
Stark. I cannot tell you more."

He kissed her again, because she was sweet and very brave. Then she led
him on through the dark labyrinth, to where Berild was waiting, with
her dangerous beauty and all the evil of the ages in her soul.


                                   X

They came out of the darkness so suddenly that Stark blinked in the
unaccustomed light of torches set in great silver sconces on the walls.

The floor had been artificially smoothed, but otherwise this crypt was
as the eroding action of the sea had shaped it out of the coral reef.
It was not large, and it was like a cavern in a fairy tale, walled and
roofed with the fantastic wreathing shapes of the rose-red coral. At
one end there was a golden coffer set with flaming jewels.

Berild was there. Her wonderful hair was dressed and shining, and her
body was clothed all in white, her arms and shoulders warm bronze from
the kiss of the desert sun.

Kynon was there, also. He stood motionless and silent, and he did not
so much as turn his head when Fianna and Stark came in. His eyes were
wide open and blank as a blind man's.

"I have been waiting," said Berild, "and the time is short."

She seemed angry and impatient, and Stark said, "Freka is dead. It was
necessary to hide his body."

She nodded and turned to the girl. "Go now, Fianna."

Fianna bent her head and went away. She did not look at Stark. It was
as though she had no interest in anything that happened.

Stark looked at Kynon, who had not moved or spoken.

"He is safe enough," said Berild, answering Stark's unspoken question.
"I drugged his wine so that his mind was opened to mine, and he is my
creature as long as I will it."

Hypnosis, Stark thought. His nerves were beginning to do strange
things. He wished desperately that he were back in the cell facing
Freka's sword, which at least would deal with him openly and without
guile or subterfuge.

Berild set her hands on Stark's shoulders, and smiled as she had done
that night by the ancient well.

"I offer you three things tonight, wild man," she said. Her eyes
challenged him, and the scent of her hair was sweet and maddening.

"Your life--and power--and myself."

Stark let his hands slip lightly down from her shoulders to her waist.
"And how will you do this thing?" he asked.

"Easily," she said, and laughed. She was very proud, and sure of her
strength, and glad to be alive. "Oh, very easily. You guessed the truth
about me--I am of the Twice-Born, the Ramas. I hold the secret of the
Sending-on of Minds, which this great ox Kynon pretended to have. I can
give you life now--and forever. Remember, wild man--forever!"

He bent his dark face to hers, so that their lips touched, and
murmured, "Would I have you forever, Berild?"

"Until you tire of me--or I of you." She kissed him, and then added
mockingly, "Delgaun has had me for a thousand years, and I am weary of
him. So very weary!"

"A thousand years is a long time," said Stark, "and I am not Delgaun."

"No. You're a beast, a savage, a most magnificent cold-eyed animal, and
that is why I love you." She touched the muscle of his breast, and then
his throat, and added, "It's a pity there will never be another body
like this one. We must keep it as long as we can."

"What is your plan?" Stark asked her.

"Simply this. I will place your mind in Kynon's body. You will _be_
Kynon, with all his power. You will be able then to keep Delgaun in
check--later, you can destroy him, but not until after the battle is
won, for we need the men of Valkis and Jekkara. You can keep your own
body safe from him, and at the worst, if by some chance he should
succeed in slaying the man he believes to be you, _you_ will still be
alive."

"And after the battle," said Stark softly. "What then, Berild?"

"We will rule together." She held his palms against hers. "You have
strong hands, wild man. Would you not like to hold a world between
them--and me?"

She looked up at him, her eyes suddenly shrewd and probing. "Or do you
still believe the nonsense you talked to Kynon, about the tribes?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Stark smiled. "It's easy to have principles when there's no gain
involved. No. I am as my name says--a man without a tribe. I have no
loyalties. And if I had, would I remember them now?"

He held her, as she had said, between his hands, and they were very
strong.

But even then, Berild could warn him.

"Keep faith with me, then! My wisdom is greater than yours, and I have
powers you don't dream of. What I give, I can take away."

For answer, Stark silenced her mouth with his own.

When she drew away, she said rather breathlessly, "Let us hurry. The
tribes are gathered, and Kynon was to have given the signal for war at
dawn. There is much I must teach you between now and then."

She paused with her hand on the lid of the golden coffer. "This is a
secret place," she said quietly. "Since before the ocean died, it has
been secret. Not even Kynon knew of it. I think only Delgaun and I, the
last of the Twice-Born, knew--and now you."

"What about Fianna?"

Berild shrugged. "She is only my servant. To her, this is only a little
cavern where I keep my private wealth."

She pressed a series of patterned bosses in intricate sequence, and
there was the sharp click of an opening lock. A shiver ran up along
Stark's spine. The beast in him longed to run, to be away from this
whole business that smelled of evil. But the man in him knelt at
Berild's wish, and waited, and did not flinch when the blank-eyed Kynon
came like a moving corpse beside him.

Berild raised the golden lid. And there was a great silence.

On the slave block of Valkis, Kynon had brought forth two crowns of
shining crystal, and a rod of flame. As glass is to diamond, as the
pallid moon to the light of the sun, were those things to the reality.

In her two hands Berild held the ancient crowns of the Ramas, the
givers of life. Twin circlets of glorious fire, dimming the shallow
glare of the torches, putting a nimbus of light around the white-clad
woman so that she was like a goddess walking in a cloud of stars.
Stark's whole being contracted to a point of icy pain at the beauty and
the wonder and the terror of them.

She set one crown on Kynon's head, and even the drugged automaton
shivered and sighed at its touch.

Stark's mind veered away from the incredible thing that was about to
happen. It spoke words to him, hurried desperate words of sanity, about
the electrical patterns of the mind, and the sensitivity of crystals,
and conductors, and electro-magnetic impulses. But that was only the
top of his brain. At base it was still the brain of N'Chaka that
believed in gods and demons and all the sorceries of darkness. Only
pride kept him from cowering abjectly at Berild's feet.

She stood above him, a creature of dreams in the unearthly light. She
smiled and whispered, "Do not fear,"--and she placed the second crown
upon his head.

A strange, shuddering fire swept through him. It was as though some
chip of the primal heart of all creation had been set by an unguessed
magic into the cells of the crystal. The force that shaped the universe
and scattered forth the stars, and set the great suns to spinning.
There was something awesome about it, something almost holy.

And yet he was afraid. Most shockingly afraid.

His brain was set free, in some strange fashion. The walls of his skull
vanished. His mind floated in a dim vastness. It was like a tiny sun,
glowing, spinning, swelling....

Berild lifted a crystal rod from the coffer, a wand of sorcerous fire.
And now Stark's thoughts had lost all track of science. A cloud of
misty darkness flowed around him, thickened....

A great leaping flare of light, a distant echo of a cry that he did not
recognize as his own, and then....

Nothing.


                                  XI

He was lying on his face, his cheek pressed against the cool coral. He
opened his eyes, his mind groping for the shreds of some remembered
terror. He saw, vaguely at first and then with terrible clarity as his
vision became clear, a man lying close beside him.

A tall man, very strongly built, with skin burned almost to blackness
by exposure. A man who looked at him with eyes that were startlingly
light in his dark face....

His own eyes. His own face.

He cried out and struggled to his feet, trembling, staggering, and
his body felt strange to him. He looked down upon the strangeness of
another man's limbs, the alien shaping of flesh and sinew upon alien
bones.

The face of the dark giant who lay upon the coral mocked him. It
watched, but did not see. The eyes were blank, empty, without soul or
intelligence.

The mind of Eric John Stark fought, in its alien prison, for sanity.

Berild's voice spoke to him. Her hand was on his shoulder--Kynon's
shoulder....

"All is well, wild man. Do not fear. Kynon's mind is in your body,
still sleeping at my command. And you are Kynon now."

It was not an easy thing to accept, but he knew that it was so, and he
knew that he had wished it to be so. It was easier to be calm after he
turned his back on _the other_.

Berild took him in her arms and held him until he had stopped
shuddering, oddly like a mother with a frightened child. Then she
kissed him, smiling, and said,

"The first time is hard. I can remember--and that was very long ago."
She shook him gently. "Now come. We'll take your body to a place
of safety. And then I must tell you all of Kynon's plans for those
outside."

She spoke to the thing that lay upon the coral, saying, "Get up," and
it rose obediently and followed where Berild led, to a tiny barred
niche in a side passage. It made no protest when it was left, locked
safely in.

"Only I can give it back to you," said Berild softly. "Remember that."

Stark said, "I will remember."

He went with Berild to Kynon's quarters in the palace. He sat among
Kynon's possessions, clothed in Kynon's flesh, and learned how Kynon's
mind had planned to loose a red tide upon the peaceful cities of the
Border.

Only a small part of his mind was attentive to this. The rest of it was
concerned with the redness of Berild's hair and the warmth of her lips,
and with the heady knowledge that it was possible to be alive and young
forever.

Never to lose the pride of strength, never to know the dimming
sight and failing mind of age. To go on, like a child in an endless
playground, with no fear of tomorrow.

It was nearly dawn.

Berild rose. She had told him much, but not the things Fianna had told
him, of the secret treachery she had planned with Delgaun. She helped
Stark to clothe Kynon's body in the harness of war, with the longsword
and the shield and the shining spear. Then she set her lips to his so
that his borrowed heart threatened to choke him with its pounding, and
her eyes were wondrously bright and beautiful.

"It is time," she whispered.

She walked beside him, as he had seen her beside Kynon in Valkis,
stepping like a queen.

They came out of the palace, onto the steps where Luhar had died. There
were beasts waiting, trapped for war, and an escort of tall chiefs,
with pipers and drummers and link-boys to light the way.

Stark mounted Kynon's beast. It sensed the wrongness in him, hissing
and rearing, but he held it down, and imperiously raised his hand.

Throbbing drums and skirling pipes, tossing flames where the link-boys
ran with the torches, a clash of metal and a cheer, and Kynon of Shun
rode down through the streets of Sinharat to the coral cliffs, with the
red-haired woman at his side.

They were waiting.

       *       *       *       *       *

The men of Kesh and the men of Shun were gathered below the cliffs,
waiting. Stark led the way, as Berild had told him to, onto a ledge of
coral above them. Delgaun was there, with the outlanders and a handful
of Valkisians. He looked tired and ill-tempered. Stark knew that he had
been busy for hours with last-minute preparations.

The first pale rays of dawn broke across the desert. A vast ringing cry
went up from the gathered armies. After that there was silence, a taut
expectant hush.

There was no fear in Stark now. He was past that. Fear was too small an
emotion for what was about to be.

He saw Delgaun's golden eyes, hot with a cruel excitement. He saw
Berild's secret triumph in her smile. He looked down upon the warriors,
and let the magnificent voice of Kynon ring out across the soundless
air.

"There will be no war," he said. "You have been betrayed."

In the moment that was left to him, he confessed the lie of the Rama
crowns. And then Berild, who was behind him now, had moved like a
red-haired fury to drive her dagger into his heart.

In his own body, Stark might have escaped the blow. But the reflexes of
Kynon were not as his. They were swift enough to postpone death--the
blade bit deep, but not where Berild had wished it. He turned and
caught her by the wrists, and said to Delgaun,

"She has betrayed you, too. Freka lies in a coral pit--and I am not
Kynon."

Berild tore away from him. She spurred her beast toward the Valkisian.
She would have broken past him, through the escort, and up the cliffs
to safety in the tunnels under Sinharat. But Delgaun was too quick.

[Illustration: _She would have broken past him, but Delgaun was too
quick._]

One hand caught in the masses of her hair. She was dragged screaming
from the saddle, and even then her screams were not of fear, but of
fury. She clawed at Delgaun, and he fell with her to the ground.

The tall chieftains of the escort came forward, but they were dazed,
and confused by the anger that was rising in them. Delgaun's wiry body
arched. He flung the woman over the ledge, and what happened to her
after that Stark did not see, nor wish to see.

He was shouting again to the barbarians, the tale of Delgaun's
treachery.

Behind him on the ledge there was turmoil where Delgaun ran on foot
between the beasts, and the outlanders made their try for safety. Below
him in the desert, where there had been silence, a great deep muttering
was growing, like the first growling of a storm, and the ranks of
spears rippled like wheat before the wind.

And Stark felt the slow running out of Kynon's blood inside him, where
Berild's dagger stood out from his back.

They had headed Delgaun away from the path up the cliff. The two loose
mounts had been caught and held. They had tried to catch Delgaun, but
he was light and fast and slipped away from them. Now he broke back,
toward Kynon's great beast.

Knock the dying man from the saddle, charge through the milling
chieftains, who were hampered by their own numbers in that narrow
space....

He leaped. And the arms of Kynon, driven by the will of Eric John
Stark, encircled him and held him and would not let him go.

The two men crashed to the ledge. Stark let out one harsh cry of agony,
and then was still, his hands locked around the Valkisian's throat, his
eyes intent and strange.

Men came up, and he gasped, "He is mine," and they let him be.

Delgaun did not die easily. He managed to get his dagger out, and
gashed the other's side until the naked ribs showed through. But once
again Stark's mind was free in some dark immensity of its own. He was
living again the dream he had in Valkis, and this was the end of the
dream. N'Chaka had a grip at last on the demon with yellow eyes that
hungered for his life, and he would not let go.

The yellow eyes widened. They blazed, and then they slowly dimmed until
the last flicker of life was gone. The strength went out of N'Chaka's
hands. He fell forward, over his prey.

Below, on the sand, Berild lay, and her outspread hair was as red as
blood in the fiery dawn.

The men of Kesh and the men of Shun flowed in a resistless tide up
over the coral cliffs. The chieftains and the pipers and the link-boys
joined them, hunting the outlanders and the wolves of Valkis through
the streets of Sinharat.

Unnoticed, a dark-haired girl ran down the path to the ledge. She bent
over the body of Kynon, pressing her hand to its heart. Tears ran down
and mingled with the blood.

A low, faint moan came from the man's lips. Weeping like a child,
Fianna drew a tiny vial from her girdle and poured three drops of pale
liquid on the unresponsive tongue.


                                  XII

He had come a long way. He had been down in the deep black valleys of
the Place of Darkness, and the iron frost was in his bones. He had
climbed the bitter mountains where no creature of the Twilight Belt
might go and live.

There was light, now. He had been lost and wandering, but he had won
back to the light. His tribe, his people would be waiting for him. But
he knew that he would never see them.

He remembered, then, with the old terrible loneliness, that they were
not truly his people. They had raised him, but they were not of his
blood.

And he remembered also that they were dead, slain by the miners who had
needed all the water of the valley for themselves. Slain by the miners
who had taken N'Chaka and put him in a cage.

With a start of terror, he thought he was again in that cage, with the
leering bearded faces peering in at him. But in the blinding dazzle of
light he could see no bars.

There was only one face. The anxious, pitying face of a girl.

Fianna.

His brain began to clear. Memory returned bit by bit, the fragments
fitting themselves gradually into place.

Kynon. Delgaun. Berild. Sinharat, the Ever-Living.

He remembered now with perfect clarity that he was dying, and it
seemed a terrible thing to die in the body of another man. For the
first time, fully, he felt the separation from his own flesh. It seemed
a blasphemous thing, more terrible than death.

Fianna was weeping. She stroked his hair, and whispered, "I am so glad.
I was afraid--afraid you would never wake."

He was touched, because he knew that she loved him and would be sad. He
lifted his hand to touch her face, to comfort her.

He saw the fingers of that hand, dark against her cheek. Dark....

His own fingers. His own hand.

He was not on the ledge. He was back in the coral crypt beneath the
palace. The light that had dazzled his eyes was not the sun, but only
the flare of torches.

He sat up, his heart pounding wildly.

Kynon of Shun lay beside him on the coral. He was quite dead, his head
encircled by a crown of fire, his side open to the white bone where
Delgaun's blade had struck.

The wound that Kynon himself had never felt.

The golden coffer was open. The second crown lay near Fianna, with the
rod beside it.

Stark looked at her, deep into her eyes. Very softly he said, "I would
not have dreamed it."

"You will understand, now--many things," she said. "And I was glad of
my power today, because I could truly give you life!"

She rose, and he saw that she was very tired. Her voice was dull, as
though it counted over old things that no longer mattered.

"You see why I was afraid. If _they_ had ever suspected that I, too,
was of the Twice-Born ... Berild or Delgaun, each alone, I might have
destroyed, but I could not destroy both of them. And if I had, there
was still Kynon. You did what I could not, Eric John Stark."

"Why were you against them, Fianna? How were you proof against the
poison that made them what they were?"

She answered angrily, "Because I am weary of evil, of scheming for
power and shedding the blood of men as though they were sheep! I am no
better than Berild was. I, too, have lived a long time, and my hands
are not clean. But perhaps, by what you helped me do, I have made up a
little for my sins."

She paused, her thoughts turned darkly inward, and it was strange to
see the shadow of age touching her sweet young face. Then she said,
very slowly, like an old, old woman speaking,

"I am weary of living. No matter where I go, I am a stranger. You can
understand that, though not so well as I. There is an end to pleasure,
and after that only loneliness is left.

"I have remembered that I was human once. That is why I set myself
against their plan of empire. After all these ages I have come round
full circle to the starting point, and things seem to me now as they
seemed then, before I was tempted by the Sending-on of Minds.

"It is a wicked thing!" she cried suddenly. "Against nature and the
gods, and it has never brought anything but evil!"

She caught up the rod and held it in her hands.

"This is the last," she said. "Cities die, and nations perish, and
material things, even such as these, are destroyed. One by one the
Twice-Born have perished also, through accident or swift disease or
murder, as Berild would have slain Delgaun. Now only this, and I, are
left."

       *       *       *       *       *

Quite suddenly, she flung the rod against the coral, and it broke in a
cloudy flame and a tinkling of crystal shards. Then, one by one, she
broke the crowns.

She stood still for a long moment. Then she whispered, "Now only I am
left."

Again there was silence, and Stark was shaken by the magnitude of the
thing that she had done. Her slim girl's body somehow took on the
stature of a goddess.

After a while he went to her and said awkwardly, "I have not thanked
you, Fianna. You brought me here, you saved me...."

"Kiss me once, then," she answered, and raised her lips to his. "For I
love you, Eric John Stark--and that is the pity of it. Because I am not
for you, nor for any man."

He kissed her, very tenderly, and there was the bitter taste of tears
on her soft lips.

"Now come," she whispered, and took his hand.

She led him back through the labyrinth, into the palace, and then out
again into the streets of Sinharat. Stark saw that it was sunset, and
that the city was deserted. The tribes of Kesh and Shun had broken camp
and gone.

There was a beast ready for him, supplied with food and water. Fianna
asked him where he wished to go, and pointed the way to Tarak.

"And you?" he asked. "Where will you go, little one?"

"I have not thought." She lifted her head, and the wind played with her
dark hair. She did not smile, and yet suddenly Stark knew that she was
happy.

"I am free of a great burden," she whispered. "I shall stay here for a
while, and think, and after that I shall know what to do. But whatever
it is there will be no evil in it, and in the end I shall rest."

He mounted, and she looked up at him, with a look that wrung his heart
although it was not sad.

"Go now," she said, "and the gods go with you."

"And with you." He bent and kissed her once again, and then rode away,
down to the coral cliffs.

Far out on the desert he turned and looked back, once, at the white
towers of Sinharat rising against the larger moon.





End of Project Gutenberg's Queen of the Martian Catacombs, by Leigh Brackett

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK QUEEN OF THE MARTIAN CATACOMBS ***

***** This file should be named 63956.txt or 63956.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/9/5/63956/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
