ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Timeless Ones, by Frank Belknap Long

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: The Timeless Ones

Author: Frank Belknap Long

Release Date: December 05, 2020 [EBook #63967]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TIMELESS ONES ***




                           The TIMELESS ONES

                         By FRANK BELKNAP LONG

               _It was a peaceful world, a green world,
               where bright blossoms swayed beneath two
             golden suns. Why did the visitors from Earth
                 sit in their rocket-ship--terrified?_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories July 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"There will be a great many changes, Ned," Cynthia Jackson said. She
stared out the viewport at the little green world which the contact
rocket _Star Mist_ was swiftly approaching on warp-drive.

Her husband co-pilot nodded, remembering Clifton and Helen Sweeney,
and the Sweeney youngsters. Remembering with a smile Tommy Sweeney's
kite-flying antics, his freckles and mischievous eyes--a tow-headed kid
of ten with an Irish sense of humor, sturdily planted in a field of
alien corn five thousand light years from Earth.

Sowing and reaping and bringing in the sheaves, in the blue light
of a great double sun, his dreams as vibrant with promise as the
interstellar warp-drive which, a century ago, had brought the first
prospect ship from Earth to the stars.

He'd be a man grown now, as sturdy as his dad. You could almost take
that for granted. And his sister would be a willowy girl with clear
blue eyes, and she'd come out of a white plastic cottage with the
buoyancy of twenty summers in her carriage and smile.

They'd be farmers still. You couldn't change the Sweeneys in a million
years, couldn't wean them away from the good earth.

It was funny, but he couldn't even visualize the Sweeneys without
thinking of a little sleepy town, the kind of town he'd left himself as
a kid to strike out across the great curve of the universe. Dry dust
of Kansas and the Dakotas that would still be blowing after a thousand
years!

"They've had time to build a town, Ned!" Cynthia said. "A really fine
town with broad streets and modern, dust-proof buildings!"

Ned Jackson awoke from his reverie with a wry start. He nodded again,
remembering the many other colonists and the equipment which had been
shipped to the little green world across the years. Plastic materials
to build houses and schools and roadways, educational materials to
build eager young minds.

Every ten years a contact rocket went out from Earth by interstellar
warp-drive to make a routine check. The trip was a long one--eight
months--but the Central Colonization Bureau had to make sure that
anarchy did not take the place of law on worlds where teeming jungles
encouraged the free exercise of man's best qualities--and his worst.

From end to end of the Galaxy, on large planets and small, progress had
to be measured in terms of the greatest good for the greatest number.
There could be no other yardstick, for when man ceased to be a social
animal his star-conquering genius shriveled to the vanishing point.

"The friends we made here were very special, Ned," Cynthia said.
"I guess people who dare greatly have to be a bit keener than the
stay-at-homes, a bit more eager and alive. But the Sweeneys had such a
tremendous zest for living--"

"I know," Ned said.

"They were wonderful--generous and kind. It will be good to see them
again. Good to--" Cynthia laughed. "I don't know why, but I was about
to say: 'Good to be home.'"

Ned thought he knew why.

They'd made their first flight for the Bureau exactly ten years before.
It had been a combined "official business" and honeymoon flight, and
almost the whole of it had been spent on the little green world.

Did not the queen bee and her consort, flying high above the hive on
a night of perfumed darkness, remember best what was bliss to recall,
the shifting lights and shadows and honey-scented murmurings of their
nuptial trance?

Would not the brightest, furthest star be "home" to the star-beguiled?

       *       *       *       *       *

The rocket-ship was out of subspace now and traveling on its murmuring
overdrive. It was well within sight of green valleys and purple-rimmed
hills.

The planet had grown from a tiny dot to a shining silver sphere
swimming in misty radiance; for a moment it had wavered against the
brightly burning stars, caught in a web of darkness--

Then, swiftly, had exploded into a close, familiar world, as beautiful
as a flower opening snowy petals to the dawn.

It was a simple matter to bring the rocket down. The valley seemed to
sweep up toward them, and gravity jets took over in automatic sequence.
There was a gentle hiss of air as the _Star Mist_ settled to rest on
hard-packed soil, a scant fifty yards from a blue and vermillion flower
garden.

Through a dancing blue haze a dwelling loomed, white and serene in the
rosy flush of evening.

Cynthia looked at her husband, her eyes wide with surmise.

"Just shows how close you can come when you follow dial readings!" Ned
said. "The first lean-to shack stood just about here. I remember the
slope of the soil--"

Cynthia's eyes grew warm and eager. "Ned, I'm glad--it's no fun
searching for old friends with your heart in your throat! We'll step
right up and surprise them!"

When they emerged from the ship the perfume of flowers mingled with the
richer scent of freshly-turned earth, bringing back memories of their
earlier visit.

There had been no flower garden then, but the soil had possessed the
same April shower freshness.

"I must look like a fright!" Cynthia said. "You didn't give me time to
powder my nose!"

They were within five yards of the dwelling when a door opened and a
child of ten or twelve emerged. She was blue-eyed, golden-haired, and
she stood for a moment blinking in the evening light, her hair whipped
by the wind.

"Mary Sweeney!" Cynthia exclaimed, catching hold of Ned's arm. Then, in
a stunned whisper: "Oh, but it can't be! She'd be a grown woman!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The child straightened at the sound of the voice, looking about. She
saw Ned and Cynthia, and blank amazement came into her eyes. Then she
gave a little glad cry, and ran toward them, her arms reaching out in
welcome.

"You've come back!" she exclaimed. "Mom and dad thought it would be a
long time. But I knew you'd come soon! I knew! I was sure!"

Nowhere any sign that this was not the child they had known ten years
before! Her voice, the peaches-and-cream color that flooded her cheeks,
the way her hair clung in little ringlets to her temples, all struck
memory chords from long ago.

And now she was beckoning them into the dwelling, having moved a little
away from them. She was balancing herself in elfin lightness on one
toe, and smiling in warm gratefulness, the sun all blue and gold behind
her.

She had always seemed an elfin and mischievous child.

"What can it mean, Ned?"

White-lipped, Ned shook his head. "I--I don't know! We'd better go
inside!"

Helen Sweeney, her white-streaked auburn hair damp with steam vapor,
sent a frying pan crashing to the floor as she turned from the stove
with a startled cry.

"Ned! Cynthia! Why, land sakes, it seems only yesterday--"

Ned had a good look at her face. The eyes were the same, good-humored
and kindly and wise; and if she had been forty a decade before she
seemed now to be forcing herself back into an earlier instant of
time--the very evening of that last well-remembered birthday party,
with the candles all bright and gleaming, and the children refusing to
admit that she could ever be middle-aged.

Old Clifton came in from his workshop out in back. He'd been whittling
away at a rocket-ship model, and he still held it firmly in the crook
of his arm, his eyes puckered in dust bowl grief. Like most men of the
soil, Clifton had difficulty with his whittling when he turned his
skill to rocketships.

The grief vanished when he saw Ned and Cynthia. Pure delight took hold
of him, bringing a quick smile of welcome to his lips.

"Back so soon? Seems only yesterday you folks went away!"

"It was ten years ago!" Ned said, his throat strangely dry.

Clifton looked at him and shook his head. "Ten years, Ned? Surely
you're joking!"

"It was a good many years, Clifton," Helen Sweeney said quickly. "You
must forgive us, Ned, Cynthia. Time just doesn't seem to matter when
you're busy building for the future. Time goes fast, like a great ship
at sea, its sails ballooning out with a wind that keeps carrying it
faster and faster into the sunrise."

"There are no ships here," Clifton said, chuckling. "Helen's
fancy-wedded to Earth, but she's forgetting the last sailing ship
rotted away a hundred years before she was born. It's a good thought
though.

"Don't know what put a sailing ship in Helen's head, but I guess folks
who were born on Earth have a right to hark back a bit. It'll be
different with Tom and Mary."

"Where's Tommy?" Ned asked.

"Out shucking corn!" Clifton's voice was vibrant with sudden pride.
"He's still the same reckless young lad. He'd risk his neck to bring in
a full harvest. I keep warning him, but he goes right on worrying his
mother.

"Fact is, he hasn't changed at all. No more than we have."

So they knew! Cynthia looked at Ned, an unspoken question in her eyes.
How could they accept the tremendousness of not changing without
realizing that any arrest of the aging process must alter their daily
lives in a thousand intangible ways?

How could they build for the future--when their children would never
grow up?

It was Ned who discovered the mind block.

Not only had the Sweeneys ceased to age physically--they lacked a
normal time sense. If you reminded them of the passing years their
minds cleared momentarily, and they could think back.

But that link with the past had no staying power. It was like punching
pillows to get them to remember. They lived in the present, well
content to accept the world about them on a day-to-day basis, warmed by
the bright flame of their children growing up--

But their children weren't growing up--they had only the illusion of
change, the illusion of planning for their future; and that illusion
was terribly real to them--unless jolted by a question:

"How's Tommy?"

"Why, Tommy hasn't changed at all--"

A puzzled frown. A moment's honest facing of the truth, an old memory
stirring into life. Then the mind block closing in, clamping down.

"Ned, Cynthia, you'll stay for dinner?"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was late and growing cold, and the stars had appeared in the sky. In
the rocket-ship Ned sat facing his wife.

"That house was never built by human hands!" he said, a cold prickling
at the base of his scalp. He had suffered from the prickling off and on
for a full hour. He could still taste the strong coffee he'd downed at
a gulp before rising in haste at the end of an uneasy meal.

He was sorry now they'd returned to the ship without waiting to say
"hello" to Tommy, fresh from his harvesting chores. Tommy was the
brightest member of the family. Perhaps Tommy knew more than the
others--or could remember better.

"Not built by human hands! But that's insane, Ned." Cynthia's face,
shadowed from below by the cold light of the instrument board, was
harsh with concern. "The materials came from Earth."

"They did," Ned acknowledged. "Grade A plastics--the best. And a good
engineer can build almost anything with malleable plastics. But not a
house without seams!"

"Without--seams?"

"Joints, connections, little rough places," Ned elaborated. "Inside
and out that house was smooth, all of a piece. Like a burst of frozen
energy. Like--oh, you know what I mean! Surely you must have noticed
it!"

"There were other colonists," Cynthia said. "Some of them were
engineers. They've had time to work out new constructive techniques."

"They've had time to disappear. Why did the Sweeneys act so funny when
I asked them about the other colonists? Why did Clifton refuse to look
at me? Why did I have to drag the answer out of him? 'Oh, we spread
out. Enough land here for all of us--' Does that ring true to you?"

"They didn't want us to stay together!" Tommy Sweeney said.

Ned leapt up with a startled cry. Cynthia swayed, her eyes widening in
stark disbelief.

Tommy Sweeney walked smiling into the compartment, his shoulders
squared. He came through the pilot-room wall in a blaze of light, and
stood between Ned and Helen, his lips quivering in boyish earnestness.

"Take any school," Tommy said. "Some of the pupils are bright. Some are
just good students who work hard at their homework. Some are stupid and
dull. If you let them stay together the bright ones, the really bright
ones, get held back."

Tommy seemed suddenly to realize he was seeing Ned and Cynthia for the
first time in ten years. His good friends, Ned and Cynthia. A Cynthia
who was as beautiful as ever, though deathly pale now, and a Ned who
was just a little older and grayer.

A broad grin overspread his face. "I knew you'd come back!" he said.

"You--you came through a solid metal wall!" Ned said, feeling as though
an earthquake had taken place inside of him.

"It's easy when you know how!" Tommy said.

"Who taught you how?" Cynthia asked, in a voice so emotional Ned forgot
his own horror in concern for her sanity. "Who taught you, Tommy?"

"The Green People!" Tommy said.

"The Green--People?"

"They live in the forest," Tommy said. "They come out at night and
dance around the house. They hold hands and dance and sing. Then they
talk to us. To mom, dad and sis--but mostly to me. They taught me how
to play, to really have fun."

"Did they teach you how to change the atoms of your body so that you
could pass through a solid metal wall?" Ned asked, framing the question
very carefully.

"Shucks, it was nothing like that!" Tommy said. "They just told me that
if I forgot about walls I could go anywhere."

"And you believed them!"

Suddenly Cynthia was laughing. Her laughter rang out wild and
uncontrollable in the pilot-room.

"He believed them, Ned! He believed them!"

Ned went up to her and took her by the shoulders and shook her.

Tommy looked shamefaced. He shuffled his feet, ill at ease in the
presence of adult hysteria.

"I've got to go now!" he stammered. "Mom will be awful mad if I'm late
for dinner again."

"You _are_ late, Tommy!" Cynthia said. "The joke's on you. We just had
dinner with your parents in a house Ned claims wasn't built by human
hands."

She laughed wildly. "Your parents are sensible people, though. They
didn't even try to walk through the kitchen wall."

"They could if they tried hard enough," Tommy said. "Someday they will."

Tommy looked almost apologetic. "I can't stay any longer. I saw your
ship, and wanted to see if you really had come back. I thought it
might be someone else. I'm sure glad it's you."

Tommy turned abruptly and walked straight out of the pilot-room, his
small body lighting up the wall until he vanished.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cynthia stared at her husband, her eyes dark with a questioning horror.

"The Green People," Ned said. "Think, Cynthia. Does the name mean
anything to you?"

Cynthia shook her head, her lips shaping a soundless _No_.

Ned sat down slowly, rubbing his jaw. "I just thought you might know
something about Druidism, and what the strange rites of that mysterious
cult meant to the ancient inhabitants of Gaul and the British Isles.
According to the Roman historian Pliny, the Druids built stone houses
for their pupils and called themselves the Green People."

Starlight from the viewport illuminated Ned's pale face. He paused,
then said: "The Druids were soothsayers and sorcerers who disappeared
from history at the time of the Roman conquest. It was widely believed
they had the power of conferring eternal youth. They taught that time
was an illusion, space the shadow of a dream."

His eyes were grim with speculation. "The Druids were teachers almost
in the modern sense. Pliny records that they had a passion for
teaching, and thought of their worshippers as pupils, as children with
much to learn. Instruction in physical science formed the cornerstone
of the Druidic cult."

Cynthia leaned forward, her face strained and intense as he went on.

"The Romans hated and feared them. There was a terrible, bloody battle
and the Druids no longer danced in their groves of oak, in slow
procession to a weird dirge-like chanting. They vanished from Earth and
almost from the memory of man."

Ned took a deep breath.

"Man fears the unknown, and knowledge is a source of danger. Maybe the
Druids were never really native to Earth. What if this were their home
planet--"

"Ned, you can't really believe--"

"Listen!" Ned said.

The sound was clearly audible through the thin walls of the
rocket-ship. It was a steady, dull droning--an eerie, terrifying sound.

Ned got up and walked to the viewport. He stared out--

He could see the Sweeney's dwelling clearly. It was bathed in an
unearthly green light, and around it in a circle robed figures moved
through shadows the color of blood. Around and around in ever widening
circles, their tall gaunt bodies strangely bent.

For a full minute he stared out. When his wife joined him he stretched
out a hand and let it rest lightly on her shoulder.

"Perhaps we wouldn't be far wrong if we thought of the Sweeneys as
catalysts!" he said.

Cynthia stood very straight and quiet, a great fear growing in her.

"Catalysts, Ned?"

"It's just a wild guess, of course. I can't even tell you what made me
think of it. But it does have a certain relevancy. In chemistry, as you
know, a catalytic agent is a substance which promotes chemical action,
but is _in itself unchanged_."

"Well?"

"Why do men and women who surrender themselves to sorcery remain, in
legend, eternally young? Young, unchanging. It's a belief as old as
prehistory and all the ages since. Only in the Middle Ages were witches
pictured as shrunken, hideous old women. The ancient world pictured
witches as eternally youthful, unaging."

A long pause, and then Ned said: "As unaging as the forests of oak
where they served as human catalysts for the Druids before the Druids
left Earth forever?"

He suddenly seemed to be thinking aloud rather than addressing his wife.

"Well--and why not? The Druids must change, for change is the first
law of life. But perhaps they can only find complete fulfillment, can
only grow in wisdom and strength, by using human beings as little hard
grains of chemical substance which must remain forever bright and
shining.

"Human catalysts, imprisoned in a horrible little test tube of a house.
If human beings aged and changed they would cease to be catalysts.
They would become valueless to the Druids. And when the Romans
discovered the truth--"

Agreement was clearly in Cynthia's eyes. She moved closer to the
viewport, her face pale.

"Fear, and a merciless hatred," Ned said. "Pursuing the Druids, driving
them from Earth. And dim, fearful legends remaining of a dark magic
older than the human race."

"Ned, they've stopped dancing!" Cynthia's voice rang out sharply in the
silence. "They're coming toward the ship!"

[Illustration: "_Ned, they've stopped dancing ... they're coming toward
the ship!_"]

"I know," Ned said.

"But we don't know what they're planning to do!" Cynthia's voice rose.
"We've got to get out!"

"Steady," Ned said, turning. "If we take off at peak acceleration I
just can't picture them stopping us!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ned, the Sweeneys may be happier than we know," Cynthia said, hours
later. They were deep in subspace, a hundred light years from the
little green world; and, in the warm security of the pilot-room, its
menacing shadows seemed immeasurably remote.

"Happy?" Ned laughed harshly. "Kids who'll never grow up. Adults cut
off from all further growth. The same today, tomorrow and forever."

"Their minds may change," Cynthia said. "Their minds may grow, Ned.
Tommy said that bright pupils could go far."

"As catalysts, caught in a ghastly trap."

"How can you be so sure, Ned? A wild guess, you called it. How do you
know the Druids and the Sweeneys don't learn from one another? Perhaps
they grow wise together, in a wonderful bright sharing of knowledge and
happiness that's like nothing we can imagine."

Ned looked at his wife. "Why say a thing like that? Why even think of
it?"

"Pandora, I guess."

"What do you mean?"

"I'm a woman and the Pandora complex is pretty basic, darling. I'd be
tempted to go back and throw open the box."

"Something pretty black and horrible would come out," Ned said sharply.
"You can take my word for that. I hope you're not forgetting that
Pandora was the first woman chosen by Zeus to bring complete ruin on
the human race."

"She didn't quite succeed. And how can we know for sure, Ned? If what
you say is true, if the Druids were really driven from Earth, we
haven't done so well since. Wars and madness for two thousand years.
Destruction and cruelty and death."

"All you have to do is prove we'd be better off if the Druids had
stayed," Ned said.

"Darling, think. If people grew wiser all the time, if they never aged,
would they want to murder one another?"

"Now see here--"

Cynthia smiled. "Think of having our own beautiful little home forever,
in a fragrant woody patch, with shining kitchen utensils on the wall.
Think of being spared all the miseries of old age and poverty and
sickness and death.

"Think of having neighbors like the Sweeneys to grow young with, to
grow wise and young with, day by splendid day until the end of time."

There was a long silence, and then Cynthia said: "I'd trust them, Ned.
The Druids, I mean. I'd take the chance. What have we to lose that's
really great, that can hold a candle to what the Sweeneys have?"

"You can go anywhere if you just remember how close you are to where
you want to be!" Tommy Sweeney said, coming through the pilot-room
wall in a blaze of light. He grinned. "I asked mom and dad to try real
hard this time and here they are!"

All of the Sweeneys came into the pilot-room as Tommy spoke, their
faces incredibly radiant.

"I never really believed Tommy until this minute!" Clifton Sweeney
said. "If you just forget about walls you're where you want to be!"

"Sure you are!" Tommy said. "It's as easy as skinning a chipmunk."

"Ned, Cynthia," Helen Sweeney said. "Come back!"

Tommy's sister simply smiled, a mischievous elfin smile which seemed
to mock the vast loneliness of space. It was as if some wizard game,
played by laughing children and wise forest creatures through long
golden afternoons, had become a universe-spanning web, embracing
everything in its path in a warm and radiant way.

Cynthia looked at Dan. "Well, darling?"

"Yes," Ned said, with quick decision. "We'll go back!"

       *       *       *       *       *

_And at that moment, in the forest deep and dark, the Druids built
another house. It was designed to appeal to a man and a woman who
had traveled far and grown weary of human cruelty and death. It
was designed for gracious living; but whether the Druids, in their
inscrutable wisdom, wished mankind well or ill, who could say?_

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TIMELESS ONES ***

***** This file should be named 63967-0.txt or 63967-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/9/6/63967/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

