ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Last Laugh, by Bryce Walton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: The Last Laugh

Author: Bryce Walton

Release Date: December 08, 2020 [EBook #63986]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LAST LAUGH ***




                            The LAST LAUGH

                            by BRYCE WALTON

             _The visitor from Mars was a first-rate howl.
             Earthmen reckoned he was endowed with all the
          qualities of all the greatest clowns in the history
           of Buffoonery. Often though, the distance between
            humor and terror can be too short to be funny._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Planet Stories November 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The scarred rocket rolled down street canyons away from United Nations
City, wheeled toward Madison Square Garden between jam-packed,
crazily-cheering millions of citizens from every nation on Earth.

Confetti snow drifted in colorful storm, wild faces shone through
drifts of spiraling streamers. Signs floated everywhere. Neon
signs blinked off and on. Signs floated from balloons across the
kleig-lighted sky. Welcome hero signs. And even signs shouting:

                        WELCOME TO EARTH--ZEKE!

They spelled the name wrong, Johnson thought with some dismay. But
that's the way it sounded, he decided, when I radioed in ahead that
there was a Martian with us.

Spelled ZEKE, the name scarcely projected the dignity of the name's
sound in Martian language. But, in thinking about it now, Johnson
realized that it was the only way it could be spelled or pronounced in
English.

This seemingly insignificant fact bothered Johnson now. He felt a
growing uneasiness. The Martian was largely his responsibility, he
felt. It had been Johnson who had spent most of the time on the first
visit to Mars with the few Martians left in that one isolated mountain
village, learning their language and ancient, conservative, almost
static culture. Being an anthropologist, among other things, it had
been natural for Johnson to have manifested this particular interest.

Johnson had also been the one to suggest that perhaps Zeke might like
to pay Earth a visit.

Zeke had readily agreed, but now Johnson was beginning to wonder why.
In six months another rocket would go to Mars and Zeke could go home,
but meanwhile--Johnson suddenly began to wonder about the possible
ramifications of a Martian's first visit to Earth.

He had radioed ahead about the Martian but had given no details.
The world awaited its first look at a Martian, the expectation
overshadowing their hero worship of Captain Stromberg, Atomics Engineer
Hinton, and Professor William Johnson--the first successful navigators
of deep space.

Right now, Stromberg and Hinton were straightening their dress uniforms
preparatory to the feting promised when the rocket was wheeled into
Madison Square Garden. UN notables would be there, everyone of any
importance, plus every one who could be jammed into the Garden. The
rocket would be wheeled up to a speaker's platform, the doors would
open and out would step the three heroes and Zeke.

Johnson looked at Zeke now with a new and uneasy appraisal. He slumped
and then as Johnson motioned to him, Zeke gave a series of grotesque
hops. His face, like a monstrous soft rubber mask bought in a novelty
shop, twisted into a series of fantastic grimaces.

Stromberg and Hinton grinned appreciatively. They thought Zeke was
pretty funny. Johnson no longer thought so because he had realized the
cultural significance of Zeke's actions. Johnson gestured for Zeke to
look through the port view plate.

His rubberoid features, which at times suggested a travesty of
something very remotely human, bunched up and then spread in all
directions as though running into yellow putty. "They're welcoming
you to Earth, Zeke. 'Welcome, Zeke,' the signs say. You'll be royally
entertained. You'll be wined and dined as they say. You're probably the
most extraordinary visitor ever seen anywhere."

       *       *       *       *       *

Zeke swung his long, stick-like arms, or appendages, whatever one chose
to call them, in long arcs like pendulums, back and forth and to and
fro. His three eyes spread wider and wider in an expression of such
intense and gigantic astonishment that Stromberg and Hinton bent over
and held their stomachs with uncontrollable laughter.

The flicker of unease in Johnson's stomach flamed a little stronger.
The trouble was that Zeke's culture was so serious, so old and wise
and serious, there seemed to be absolutely no sense of humor in it. At
least none of any human kind that Johnson had been able to discover.

To Zeke, this being an object of humor had no meaning. Zeke could
understand, however, the meaning of ridicule, derision and insults
and sadness in their actual and realistic sense, divorced from the
necessity of contrast that connected these things with laughter, gags,
jokes in the human psychology.

So Johnson had never explained to Zeke that he was being laughed
at, nor what it would mean if he did know he was being an object of
laughter. Somehow now, Johnson wished he hadn't lied, that he hadn't
explained to Zeke about Stromberg's and Hinton's laughter: "Well, Zeke,
that's a kind of appreciation humans express to each other. It means
they accept you. A form of politeness, a social amenity."

Zeke was saying in the peculiar slurred, high-pitched Martian speech.
"It is over-powering, so many of you humans! Even in our most ancient
records there is no account of there ever having been so many of us as
I see of your kind out there!"

"That's only a small percent of the world's population," Johnson said.
He took hold of one of Zeke's boneless, spongy arms. "Come on. We go on
up now to the air-lock doors. In a few minutes we'll be out of here and
you'll be presented to the world."

They were inside the Garden now, the rocket being moved by a giant
crane to a position beside the speakers' platform. A ramp was
connecting the two. The doors started to open and Stromberg and Hinton
stood with stiff, glowing expectancy.

Johnson stood behind them, holding on to Zeke whose eight-foot body
slumped with its own peculiar kind of expectancy. In all his 32 years
Johnson had never been exactly a social animal. Devoted largely to
field work, he had accustomed himself either by choice or necessity or
both to an extraordinary degree of isolation. The two years in space
hadn't bothered him. He was somewhat anxious to see his friends, but
not overly so.

In fact the sight of those countless gaping faces, the packed masses of
humanity, had frightened him a little. It had been so utterly peaceful
out there in space, and on the high, cold plateaus of Mars.

Odd how formidable seemed the prospect of meeting this gigantic social
obligation of facing the whole world. Maybe two years away from Earth
was too long.

He could hear the interminable speeches droning away outside the
opening doors.

Everybody was waiting out there on that platform.

Presidents and envoys from the Big Three nations, and many slightly
less important figures. Everybody who could possibly claim to be
anybody.

"From now on," whispered Hinton, "we live like Kings! A pension for
life. And a hero forever. The dames--"

"Quiet, please," whispered Captain Stromberg.

Hinton dropped back. He nudged Johnson. "Even the thing here, your
friend that walks like a man, will be treated by the world like a
prince."

Johnson squeezed Hinton's arm and Hinton winced. "Watch what you say,
Hinton. It knows some English now."

"You treat it like it's a human being," Hinton said.

Johnson had no answer to that except agreement. Changing Hinton's
attitudes was something else again. Johnson didn't consider the project
quite worth the time and trouble. He shrugged.

"This is it," Johnson warned Zeke. Every time he talked in Martian his
jaw ached. It was quite a feat.

The present speaker's voice like a worn soundtrack was saying:

"... and now, waiting world, here they are...."

"Ready?" Captain Stromberg whispered.

"... the first to make a voyage to another planet! The first visitor
from another world!..."

Their names being called, and then--

"... and our guest from the planet Mars--Zeke!"

Zeke shifted his undulating, boneless length as the four of them
stepped out onto the platform and into the glare of flood lights,
and a sea of smoke and the heat of human bodies. Johnson got the
impression, though he couldn't actually see much of it, of a colossal
ocean of humanity, great tides of flesh held temporarily motionless and
soundless. Microphones slid down. Television and motion picture cameras
moved in and back and in again.

Lawrence Spaulding, President of the United States, flanked by big-wigs
from the United Nations, moved toward the four. Hands came out, gloved
and grasping.

"I--" began the President of the United States. Johnson watched his
lips moving but what he said was buried under the onrushing, rising,
roaring flood of sound.

Johnson was noticing how the others on the platform were gradually
having their attention diverted by the appearance of Zeke. His hands
were suddenly moist, and his stomach felt hollow. All of them were
beginning to grin. It was universal--he should have known--whenever any
human being saw Zeke--laughter.

He didn't know why, exactly, but he decided this was bad, very bad.
Even the Russian Ambassador was grinning as Zeke grimaced at the
strangeness about him.

As long as Zeke didn't know he excited laughter primarily from
everyone, things might go along all right. But that deceptive situation
couldn't last long. And trying to make it last for six months was no
solution. Johnson's throat felt dry.

Maybe there was no solution. Maybe it was just a devil of a
blunder--period! Several scientists spoke at length after the cheering
died down enough. Stromberg and Hinton were introduced. They talked
at length. Johnson was introduced. He was asked to talk about the
surprising discovery of intelligent life on Mars, and about Zeke.

He didn't bother to say much because he knew that they weren't really
listening. He watched Zeke. The Martian was restless. He made faces at
Johnson. He was utterly alone amidst thousands of people, a world full
of human beings, Johnson thought. I'm his only point of contact with
any living thing, and that is most inadequate. How does he really feel?
Desperate probably. Confused. Probably very lonely. And nothing that he
does or says will be interpreted realistically--

He bowed, stepped back to where Zeke was amidst a storm of applause.
Now every eye was focused on Zeke. Zeke whispered to Johnson in a
raspy, high-pitched voice that only added to his humorous appeal
because of contrast due to his giant and grotesque body. "I am having
difficulty breathing."

"Hold on a while," Johnson said, managing to smile at everybody. "I
have a big apartment we can go to, and no one will bother us there. You
can rest. It's air-conditioned. It'll be cooler there too."

       *       *       *       *       *

Johnson prayed. The thing had to get over with fast. He felt afraid for
Zeke now. The novelty, the magnitude of the thing was over. They had to
get out of here.

His uneasiness had been growing. Those on the speakers' platform were
grinning more widely at Zeke's antics. The uneasiness was growing into
a kind of fear. And then he heard someone introducing Zeke.

"Oh no," Johnson whispered. "Wait a minute--he's not up to this ... not
now...."

"What is the trouble?" Zeke asked.

The United Nations Secretary was introducing Zeke. Something about
inter-world friendship ... the beginning of an inter-world union that
would spread to the stars....

Someone was saying in Johnson's ear, "Go ahead. You act as
interpreter...."

"What is everyone looking at me for?" Zeke asked.

"You are to make a speech like the rest of us," Johnson whispered
dryly. "Just say something ... anything ... something short. They
won't know what you're saying anyway. Just a gesture--"

To Zeke everything was deadly serious. A long historical background had
made the Martians that way. They were old. "About how much I want to
learn about you here on Earth? How I will enjoy my stay here? How glad
I am that the Earth and Mars are in contact and are friends?"

"Yes, yes, anything. Just a formality anyway."

"But I think that I am somewhat afraid," Zeke said. "Things I am not
accustomed to. Too many people. Too much noise and confusion. And the
air. I cannot seem to breathe properly."

The air was thinner on Mars, Johnson thought as he stepped toward the
microphones again, in front of television eyes. But it's the air here
too--the people--the suppression--

Zeke was there standing beside him. Johnson stepped aside. Zeke stood
there in his place. Johnson's knees got weak. He felt the sweat running
down his face then, and the cold shivery feeling as though he'd
suddenly contracted a high fever. The laughter was starting. It was
starting around the platform as the big spotlights caught Zeke full,
and it spread backward and upward, growing and expanding.

Zeke, in his alien way talked, and he gestured with his entire body as
he talked sincerely, with deep feeling, about how he felt about this
first visit to Earth. The laughter rose higher and more voluminous
until Johnson's body began to quiver as though from some physical
assault. The trouble was a complete misunderstanding of Zeke, his
grotesqueness, the fact that no one had any idea what he was really
saying. What his gestures meant. All that--and whatever it was in human
beings that made them laugh.

Zeke leaned toward Johnson, yelled in his ear. "Look, they are all
doing it now."

"Yes," Johnson managed to scream. "They like you. They're all stirred
up with excitement. Think nothing of it. They're expressing their
extreme excitement and appreciation--"

The twistings of Zeke's body, his facial distortions as he sought
to express himself in the best and most intelligible manner, grew
more intense. Laughter became a sweeping thunder. No one could hear
Johnson's interpretation. He stopped interpreting.

Zeke came back away from the cameras and microphones. No one but
Johnson realized his growing panic. Johnson said to someone, "The air's
bad for the Martian here. I'm taking him back inside the rocket. You
say something."

The man who happened to be a highly important figure in the United
Nations Supreme Court, an Englishman named Gordon Humphreys, nodded.
He was grinning, yet Johnson seemed to see a glint of understanding in
Humphreys' eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rocket held out most of the thunder. Zeke sat in the corner. His
eyes were frightened, confused. "They certainly do appreciate me a
great deal, do they not."

"Yes," whispered Johnson. "They certainly do."

"I do not understand. But it would seem that all of this is not being
treated with due seriousness."

Johnson said, "Don't try to figure us out down here, not this time. We
discussed that, Zeke. Society and the individual here is too complex.
Specialists here, psychologists, trying to figure that out about
themselves are running into difficulty. Just take it as easy as you can
and don't get too curious. We'll get you out somewhere where you won't
be bothered much, and you can study at your leisure. Remember, you only
have six months of this, then you'll be on your way home to Mars."

Zeke said, "Yes. Martian culture must have been complex like this once,
but that was very long ago. It seems to frighten me a bit. This--what
you call laughter. There seems no analogy for it in my own language or
culture. Why is it directed in such volume specifically at me? I mean
as a sign of appreciation and like, why is so little of it going on
between two or more of your own kind? I do not--"

"You know the meaning of tragedy, sadness, bereavement. We have an
opposite. Laughter. You make people very happy, Zeke. You make them
enjoy themselves very much."

Zeke thought about this.

Johnson forced a laugh. "You see you shouldn't try to figure it out!
Just make your visit here as enjoyable as possible. It won't be long
before you'll be on your way back home--"

"All right," Zeke said. "I want to study here. I want to take back to
Mars an understanding of humans."

"If you take that back you'll take back more than anyone I ever heard
of has to give," muttered Johnson.

The immediately subsequent events were too incredible and fast-paced
for Johnson to cope with with any degree of effectiveness. With Zeke,
he was swirled away in a mad maelstrom of activity. He went with Zeke
on a crazy toboggan ride that gained momentum all the way toward an end
Johnson was horrified to imagine.

The newspapers and television and news-reel cameras started the
toboggan going. They started the whole world laughing at Zeke. It was
too big a novelty to be ignored by American advertisers, or by any
other agencies standing to profit from the greatest novelty in history.
Zeke seemed to have all the qualities of all the greatest clowns in the
history of clowndom, plus unique characteristics of his own which in
turn seemed to bring out something else in the misty realms of human
psychology where so much was suspected but of which so little was known.

Johnson tried to object but he couldn't without revealing the truth to
Zeke. Besides, Zeke wanted to please. He wanted to make people like him
and his kind. He wanted humans and Martians always to get along, so he
went along with compliancy on the crazy ride.

They insisted that Johnson get a cut of the fabulous profits
accruing from Zeke's endorsements, his television, radio, and stage
performances. Johnson refused. The money went to charity. He explained
that to Zeke. That made Zeke feel good for a while. He appeared at
benefit performances. Everywhere, everyone was laughing louder and
louder. Johnson somehow kept Zeke convinced that his lectures were
received in the serious regard Zeke intended ... that the laughter was
only appreciation and so forth.

During a tour, Johnson stopped off in Chicago to see a friend. A
clinical psychologist, Philip Billington. Johnson had lost weight. His
nerves were frayed.

Philip's study was comfortable. And there were cool drinks and dim
light, and Johnson sat there like a man paroled another day from a
death chamber. Philip, a quiet little man with a rather prominent nose
and soft eyes, regarded Johnson quietly for a while.

Finally Johnson said, "Physically I'm not built for it. Martians only
sleep six hours out of every three weeks of Earth time. I have to keep
up with him, try to keep him from being completely sucked up by--"

"How are you helping him?"

Johnson explained. "He doesn't know what laughter is. I mean what it is
in his case as far as his audiences are concerned. I'm not sure what it
is myself. Except that it's pretty horrible!"

"The whole thing's rather horrible," Billington agreed. "Are you doing
anything to get your Martian out of all this madness? I'll admit that
it could result in something tragic. If you've been keeping him in
ignorance--"

"What else could I do? What if he found out he's regarded as a clown,
a buffoon, a ludicrous, sham-clumsy sort of animal? I've written out a
full report to the United Nations, and I've contacted James Hatcher, a
UN lawyer friend of mine and he's working on it. So far there's been no
results from either source. I say there must be some legal angles."

"Maybe there is," Billington mused. "But I'm just a psychologist. You
say Zeke has no sense of humor? Rather an abstract term. Even to us,
humans and psychologists alike, the anatomy of humor is pretty complex,
contradictory, confusing and inconsistent."

"But why do they go so insanely hysterical with laughter at Zeke?"

"Why? There's a question all right, Bill. It's contrast in humorous
situations, such as this one, that sometimes makes it horrible. In
this case it's the fact that people are laughing at what we know is
something deadly serious, which only makes it more grotesque. Add
to this the vast cultural differences, the unbridgeable gap, the
psychological isolation, and you have that thin line between farce and
tragedy--"

"There's never been anything like this though," Johnson moaned. "It's
all out of line. Here we have the first visitor from another planet.
An important, dignified individual, and the world regards him as a
buffoon! Something's got to be done!"

"I agree. But what?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Philip looked at the ceiling, then back at Johnson. "Humor. What are
its basic elements? Surprise. Aberrancy. Ah, we have that element.
Oddity, singularity, peculiarity, nonconformity in what is supposed to
be a well-ordered world. Also irrationalism, we have that too. A form
of aberrancy. Zeke acts in a manner people regard as foolish, mistaken,
ill-advised ... oddity of character behavior. People like this kind
of humor; it allows him to feel superior. Here we find the element
of sadism in humor, you see. Humor can be horrible in retrospect, or
looking at it from a distance. Kinds of humor change. They used to
write jokes about burning witches alive. Cripples and insane people
used to be funny."

"All right," Johnson said. "But there's something more here."

"Yes. Yes, there is. I think I have it, some of it anyway. There's
a connection between terror and humor. Build up a suspense, an
anticipation of terror, then present something harmless, and you get
a tremendous relief through laughter. People have been conditioned
to fear the alien, particularly the alien from outer space, and
particularly the bogey-man Martian who has been popularized in fiction
for a long time. Maybe the whole world's reacting to Zeke as a kind
of anticlimax. A long build-up to expect some fearsome monster, maybe
with super weapons capable of wiping out the Earth in one fell swoop of
deadly rays, and then they get Zeke!

"And add to that the other free-floating anxieties people suffer in a
too-complex society, sourceless fears they don't even realize exist.
They project all that into the surprise twist too. And we get a world
practically prostrated with laughter because they expect a monster and
get the most, to them at least, exaggerated kind of loping, rubberoid,
harmless clown."

"But a clinical diagnosis doesn't help Zeke any."

"No. No, it doesn't. Not now anyway. It might--"

"The UN should do something. America's exploiting Zeke for commercial
purposes primarily. Zeke isn't a guest of the United States. He's from
another planet. He's really visiting the whole world. No one nation--"

Billington nodded. "I hope something happens. I hate to see you in such
a state, Bill. Pretty soon, if you don't snap out of this and find some
solution, you'll end up coming to me for treatment."

Johnson needed treatment when Hollywood decided to make a movie
featuring Zeke. He didn't go to Philip Billington though. He fought
this to the end but the fight was futile. They gave Zeke a good sales
talk, and of course it wasn't Johnson's position to tell Zeke what,
or what not, to do. He had trapped himself nicely so that he couldn't
explain to Zeke the real reasons for his objections.

The movie was called MARS INVADES THE EARTH. They told Zeke it would be
a semi-documentary; that it would assure good relations between Earth
and Mars and acquaint the whole world with Martian culture.

There was a special preview showing in the United Nations Cultural
Building in United Nations City. Johnson was there, waiting in the
lobby for the fiasco to end. He had seen the first part of it but had
been unable to stomach the rest. He paced nervously back and forth
across the lush carpet wondering how Zeke was taking it. It wasn't at
all what they had led Zeke to believe it was. It was pure fiction in
which a Martian monster invaded the Earth with a weapon capable of
blowing the world into component atoms, but the Martian was so funny he
conquered the Earth with laughter.

Johnson could hear the UN Officials invited to the showing laughing
uproariously in there. What--what would Zeke be thinking now?

He stopped pacing. Zeke was in the lobby with him, and the picture
wasn't nearly over. Zeke's whole body stood there very stiffly.
Johnson felt sick.

"You have been lying to me," Zeke said. His face twisted with that odd
rubber-mask plasticity that seemed to be so funny.

"No, Zeke, you've got to let me explain."

"All this time you have never told me the truth about this laughter.
Everybody thinks that I am funny. They look upon me as something
ridiculous."

"I--"

"They lied to me also. This picture is not what they said it would be.
I heard them talking in there. They did not know I was sitting there by
them in the dark. I found out why all this laughter should be always
directed at me! Why at me? Why always at me? I have found out!"

"Zeke--!"

"What is this humor of yours? What is so funny that gives you
satisfaction in freaks and fools? In the misfortunes of others? You
think we Martians do not know what this laughter really means? Maybe
we know. I guess it is just that we knew a long time back and have
forgotten it. Now I know what it is and what it means."

       *       *       *       *       *

Johnson was trying to say something. It didn't make any difference now.
Laughter came from inside the big auditorium. Zeke's huge ungainly
body loped toward the exit. He turned. "I do not want to see or talk
to you or to any other human beings. I do not like to see or talk to
any of you any more. I will go to your place, if you will permit me
to do so, and there I will seclude myself until your next rocket goes
back to Mars. I do not want any one to come out there to see or to talk
with me. I do not want to be in any more television shows or radio
broadcasts or moving pictures."

"All right!" Johnson yelled above the laughter. "But let me take you to
my apartment. How you going to get there? You can't speak English."

The guard stood in front of the exit. He turned and grinned up at Zeke.
He began to laugh as Zeke swung back and forth, wanting out. Zeke made
gestures and spoke. "I wish to go outside. Would you be so kind as to
step out of the doorway, please?"

The guard had no idea what Zeke was saying, nor what his movements
meant. All the guard knew was that Zeke was a Martian bogey turned
clown and he laughed louder. "You will step to one side, please."

Johnson started toward them.

"I wish you would step aside and stop laughing at me," Zeke said.

Johnson started to yell something but he was too late. He knew there
was no malicious intent in Zeke's action, only desperation, confusion,
bewilderment, humility. He pushed the guard out of the way, but his
strength was much greater than Zeke was used to exerting under any such
circumstances.

The guard hurtled ten feet away. Johnson heard the sickening thud
of his head against the wall. Johnson ran over there, saw the open,
staring eyes of the guard, and then he saw Zeke running across the
rain-splattered street through the neon-shining dark. He saw a few
people stop and wonder a moment, then laugh.

Johnson leaned against the wall and closed his eyes before he went
to the public phone booth. He could still hear the laughter from the
auditorium as he called the police.

They figured Johnson would know where Zeke was. They questioned him for
what seemed hours. He had no idea where Zeke would go to hide or where
he would be now. Zeke could speak only a few words of English. No, Zeke
wouldn't harm anybody. Yes, I know he killed the guard, but that was an
accident. A misunderstanding.

No, God no! I don't know where he would go!

Yes, yes, I'll make tape recorded messages to be broadcast to Zeke.
I'll make some television kinescopes too. Maybe Zeke will hear me and
give himself up without any trouble. Play the recordings and show the
kinescopes on every station in the city.

Sure I will. But why don't you send out broadcasts and telecasts to the
people instead of to Zeke? That would be more logical. Tell them not
to be afraid of him. That he wouldn't hurt anybody. Tell them not to
incite any more confusion in Zeke.

I know, I know, somebody hit Zeke with a cane, but he wasn't trying to
attack the old man! You've got everyone scared of him now. A few hours
ago everybody was laughing, and now you've got everyone thinking he's
some kind of horrible monster.

I know ... the woman wheeling the baby. But she was hysterical when she
saw Zeke there on that side street. She screamed and went crazy. But
that isn't Zeke's fault. That's your fault. No! I said I don't know
where he would be hiding now!

You can leave now, Johnson. But stay where we can get in touch with
you at once. You're the only way we can establish any contact with
Zeke--unless of course we have to kill it.

       *       *       *       *       *

So Johnson made the tape recordings and the television kinescopes,
and he sat in a kind of daze in the semi-darkness of the apartment of
Hatcher, a friend of his, looking at his own image speaking Martian to
millions of people, and listened to his voice.

No one knew what he had said on those lengths of tape and on those
kinescopes. He hadn't said what he was supposed to say--not for Zeke to
give himself up. Zeke might not understand that, and he might get shot.
He told Zeke to meet him just outside the UN grounds at the West end
of a public park that had been built to replace a former slum area--to
beautify the area surrounding the UN territory. A high wall flanked the
West end of the park and thick brush and trees were there affording a
good hiding place.

And Johnson would meet Zeke there as soon as he could. Don't do
anything else, if possible, until I can talk with you, Zeke.

The newscasts came on frequently, mostly about Zeke. He was seen first
here and then there.

The city was supposedly gripped in a reign of terror. Kids playing in a
vacant lot near the UN grounds had dug a small cave and had found Zeke
hiding in it. The Martian had made horrible sounds and leaped at them,
the kids said. The kids had thrown rocks at him. They said he looked
funny at first, all covered with dirt, and stumbling around like he was
drunk or something.

The police had thrown up nets and blockades everywhere. The number of
cars in surrounding precincts were tripled. Walls went up everywhere.
State, county, sheriff deputies' cars formed wall after wall that were
tightening. Information about the crime and a description of Zeke
had been spread over such a wide area from the crime scene that five
states away the police had thrown up blockades. The description was a
formality.

Everyone knew what the Martian looked like.

Johnson waited there in Hatcher's apartment.

He tried to get in touch with the lawyer, but that seemed impossible.
No one knew where Hatcher was. But Johnson knew the police were
shadowing him, hoping he would lead them to where Zeke was hiding.

He had to get over there to that park where Zeke might be hiding,
waiting for him, without being trailed there. That wouldn't be easy. It
was out of Johnson's line.

The newscast said that Zeke had blundered into someone's estate near
the UN grounds and had had a couple of big dogs sent after him. In
protecting himself, Zeke had killed the dogs. It would seem that
killing the two dogs was worse in some ways than if Zeke had killed two
more human beings.

No one, of course, even remembered ever having laughed at Zeke. He had
become the typical alien Martian menace, a Welles and Wells character.
A monster from another world, a bogey Martian, a menace, a stalking
terror, an inhuman monster.

"They'll kill him," Johnson whispered. He got up and got Hatcher's
topcoat out of the closet and put on Hatcher's hat. "They'll kill him
and he won't have any idea what's happened or why." That's the worst
part of it, he thought. Somewhere in the rainy dark was Zeke, feeling
terribly the hostility of his human surroundings. Confused, desperate,
panic-stricken. Not understanding any of it.

Johnson went out into the hall of the apartment-hotel. Empty. The
police would be guarding the front entrance certainly, maybe the back.
But there was another exit out of the basement into the vacant lot, and
maybe they wouldn't know about that.

He went down into the basement, went out that entrance and into
the vacant lot among the dripping trees. He stood there, listening,
watching. He put his hands in Hatcher's topcoat pocket and felt the
small snub-nosed revolver there. He jerked his hand out.

He heard nothing but the rain on the palm fronds and the tires humming
on wet pavement. Above him, the gray night's hand cupped over the city,
reflecting its neon life through misty rain.

He went cautiously through the trees, through a pit being excavated
for building, and emerged onto the street a block and a half away. And
still no one.

He walked faster, signaled a cab. He sat there stiffly and numb with
tension as the cab took him with casual speed to the park.

       *       *       *       *       *

He walked slowly along past the high dense brush of the park next to
the wall, his shoes squeeshing on the wet turf. Beyond the wall he
could see a tall bulky building with little yellow window eyes that
blinked in the rain. Absently, he remembered it was the big Community
Hospital.

"Zeke," he called as he walked past the high dense brush. "Zeke."

He went the length of the park's West end, started back, continuing to
call Zeke's name. The strange alien whisper sent a chill down his arms.

"Mr. Johnson--"

The brush shivered. Zeke had heard the message all right. "Mr. Johnson.
I am ill. I am cold and I am tired. I do not have any idea what to do."

Johnson said. "Come out here, Zeke. You have to turn yourself in to the
proper authorities here that maintain law and order. I've explained
something about that. I promise you it will be all right. You've got to
trust me, Zeke."

"People are afraid of me. They throw stones at me and run away when I
approach them. I cannot understand--"

Johnson explained quickly that the guard Zeke had shoved was dead. "It
has to be straightened out, that's all, Zeke. Then things will be all
right."

Johnson saw the shape back there in the dim wet shadows under the wall,
crouching, hardly distinguishable. He saw Zeke for what he was, a lost
stranger, helpless, incomprehensible. Too bewildered now to understand,
too weary to see anything, too anxious perhaps to care. Alien, sick,
abominably unhappy, taken out of his knowledge, bitter in utter
loneliness, his home so far away--so very far away.

It moved toward him, rising up, rising taller, its undulating hugeness
bending and swaying above the brush. It stood unsteady on its legs,
its rubberoid flesh dripping and shining. Surrounded by the wet night,
Johnson saw him as something cast out mysteriously by the sea on some
alien shore to perish in the supreme disaster of loneliness. Zeke's
body shivered all over suddenly. Johnson sucked in his breath, felt the
quick sick emptiness. He turned. Shapes running, footsteps slipping
and scrambling toward them out of the brush. The glint and shine of
uniforms and guns. They had trailed him after all--

"Stop, don't move! We'll shoot!"

"Don't!" Johnson yelled frantically. "For God's sake, listen." Zeke's
grotesque body crashed backward and Johnson saw the bursts of orange
flame flowering to horror in his brain. Shots blared flatly. Zeke went
up, over the wall and was gone on the other side.

Johnson scrambled into the brush. He felt the gun in his hand and he
felt himself squeeze the trigger once, twice. He was screaming. "Stay
back, you crazy fools! I'll shoot anyone I see moving in here!"

"What's the matter with you--hey--that you, Johnson?"

"He's flipped," someone shouted.

"Johnson! You'll get yourself in a lot of trouble. You might kill
somebody."

"He's crazy," someone said.

"You guys crawl back and go round into the hospital and round up the
Martian."

Johnson crawled along the wall on his hands and knees. He kept crawling
and then, wedging himself between a tree trunk and the wall, edged up
the wall, over it, and dropped to the other side. He ran across the
grounds desperately looking for Zeke.

He saw nothing on the grounds, no sign of anything or anybody. Then
he saw Zeke up there in the gray drizzle, three stories up on the
fire-escape platform. He didn't yell. He ran and then he felt the harsh
wet cold of the metal as he climbed.

He followed wet tracks down the floor of the hall, found a door. As
he started to open it he saw the police come around the corner at the
other end of the hall. They stopped when they saw him. Johnson heard
laughter coming from beyond the door. The laughter got louder. The
shrill, high, spontaneous and abandoned laughter of children.

The police moved cautiously toward him. Johnson opened the door and
went in, shut it quickly behind him.

A nurse came over to Johnson, smiled at him.

She stood with her arms folded and stood beside him and the both of
them watched Zeke in the middle of the big hospital ward.

"We're so glad Zeke came back," the nurse said. "And surprising us this
way makes it so much more delightful for the children."

Yes, thought Johnson dully, Zeke was here before, once. A benefit
performance. For crippled children. And neither the kids nor the two
nurses in here had heard about Zeke's sudden status as a criminal. No
radios in here--only recording machines playing pleasant things for the
kids. Too much unpleasantness on the regular programs.

An isolated world in which they still saw Zeke only as a clown.

The kids on the beds lining the walls, many of whom would never leave
this room except in wheeled chairs, were screaming and hollering and
shrieking with laughter at Zeke's antics. Their laughter bubbled higher
and louder. Zeke twisted round and round, his arms swinging, as he did
a shambling jig, danced this way and that. "The clown's back!" "Dance,
dance, dance some more!" "Stand on your head, Zeke!"

"They have so little real happiness," the nurse said. "I've hoped Zeke
would come back. Nothing here has ever made them happier and laugh more
loudly than Zeke."

Johnson walked through the waves of free wild laughter to Zeke's side.
He whispered.

"Stay right here, Zeke. Don't leave this room until I give you the
word. These kids really appreciate you, Zeke. Believe me, I'm not lying
this time. These kids are happy now, because of you, and they don't
have much happiness. Life's worth living right now for them, Zeke. And
it's because of you. Stay right here."

"I am very sick," Zeke said. "I will do as you say. I cannot go
further."

       *       *       *       *       *

Johnson backed to the door, managed to smile to the nurse, and went
into the hall.

Quickly he shut the door as the police rushed in. Captain Maxson, in
charge of some detail or other, a short heavy blond young man, eager to
do his duty, grabbed at Johnson.

"You go blundering in there to get Zeke," Johnson said, "and you'll
not only take a chance of injuring or killing some of those kids, but
what's worse, you may frighten them, disillusion them for the rest of
their lives!"

"But that monster's liable to start killing in there," whispered Maxson
hoarsely.

"If you go charging in there anything can happen. Let me do it my way
and there won't be any trouble."

"What's your way?" Maxson obviously was in a bad predicament.

"Let me make a phone-call first, then I'll take Zeke out and there'll
be no trouble. I can handle him. That's your only chance. You don't
want to hurt those kids, shock them! They don't know what's happened.
They still think Zeke's funny."

Maxson touched his lips. "All right. Make the call. I'll give you ten
minutes--"

This time he found Hatcher in. He quickly explained the situation.
"Hatcher! You said you'd have the dope from Humphreys at the UN."

"And I have," Hatcher said. "It's all right now. I'll rush a couple of
UN Deputies over there with special orders right now!"

"Well hurry!" Johnson yelled. Then he stepped out of the booth
practically into Maxson's arms.

"Now, go in there and get him out here, Johnson!"

"We're waiting for two United Nations Deputies. They'll be here in a
minute. They're going to take charge of Zeke from now on."

"What--well, okay, let them arrest him. That's a load off my back--"

"They're not coming here to arrest him. But to protect him from being
arrested or otherwise annoyed until he goes back to Mars."

"I don't get it at all. I got orders--"

"Here's how it is," Johnson said. "Now that we've established relations
with another planet, Mars, the UN has jurisdiction over all such
relationships and transactions. UN City is extra-territorial. It
belongs to no nation, including the United States, and therefore the
United States has no jurisdiction over Zeke, or anything having to do
with inter-world relations.

"That's a UN problem. Furthermore, Zeke is here in the capacity of
Martian Ambassador, and the UN has been officially declared the
site of the official future Martian Embassy, and therefore Zeke has
diplomatic immunity. That guard's death was accidental, caused by a
misunderstanding. But regardless, he can't be tried by any nation
on Earth because the accident occurred on Martian Embassy grounds
officially.

"If Zeke's ever tried for any crime it will have to be on Mars. That's
the rule."

And that was the way it was.

After seeking Zeke off in the second Mars-bound rocket, he went to
Billington's and sat in his study, relaxed for the first time in six
months.

"How was Zeke?" Billington asked. "Seem to feel any better about his
visit to Earth?"

"Much better," Johnson said. "In fact, he seemed to feel better about
the whole thing than at any time during his stay here. He said he
understood a great deal more about us than he might otherwise have
learned.

"And he said he understood our laughter too. A safety-valve, he said,
and that he was glad if he allowed us to let off a little steam. He
said there was a lot of steam here that needs to be let off."

Billington smiled. "That's a concise and astute analysis," he said.

"It seems to be the laughter of those crippled kids that did it,"
Johnson added. "Zeke got an idea there how beneficial laughter is."

Billington nodded. "However, maybe Zeke's analysis is
overly-simplified." His mouth set in a serious line. "The laughter of
kids is hardly comparable to the laughter of adults. The kids were
laughing _with_ Zeke. Does he realize the difference there?"

Johnson said, "Maybe he doesn't. The Martians have a lot to learn about
human beings."

"So do we," Billington sighed.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LAST LAUGH ***

***** This file should be named 63986-0.txt or 63986-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/9/8/63986/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

