ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of Last Call, by Bryce Walton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Last Call

Author: Bryce Walton

Release Date: December 11, 2020 [EBook #64015]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LAST CALL ***




                               Last Call

                            By BRYCE WALTON

              A soldier of the Disciplinary Corps hadn't
            cracked up in all the years of Captain Morrow's
              service. Bronson was the first ... Bronson
              who reckoned he was one of the rare beings
                  who had heard THE CALL from Mars.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Planet Stories January 1952.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The small cargo rocket was halfway to Venus when Bronson decided it
was time to take it over. He took care of Orlan first. While Orlan
slept in his bunk, Bronson hit him behind the ear with an alloy bar
and killed him instantly. He then dragged him down to the cargo bins.
The robot was down there, waiting to be sent out into the highly
radioactive areas of Venus where the valuable stuff was, but where no
human could go. He dumped Orlan in there. It might be construed as an
accident, but it probably wouldn't matter to Bronson one way or the
other.

Bronson then went up the narrow ladder to the control room where
Captain Morrow sat with his broad back to Bronson, bent over the
charts. He felt slightly nervous now, looking at Morrow's back. He
brushed the black hair out of his eyes. His long, rather hard face
tightened a little.

He eased the neurogun free and said softly, "Morrow, get up and turn
around slowly. I'm taking this ship to Mars instead of Venus."

Morrow did what he was told. The Disciplinary Corps were conditioned to
be amoral and fairly unemotional. But Morrow's gray eyebrows raised.
His smooth tanned face twisted. "How unexpected can anything be,
Bronson?"

"Get over there," Bronson said. He had figured out the new course
already, and it took him only a minute to change the present one.

"A Corpsman hasn't cracked up as long as I've been in the Service and
that's a long time, Bronson. What hit you?"

"I don't know. I'm going to Mars, that's all."

"Why?"

"Because there's a death penalty for going there. Maybe because
something's there no one's supposed to know about. I found out
something very interesting, Morrow. _The Call comes from there!_"

Morrow's eyes widened a little more. But he didn't ask any more
questions. Bronson tied him in his bunk with plastic cord so he
wouldn't interfere for a while. He rather liked Morrow, said sentiment
being unusual for a Corpsman. But that was another of Bronson's deviant
characteristics that had perplexed him for some time.

By the time the rocket approached Deimos, Morrow expressed something
that had seemingly been bothering him. He called Bronson in there and
it wasn't an act. He was interested. He wasn't mad, or particularly
disturbed. Just curious and interested.

"What are your plans, Bronson?"

"Land on Deimos and take the auxiliary sled to Mars. I'll have
something in reserve and can approach Mars with less chance of being
spotted. If there's anything there to spot me. I'll find out."

Morrow nodded. "That's the way I'd have done it. Will you see me again
before you finish this unbelievable incident?"

"Sure. I'll have to. I wouldn't want to come back to Deimos and find
you'd taken the rocket. Loneliness doesn't appeal to me. I'll be back
to kill you. Maybe not the way I did Orlan. Probably in an easier way."

"Thanks," Morrow said.

Bronson felt nothing about having killed Orlan. Why should he? Such
feeling was reserved for the illiterate masses. And yet, somehow he
felt differently. Orlan had served in the Elimination details and
had been responsible for the killing of a few thousand people. Orlan
couldn't have any kick coming even if he could kick.

Bronson got the rocket down and looked out over the airless cold of the
rock called Deimos, at the stark contrast of shadows dark as death and
splashes of light brilliant as flame. But no movement. Nothing but an
eternal lifeless cold.

He went in for his last scene with Morrow. Bronson's stomach went
hollow as he stared at Morrow's empty bunk. He started to twist
suddenly, grabbing for the neurogun. His arm froze.

Morrow was over in the corner, a gun in his hand. "That plastic is
stronger than any alloy cable," he said, gesturing toward the bunk.
"It's odd though--but a flame, say from one's cigarette lighter, will
burn this particular kind of plastic like paper. You know why I waited?"

"No," Bronson whispered hoarsely.

"I was waiting for you to bring the rocket down. I had a lighter worked
to the point where a pull in the right direction would slide it into
my hand. Sit down, Bronson, and talk to me. Throw that gun into the
corner."

Bronson threw the gun, then sat down stiffly, clenched his big hands
together, feeling the sweat slippery between them.

"Tell me about it, Bronson. I'm a little curious. So curious I might do
something rather unexpected myself."

Bronson felt numb and sick. And then he started talking and as he
talked he forgot about Morrow, and the last few months on Earth were
vivid during re-call.

       *       *       *       *       *

He remembered mostly the long agonizing nights in his dark apartment
alone in Central City, suffering the intense agony of increasing
anxiety and fear.

He had thought from the start that it was only a matter of time until
someone found out that he had gotten THE CALL.

Incredible that a Corpsman should get THE CALL. To the illiterate
masses, sure. But that didn't matter. They didn't know what THE CALL
was, nor what happened when they got it.

But Bronson knew, only too well, what happened. It wasn't what they
thought. To them it was the culmination of an intensely religious
experience, an ecstasy of realization. THE CALL entitled them to leave
their routine, mindless work and play, and follow THE CALL to some
Earthly paradise or other. None of them had seen it, or rather no one
had ever returned to tell of it.

Bronson had seen it. A little white room. A chair in the middle. You
sat there. You were strapped down. A little gas pellet dropped from the
ceiling. You didn't know what hit you, but you never worried anymore.
From there a conveyor belt carried you into an incinerator.

They didn't know what hit them, so it didn't matter. But Bronson knew!
That made all the difference. He had been lucky to have gotten THE CALL
alone in his apartment. When he had looked at Mars, that's when it had
hit him. An indescribable experience bordering on dope dreaming, but
not the same. An odd tingling, a feeling of marvelous detachment from
anything Earthly, and after a while it seemed there were voices in his
mind, and the touch of an alien thought pattern, perhaps. He didn't
know.

The association of THE CALL with Mars grew until there was nothing
else, except his fear of discovery. He didn't want to die. Living
wasn't so bad for a Corpsman. One lived pretty high above the menial
masses with their happy, idiot faces. There were many privileges,
and though a Corpsman couldn't marry, one was allowed to develop
interesting friendships with the women Corps members.

That was another thing. Marie Thurston. What if, as a result of long
intimacy, she should suspect?

He paced in his apartment, perspiration streaming down his throat, his
muscles tense. He didn't want the little white room. Sometime THE CALL
would strike him out there where people were, and he'd act like any of
the others. Raise his arms. Raise them to sky, walk blindly, oblivious
to anything else, his head raised, his mouth gaping, his eyes closed,
feet slogging, stumbling. Mumbling--

But it seemed that Bronson was wrong about that. The masses wanted it
and they didn't know what THE CALL was, so no inhibitory factors. But
Bronson knew, and as a result, he found he didn't get THE CALL unless
he asked for it.

He could look at Mars from his darkened quarters at night alone, and
get THE CALL, and no one knew. And what surprised Bronson was that he
_did_ ask for it. THE CALL became an obsession, with even the Pleasure
Marts, and Marie, sliding into unimportance.

He had to deal with an enigma. He had two choices. Assume he was
insane, the most logical, perhaps. Or that he wasn't insane, in which
case THE CALL was a phenomenon with some material basis in fact outside
of himself.

He decided on the latter as a working hypothesis. He tried to find out
what might really be back of THE CALL. There were the files in the
Corps headquarters at Central City. He questioned some sources subtly.
Studied people who got THE CALL. He even managed to talk with Jacson,
one of the higher echelon Psychologists. The Psychologists had taken
over, established the New System, above them was a small Elite Ruling
class no one ever contacted. They lived apart with very very special
privileges. The Psychologists kept things as they were. They were the
Pavlovians, the reflex boys. Something to do with dogs and ringing
bells.

Jacson gave the usual answer. "Regression. But only a few get THE CALL
each year. It can never cause social disorganization or dissociation.
The last symptom of the old escape drive away from unpleasant reality,
inherent in the germ cells no doubt. But now there's no escape.
Everybody has fun. No troubles. No conflicts. Someday there'll be no
one getting THE CALL."

Who was he kidding, Bronson thought? More got the call each year. That
was hush-hush. Jacson said other things, too. He talked a little about
the pre-New System era. It was schizophrenic, reality and fantasy all
mixed up, and everyone wanting to escape. But the Pavlovians fixed
that. There were bells everywhere in the world. And everyone was happy,
and having fun all the time. Why should I be skeptical, Bronson thought?

He found out a few bits of information in the files, but nothing that
meant anything to him. The stuff about Mars, and the penalty for going
there. No reasons. It was Marie who gave him the idea, a solid course
of action. They were taking a small private monorail car to the ocean
for an under-sea trip. Bronson admired Marie's beauty for a while, but
then he began thinking about THE CALL. Marie had a good build where it
counted. The big brown eyes and the face a little on the pert side, and
always so sweet and smiling. And always full of fun. One seldom saw a
face that wasn't full of fun.

But he didn't react much to her beauty tonight. He stared down through
the falling dusk at the ruins of old cities like bones piled in the
moonlight. Monoliths, leaning and cracked, to a former age no one
remembered. And about which all records had been destroyed.

Bronson said softly, "Sure, there was a big war. Because everybody was
crazy, it's said. But what happened? Who fought who for what and why
and how? The New System is supposed to be sane. But if we don't really
know what the other was like, what's the basis for comparison?"

"You think too much," Marie said, and grinned and kissed the lobe
of his ear. "The idea is to have fun. What's really troubling you,
darling? You can tell me."

If I want to go into the little white room, I can.

"And anyway," she said, "what better proof of insanity do you need than
the fact that they almost blew themselves and the whole world into an
asteroid belt?"

"They?" he whispered. "Who were _they_? Everybody didn't do it. I know
all the stock answers. They weren't sane, socialized, didn't know how
to live together. Big weapons ahead of social science. Imbalance blew
up the world. The war came off in 2037. Economic problems were solved.
Production-consumption balance figured out. Industry producing more
than enough for all, no wants. _Who fought who, for what?_"

       *       *       *       *       *

She frowned. He irritated her these days. He interfered with her love
of living and that was a Number One Sin. Having fun was a twenty-four
hour a day job. And unless you thought about proscribed subjects, even
thinking wasn't considered fun.

"Darling," she said. "If you don't snap out of it, we'll have to find
other companions. Life's too short to bother with questions that have
no important answers."

He shrugged. Until the situation between himself and THE CALL cleared
up, there wouldn't be any room for any other problems, Marie included.
He said, "I wonder what's really behind those poor devils who get THE
CALL?"

She gasped. "Why should you be bothered about--oh, well, they regress
that's all. The psychologists let them believe they're having
visions of paradise and that makes it easier for them. But it's
regressive aberration and they have to be eliminated to prevent social
disorganization." She sounded like a parrot, he thought. "What's so
mysterious about it?"

"I don't know," Bronson said. "But the past's dead, buried, the tomb
markings burned. The psychologists are the only ones who're really
supposed to know. They're not talking. We're the disciplinary boys who
keep things turning their way. But I'd sure like to know some things."

"You'd better snap out of it. I'd hate to think of you getting that
pellet in your lap."

Bronson laughed. "I wonder if it would make any difference to you
at all? The sea is full of fish, all about the same general shape
and efficiency as I am. I have curiosity. An interest in what no
one seems to know. A dissatisfaction, and those are my only unique
qualities--those you reject me for. Otherwise I'd be like everyone
else. Drop me for those few unique qualities, and you'd find
millions of others equally satisfying to your basic demands for male
companionship."

She frowned harder. The moonlight streaming through the duralex windows
into the lonely, hurtling car gave her blonde hair an eery shine.
"Darling, I've liked you because you're a 'man'. I didn't know you were
secretly the un-fun type. Here it is then, straight. Either climb down
to my level and act like a Good Joe, or I'll be selecting one of those
other few million."

Bronson didn't care much now. He didn't say it to her especially. He
murmured it to--the stars maybe--but he was afraid to look up there.
This would be a very bad time to get THE CALL!

"All those who get THE CALL," he said, "are always looking at the
Stars."

She didn't say anything.

He said, "I wonder if there's something connecting THE CALL with the
stars? Something out of Space. Maybe there's something real about THE
CALL."

She jumped up, leaned over him. Her eyes seemed hard now and distant.
"Darling. Why the devil don't you go up there among the Stars and find
out for yourself?"

He sat there staring at her, scarcely seeing her. At the moment, he
didn't think about it logically. But the suggestion hit him hard and
deep and he knew then, though he didn't think about it anymore that
night, that that was exactly what he would try to do.

He didn't see Marie again, but once. At that time she was hanging on
the crooked elbow of one of the other few million. It didn't really
matter who. A big blond lad with a constant glittering smile. A Good
Joe who would always be having a good time, and who never never would
ask any questions.

There was a slight tinge of jealousy for a moment, and when that
passed he didn't seem to care much at all. It was the System that
made everybody seem so much like everyone else so that it became
so difficult to see anything special in a lover. Everything was
for convenience, strictly, and any irritation was an unnecessary
unpleasantness that seldom occurred.

Curiosity was irritating in the New System. A person who got THE CALL
was so irritating he was eliminated. They would find out sooner or
later about him, and then they would kill him. So he volunteered for
duty on an Earth-Venus cargo three-man rocket.

He had nothing to lose but his life in attempting to grab the rocket
and take it to Mars. And almost any other imaginable way of losing it
would be preferable to being taken into the little white room--knowing
what to expect instead of Paradise.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bronson stopped talking. Morrow leaned forward. "What do you expect to
find on Mars?"

"What? But--you mean you'll let me--?"

Morrow nodded slowly. "Maybe. I've been curious too at times. We have
that much in common. Maybe the new blood has been conditioned more
thoroughly than I have, but I've been in a long time, and I get bored
with routine. Now here's a situation that is stimulating, and I say to
myself, why not exploit it? However, I've never gotten THE CALL, and
that puts up a wall between us. Otherwise, I feel a certain rapport."

"Well, are you making a deal or something?"

"Yes, you might say, a kind of deal. Curious, this idea of yours that
THE CALL comes from Mars, added to the fact that it's forbidden to go
to Mars. In the period immediately following the beginning of the New
System, I understand a few rockets went to Mars. None of them ever came
back. No one ever heard of them again."

Morrow sat there, apparently thinking. "So I'm curious, Bronson. You've
already flaunted the law by taking this ship, killing Orlan. You've
admitted you have THE CALL. Certainly you'd be no worse off if you went
to Mars. You might find out something interesting. So there could be a
chance for you. Go on to Mars if you like. I'll wait here five days.
I'll fix the log and the reports, and arrange it so it will appear that
there was an accident on Venus. If you're not back in five days, I'll
stop off at Venus, load a cargo, return to Earth."

Bronson stared, then said, "And if I do come back, what then?"

"I'll rig up a story about Orlan. Too much radiation on Venus. That's
happened a few times before. Officially you'll not be responsible for
Orlan's death. And if you get away from Mars, you can do as you like.
Stay if you want to. Or return to Earth with the rocket, and take a
chance on it being discovered that you have THE CALL, or being able to
conceal it. That's your business. All I ask of you, Bronson, is your
word that you'll come back here in five days if you can. And satisfy my
curiosity."

Later Morrow said, "Good luck, Bronson. Whatever good luck will mean to
you."

Bronson thought about that as he dropped the small grav-sled toward
Mars' surface. Anticipation became anxiety, fear mixed with excitement,
as the sled circled the planet a number of times for purposes of
observation.

_What will good luck mean to me?_

The memory of his experience during THE CALL came back after he spotted
the big metal dome in the deep valley and landed behind a low rise of
red hills. He lay there bottled up inside the narrow, gun-like barrel
of the sled, his helmeted head tight up against the instrument panel.

A metal dome, like the monstrous bald head of a giant buried to the
eyebrows. He had seen no other sign of habitation, no structures of
anything, only barren sea-bottoms and high naked crags. The dome might
be all that was left of what the traders had built here before the
Blowup.

Funny, he didn't feel anything like THE CALL now. He felt nothing but
fear.

Red dust sprayed up around as he crawled out of the sled. He readjusted
his oxygen mask, threw the electronic rifle over his shoulder, and
finally reached the top of the ridge and looked down at the dome. It
had a gray quiet quality. His throat was tense and his chest ached as
he got down on his stomach to watch.

No movement. No sound. A kind of panic hit him, and impulsively,
he started to twist around, not wanting to return to the sled
particularly, but just wanting to see it, feel a comfort with it.

The sled was gone.

Sweat ran down his face. It loosened a nervous flush along his back
which prickled painfully. No sled. He blinked several times, still no
sled. There hadn't been any sound. He would have heard it take off.

He jerked himself back toward the dome. He felt the thought fingers,
then, like tendrils of outside force subtly probing. Something,
something greater than before, stirred incredibly through his body. The
old feeling of change, of unutterable newness, of an unguessed sense,
opened within him like nothing before. Then ... nothing.

He crawled down. The dome was still. No openings in it. The red dust
drifting was the only movement anywhere except his own. He glanced
back, hoping to see the sled. He didn't and then when he turned back
toward the--

The dome wasn't there.

His fingers dug into the red dust at his sides. Sweat turned it to
reddish mud on his fingers. He felt as though an immense cyst of
suppuration and purulence had burst inside him. All the water in
his body seemed to rush to the surface. Sweat dripped steadily,
automatically from the top of his nose, over his mask. His heart
pounded like a fist beating against a wall.

Just dust down there. No dome. He dropped his forehead on his arms,
closed his eyes. Surely he was being influenced by outside force.
Negative hallucination.

He raised his head, opened his eyes. Around him was a small island of
red dust, a small oasis large enough to support him. Nothing more.
Nothing else at all.

The painful tension in his chest grew until he could scarcely breathe.
His jowls darkened, his mouth pressed thin by the powerful clamp of his
jaw.

No--not nothing at all. Grayness, though no form, or sound or movement.
Meaninglessness within nothingness surrounded by a terrible infinitude
of quiet. He felt a kind of final helplessness, an utter isolation.

He glanced down then at himself as the small red oasis around him
drifted as though to merge with grayness. He was going too. Even I, I,
I, am going too. His feet, his legs. He brought his arms around before
his face and as he did that his arms went away. He didn't feel anything.

He closed his eyes as he began, seemingly, to fall. Sensations washed
through him, through fibers of seeming delirium. A vortex of nausea
then, resolving in his stomach.

Somewhere, somehow, there seemed to be the promise of some kind of
solidity. Of being. Bright light from within, the bright splinters of
brain light lancing outward through the tender flesh of his eyeballs,
dancing back and around the base of his brain in reddened choleric
circles. He had a brain, a mind, yet, somewhere.

Desperately he felt his mind scurrying about inside his body. Or
perhaps a retentive memory of that body, like a rodent in a maze,
concentrating frantically on first the nothingness that had been a
limb, then on the tingling aftermath of where his fingers had once
moved.

He fought. He fought to grasp something, to see, to feel, to
comprehend. He fought wildly against nothing so that it all circled
around and round and exploded inside, bursting, bathing him with fire
as though he were inside an air-tight container boiling himself in his
own accumulating heat.

He gave up. He gave in to an overpowering drawing force. Immediately
there was no fear. It was as though he had stopped struggling against
a strong current in a vast ocean, and was now floating serenely away,
buoyed without effort, drifting forever.

He seemed to glimpse the cloudy, shapeless motion of shadows, like
storm clouds boiling and driven before a gale. Familiarity grew,
impressions, inchoate mental patterns. Shadows and shapes appeared
in the cloudy whiteness, ghostly and strange, and wavering outlines
darkened and altered.

And then he became a part of IT, of something else. And he knew. He
had been tested, and there had been the madness of shock as he was
being investigated, and finally accepted and absorbed. None of it
was incredible to Bronson after he had been taken in. The truth came
through then--clear and bright.

IT was far greater than Bronson, but he was part of IT, and IT was part
of him. And he knew.

Morrow was waiting for him. As Bronson came into the control room,
Morrow's face paled and he slowly licked his lips then plunged his
hand toward the neurogun. His hand froze, then crept back guiltily. He
tried to speak, but his lips moved wordlessly. Sweat began pocking his
face.

Bronson sat down facing Morrow. He could see Morrow now for what he
was. A disease. Rather a symptom of long forgotten sickness. Maybe he
could be cured.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bronson said, "You were curious, but you would never have gotten THE
CALL. You were curious and you helped me and the world, Morrow, so I'm
going to explain it to you. You want to hear about it?"

"What?" Morrow said hoarsely. His eyes were sharp with fear. "Three
hours--back in three hours. You look--different, so different--your
eyes and--"

"I found out things, Morrow. About the War, about the Plan. Some
scientists calling themselves Freedom Unlimited, bio-chemists,
physicists and geneticists, organized and said they were going to bring
about the realization of man's unlimited potentialities. Create a
Paradise on Earth. An old dream. Those who get THE CALL haven't been so
far wrong, basically. But the Psychologists reconditioned them so the
real nature of THE CALL was distorted."

Morrow shook his head.

"No, and you probably won't understand after I tell you," Bronson said.
"But so what? I promised to tell you. Freedom Unlimited took hold,
wiped out national barriers, started to sweep the world. They had found
the secret of the human mind and nervous system, adopting the methods
of atomic physicists. X-rays tear an electron from an atom. They did
the same thing with genes, with the cells of the nervous system. Genes
and cells, the roots of life. The rock-bottom of life. The problem of
the gene and that of the atom were the same. Anyway, they learned the
secret of the human brain, that it was a perfect calculating machine."

Morrow was struggling with himself, not moving.

Bronson went on. "I'm controlling you some now, Morrow. You can't move.
We're in a hurry so I'll make it brief; there's a job to do. A perfect
calculating machine, maybe the most perfect one in the Universe,
limitless, inexhaustible. Secretly, Freedom Unlimited started releasing
people, clearing them of aberrations, clearing their nervous systems
of sludge, fusing emotion with analytical power, so the perfect
calculating machine could operate. The movement spread so fast, it
threatened various governments, including those in power. The status
quo would rather maintain power and be ignorant and blind than to give
up their power to the final step of progress. There was a pogrom. The
real reason couldn't be revealed of course, so the big powers cooked up
a war to cover up the purge. It got out of hand. The result was that
civilization was about wiped out. The world burned. Freedom Unlimited
had learned the power of the human brain, but they were too few, and
the Psychologists managed to fight them long enough to carry through
the war. Freedom Unlimited fled to Mars. They couldn't engage in
wholesale slaughter. But they had to survive."

It was so clear now in Bronson's mind, as though he were experiencing
it.

"Many of the scientists had been killed, only a few reached Mars.
But they had launched a Plan. They planted basic undying commands,
responses, in the reactive primitive cells of individuals whom they
knew would reproduce in kind. They knew how to treat genes like
chemical formulae. They knew the genes and cells would carry these
commands from generation to generation. The commands led to THE CALL. A
call to come to Mars, that's all. Once they got to Mars, they would be
free."

Bronson leaned forward. "But Freedom Unlimited didn't anticipate the
utter nihilism, the complete inhuman attitude of those who had defeated
them. There were variables. Freedom Unlimited couldn't anticipate the
utter power and suppression put into effect by the Psychologists,
the reflex boys. That they would condition every bit of imaginative,
creative, original thought and action out of everyone but a small elite
who, because of their own destructive nihilistic attitudes, were never
human in the first place, but only aberrated monsters. And all the rest
of humanity became little more than robots, zombies, mechanicals, their
analytical power chopped off, short-circuited completely. They can
only have fun like well-trained moronic children. With bells ringing
everywhere, the Pavlovians turned humans into dogs."

Morrow didn't say anything. His face was pinched and afraid, confused
and helpless.

"The Psychologists suspected the basis of the Plan. They converted
it by conditioning into a kind of religion. Then it wasn't dangerous
anymore. Meanwhile, they had also learned they could never reach Mars.
There's a final step to releasing the pure analytical power of the
human mind. Synthesis. Similarization. There's a dome down there shaped
like the skull of a giant. Inside that metal skull is a synthesis of
human intellect and machinery, pure analytical power. The brain, at
its optimum, is a perfect thinking machine. No five perfect thinking
machines would solve a problem differently. The result is synthesis.
With synthesis came an ultimate thinking machine because it gives off
energy, electrical let us say for convenience, in the form of thought.

"And that master brain down there has the will to radiate and control
this great energy. It's a kind of final perfection of the unguessed
power of the brain. It goes beyond the human, for them at least. They
can send out beams, or rather it, sends out beams of sheer power, solid
thought, by dipping into nine million brain cells plus a hundred. That
brain can stop any enemy's approach to Mars, but it couldn't reach
Earth. Yet.

"You follow me, Morrow?"

Morrow nodded slowly. He slumped a little. His face was shabby now and
old. "Some of it," he whispered. "I don't understand. But I believe. I
have to believe. You--power--"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have a lot of power," Bronson said. "I'll have more of it. You see,
the Plan really did work in a sense. Variables work both ways. Over a
period of time, circumstances meshed in such a way that a Disciplinary
Corpsman named Bronson got THE CALL. The sight of the planet Mars was
the key-in stimulant. I happened to be alone in my apartment so that no
one knew I'd been hit. I happened to be a Corpsman which meant I knew
what happened to those who got THE CALL. I couldn't accept that, so I
had to look for other reasons. I also happened to never have undergone
brain surgery, any prefrontal lobotomies, for example. Those things
destroy the analytical mind so even Freedom Unlimited is not certain of
a cure. I couldn't doubt my own sanity. So I came to Mars, I answered
THE CALL. It happened to me by accident, but I had the command in my
cells ready for re-stimulation."

"What now?" Morrow said. "What do you do now? What about me--and--"

"I'll go back to Earth, and start to work. With each clearing of a
human being from his Pavlovian prison, I'll gain greater strength,
allies. No one will know. This time there'll be no disaster because the
destructive elements of war aren't there. The Psychologists are too
sure of themselves. We'll win the world and free men's minds."

"And what about me?"

Bronson looked at Morrow's face. A thoroughly conditioned face really.
Hardly human at all if one knew what a human face could really express.
Strange, that spark of curiosity in a man whose brain had obviously
undergone deadly probing with steel picks under the eyeballs, tearing
apart the cells of the greatest thinking device ever developed.

"You're going to Mars," Bronson said softly. "Maybe they can clear
you. I had THE CALL planted in an ancestor. You didn't. It missed you,
Morrow. With the command carried forward always in the cells went also
resistance to conditioning. You didn't have it, Morrow. It may be too
bad and it may not. They've learned a lot in a hundred years."

Bronson got up and put a hand gently on Morrow's shoulder. "I don't
know," he said. "I'm sorry. Maybe you'll be with me later. If you're
not back here in a short time, that'll mean good-bye. I'll wait for
you...."

Morrow got up. He nodded once to Bronson, and went out. Bronson heard
the sled blast out of the rocket.

Morrow didn't come back.

Bronson took the rocket up, headed toward Venus. He would pick up the
cargo; the story Morrow had arranged about an accident on Venus could
work just as well to explain Bronson's single return as Morrow's.

He had some advantage in his command of the human mind. But it wasn't
omnipotent by any means. He would be operating alone against murderers
who had turned human beings into cattle. He would have to play it slow
and with the utmost care.

And though he might fail, there would be others. He could forget about
Morrow and Orlan. So much of them had been destroyed by surgery that in
a comparative sense, they hadn't been really human anymore.

He wasn't troubled by the tremendous challenge ahead of him. It exalted
him.

Some day, we'll win, he thought. Freedom Unlimited. The freedom of the
free human mind. He might fail. But THE CALL would go on. There would
always be deviants from the norm. He could fail. The Plan could not.

Bronson smiled at the twilight expanse before the rocket, wide and
frosty and marvelously clear.

As long as there were people, there would always be a few who would get
THE CALL.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LAST CALL ***

***** This file should be named 64015-0.txt or 64015-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/0/1/64015/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

