ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Ambassadors From Venus, by Kendell
Foster Crossen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: The Ambassadors From Venus

Author: Kendell Foster Crossen

Release Date: December 13, 2020 [EBook #64045]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE AMBASSADORS FROM VENUS ***




                      The Ambassadors from Venus

                       By KENDELL FOSTER CROSSEN

                    _A Novelet of Grim New Worlds_

         _Strange. Strange. The empty space ships. The patched
       voices. The curt invitation to Venus. But what had Clyde
         Ellery and the other atom-plague survivors to lose?_

             _They forgot there are many kinds of death!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories March 1952.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The first ship landed in a plowed field fifty miles from the city, just
beyond the signs that warned of radiation. Rather circular in shape, it
was fully sixty feet across and twenty feet in thickness, its color a
burnished green. It came down swiftly until it was fifty feet from the
ground; then a gush of flame poured from the under side and checked its
fall. It settled to the soil, like a giant mushroom, and there was a
smell of scorched earth in the air.

Max Carr was the first to see it. He was sitting under the gnarled
apple tree in the front yard, and he watched the ship settle down on
that tail of fire. He should have been out in the fields planting, but
he wasn't. He hadn't worked in months, beyond milking the cows and
tossing them wisps of hay. He knew that a hundred million people had
died in America the day the bombs fell, that hundreds of millions
more had died in Europe the following day, and in Asia and Africa the
day after, as American atomic bombs rocketed in reply to the sudden
attack.

He knew that millions had died since, and were still dying as the
radioactivity bit deep into their bones and flesh. He felt the clutch
of death on himself, so he looked at the ship with little curiosity.
It was a strange ship, but there was nothing it could do that had not
already been done.

But when nothing happened, when no strange warriors came swaggering
from the ship, his sluggish interest uncoiled and took on life. He
called his wife and children and they cautiously approached the ship.
Still nothing happened. It seemed to be made of solid metal, with no
windows or doors. They touched the strange metal and stared at the
blackened ground, and then returned to the lethargy that was their
daily fare.

The ship might have set there in the field, forgotten for months, if
a neighbor hadn't stopped by that evening. He saw the ship and asked
questions and carried the news away with him. It was the first thing
that had happened in months which was at least neutral, and he stopped
at three houses to talk about it. He was tired of talking about death.

Three days later, they trudged into Max Carr's farm, some of them
coming from as far as twenty miles away. A dozen men and women stood in
the field and stared at the ship. Max Carr and his wife joined them.

"Big, huh?" one of the men said, but no one answered him. They were a
small community in which everything had been said.

Two more men came along the road, their dragging feet kicking up little
spurts of dust, and turned into the field. After fifteen minutes,
another arrived. It was when he drew near the ship that it happened.

There was a loud click from somewhere inside the ship and a crack
appeared in the side as a panel slid back. Soon there was an opening,
large enough for a man to enter or leave. It was dark within. But no
one came from the ship, nor was there a single step taken nearer it.
The small group stood and waited.

"People of Earth," said a harsh voice from the ship, "you have just
come through a war and there are few of you left alive. There is little
hope for any of you, for the radioactivity is spreading over the
entire face of your planet. This ship has come to invite those of you
who are not sick to establish a colony on the planet which you call
Venus. You may pick one of your group to represent you. If he is not
already a victim of radiation, he will be permitted to enter this ship
and learn more of this plan."

The voice cut off with an audible click.

       *       *       *       *       *

The men and women in the field shuffled about in indecision. They
stared at each other in fear. Who among them was not sick? There was
doubt on every face and in everyone the thought that it would be better
not to know. Then the self-searching ended as though by common consent,
with every eye swinging to a man who stood apart from the group.

Clyde Ellery was a scientist, one of the few to escape the death of
their own making. On vacation, high in a mountain retreat, he had
seen the sky turn angrily red, had watched the pall of smoke. He had
hurried back, but there was nothing to do. There was no place that the
Geiger counter did not purr its message, and all he could do was mark
the dividing line between quick death and slow death. He had watched
the faces turned toward him, burning anger checked by the knowledge
that there was no punishment to fit the crime. Under the weight of
those glances, the burden of being alone, Clyde Ellery's shoulders had
stooped and rounded. He walked alone, and recognized its justice.

There was a difference in the looks now turned in his direction. He
sensed it, even before he lifted his head. His gaze went swiftly from
face to face and in those few silent seconds the appointment was made
and accepted. Clyde Ellery's thin shoulders straightened and he stepped
forward, walking through the small crowd to the ship. At the doorway,
he stopped. There was a queer rigidity to his body, as if he were
leaning against an invisible barrier. For a full minute he stood there,
unmoving, being tested by others than his neighbors.

"This man has no sickness," the voice from the ship announced suddenly.
"He may enter."

Clyde Ellery stepped through the door and was gone into the darkness
beyond.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sun glinted from the burnished green hull, but no light entered the
blackness that was the doorway. There was nothing to see or hear. The
men and women stood patiently in front of the ship and waited. They
seemed unaware of the passage of time, for they lived in the stasis of
a minute.

Shadows were longer by a foot or more when Clyde Ellery again appeared
among them. There was an expression of hope on his face, but they
stared back without understanding.

"We must leave the field," he told them. They followed him across the
furrowed ground, accepting for the moment his leadership. Beyond the
staggering rail fence, near to the once-red barn, he turned to look
back at the strange ship.

The doorway was closed and once again there was only the smooth metal,
looking green and alive against the brown earth. As they watched, the
ship quivered, then rose a few feet on a single leg of fire. It hung
poised in the air as the fire fanned out, grew solid and orange. There
was no sound, but they could feel the heat against their faces. The
pillar of fire lengthened, pushing the ship against the sky. Then the
fire lifted from the earth and the ship was flashing out of sight,
leaving only the offal of blackened soil as proof of its visit.

Clyde Ellery turned and walked to where the gnarled apple trees
guarded Max Carr's house. He dropped to the ground. The others seated
themselves around him and waited. The children grouped near the pump
and were silent.

"It'll be back," Clyde Ellery said, and there was confidence in his
voice. The strength of words had been redeemed. "It has gone to other
communities like this one--all over the world. But it will return--it
and other ships like it."

He paused, but there were no questions. The hope that was within him
found no new ground. They were aware of no questions that had not been
answered by the bursting flame and mushrooming smoke he had helped to
make. They expected no answers, yet they respected that which they saw
in his face.

"The ship was empty," Clyde Ellery said after a while, "but there was a
recording which told me everything. There is to be another chance for
Man--for those of us who are not yet radioactive."

They waited patiently, these men and women who had looked too long upon
death to recognize life.

"The ship is from Venus--built by what, I don't know. Speech, as we
know it, must be unknown, for the recording we all heard, and those
that were played for me, were pieced together from words recorded here
on Earth. Almost every word was spoken by a different voice. They must
have recorded many conversations here, then picked out the needed
words and made up their message on new records. It indicates no spoken
language, perhaps no vocal cords, but a high degree of intelligence."

He was the only one interested in the high degree of intelligence.

"The ships are apparently remote-controlled," he said, and it was easy
to see that he was dreaming of the science that had made such ships
possible. "I suspect the ships are magnetic-powered for the record said
that the trip to Venus can be made very quickly--a matter of hours." He
realized then that among his listeners there was not one who cared how
the ship was powered. He said bluntly, "All the people of Earth who are
still healthy are invited to go to Venus. One half of the entire planet
will be given to us. We must take with us our own animals and our own
plant seeds, those that are also healthy. They will provide as many
ships as are necessary.

"The ships are somehow built to detect the healthy and the unhealthy.
It will be impossible for a person, an animal, or for any seed, to pass
within the ship unless it is healthy. There will be no chance for the
sickness to take root in the new colony."

They had come to accept death for all, and there was only fear at the
thought that some of them might live. They stared stolidly at a point
just above Clyde Ellery's head.

"The climate and the atmosphere on Venus are pretty much the same as
here," Clyde Ellery continued. "There is more precipitation--more rain,
but not too much. The soil is rich, and will not need fertilizers
for years. One half of the planet--the half towards Earth--will be
ours to cultivate and govern as we please. We may take as many
personal possessions with us as we wish, as long as they are free
from radioactivity. There--there is--" his voice faltered, then went
on--"one other requirement in accepting their help. We cannot take any
equipment or literature necessary to the making of weapons of war,
including atomic bombs, and the record said that any attempt to make
destructive weapons on Venus will bring death to those doing it. Other
than that, there will be no interference. The ships will be here within
a week."

A bird chirped feebly from the branches of the apple tree, but there
was no other sound. The men and women sat quietly in the grass and
looked at Clyde Ellery without emotion. From farther off, the children
stared in futile imitation.

"That's all," Clyde Ellery said lamely. "The ships for this area will
land in the same field. Within a week." He paused, then walked toward
the road. He was alone again, a leader with no followers.

By ones and twos, the others left as the sun dropped lower. No words
were given, no promises made, in the leaving. No man looked to his
neighbor.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was an uneventful week. The women still cooked meals automatically,
and between meals they stared endlessly through windows; the men still
did a few chores or sat in the shade and stared. Here and there a man
might lift his head to the skies and feel a stirring of something like
hope, but then he'd see a withered plant or walk through the fields to
find a dead cow and he'd go back to sitting in the shade. And it was
the same all over the world, whether the man was black or yellow or
white.

The same ship returned to the field on Max Carr's farm. With it were
a number of other ships, larger by far. They covered the field, like
strange green growths, and the earth was black from their flames.

They stood there, empty and waiting for the people to come. And come
they did, without hope and with little curiosity. Still they came,
walking through the dry dust, riding in Fords and Cadillacs, driving
horses and oxen and even goats. They came for days in an endless
stream of plodding humanity, clutching personal possessions, carrying
precious bags of seeds, driving livestock before them. Men and women
and squawling children. Some wore scars where they could be seen, great
livid welts that gave mute testimony to the progress of man; others
bore their scars unseen. All were silent and looked away quickly if
they met another's eye.

The doors of the ships opened and the recorded voice from the smaller
ship told them to enter the other ships, taking with them their seed
and their animals. In listless streams they poured through the nearest
doorways, and some came out of one door and some from another. Some
entered holding a bag of seed and came out holding two. There were
husbands and wives who went in holding hands and came out by different
doors. As they left the ships, they stood where the voice directed
them. Slowly one group grew, one or two at a time adding to its
numbers, while the other swelled out over the field.

Those in the smaller group looked to the larger and there were many who
saw a beloved, a husband or wife, a child or parent, standing among the
rejected. A hand that a moment before had gripped another now clutched
the limp throat of a bag filled with dying seed. There were some who
gazed across the field, then looked briefly through a mist of sadness
and longing at the shimmering ships before stepping across to volunteer
for death with those they could not leave. There were others who looked
across to the larger group and turned away to weep, but stayed where
they were.

For several days the sorting of seed and equipment, animals and people,
continued. The two camps became little tent villages with smoldering
fires. Thin rays of light, unseen during the day, soft blue at night,
reached out from the ships between the two groups. Those from the
smaller group could pass through the rays, but when two men tried to
sneak in among the chosen they were stopped as though by a brick wall.
Others tried going around the fingers of light late at night, but the
rays curved and drove them back. None of the rejected left, but camped
there in silent resignation. One place was the same as another, and
they had nothing to do but wait.

Clyde Ellery worked day and night, helping to form the lines, carrying
children and packages, seeing that the campers had enough to eat. He
almost forgot himself in the pressing needs of the exodus.

On the third day, the smaller ship again shot into the sky and vanished
from sight. On the morning of the fourth day, just as the last of the
sorting was being done, it returned. The door yawned blackly and the
recorded voice spoke:

"Those who have shown no evidence of radiation will please enter the
large ships." The small group stirred into life and began to file into
the ships, prodding their animals before them. Here and there a man or
woman waved in the direction of the larger group and looked quickly
away; but the rest of them looked rigidly ahead as they went.

Clyde Ellery again helped, wondering if he should enter the last ship.
Then the chosen were all loaded, while beyond the fence those who were
to stay watched wordlessly. Children of the atom, Clyde Ellery thought
fleetingly, and turned to enter the ship only to find his way barred by
the closing panel. For a swift moment, he felt panic flooding him.

"The man," said the metallic voice from the small ship, "who first
entered this ship will now enter again."

       *       *       *       *       *

Clyde Ellery crossed the field quickly and stepped into the ship. On
his first visit, he had turned to the right into a small chamber where
the recorded voice had spoken to him. But this time he felt some unseen
force turning him to the left. He followed the pressure and entered
a large room. Weird flickering lights blazed from niches high on the
rounded wall. Scattered around the room were various-sized pads similar
in shape to chairs. A number of other men looked up as he entered.

The floor quivered beneath his feet. There was a quick surge of
soundless power, and he knew they were taking off. His body was heavy
and ungainly; there was a feeling of pressure which brought with it a
quick nausea. Then, slowly, he was aware of an adjustment in the room.
The pressure eased off, gravity returned to normal. The ringing in his
ears stopped and his stomach righted itself. Having seen the ship take
off, he knew that they were traveling at a rate of speed never before
known on Earth, yet he was soon unaware of movement at all. He stepped
forward to become acquainted with the others.

He had seen at a glance that these were men from all over the
world--their faces all colors and shapes. Slowly making his way around
the room, he learned their names. It was an exotic roll call--Wang Chin
Kwang, Anton Dubov, Jean-Paul Monet, David Hellman, Courtland Stokes,
Riyad el Khoury, Kano Mbabane, Alexandre Spaak, Boleslaw Rzymowski,
Vincent Ravielli, Mohandas Punjab, Konstantinos Piraeus. To it, he
added the name of Clyde Ellery. Language was only a minor problem, for
there was always someone who could translate when he was unable to
understand. There were as many occupations and trades as there were
faces. Some wore a look of guilt that faded slowly, and some still held
confusion darkly in their eyes. But in all there was the slow-fuse of a
new hope.

Each, Clyde Ellery found, had gone through much the same experience as
he had. Each of them represented the science of his community, whatever
its stage, ranging from Kano Mbabane, a witch doctor, to Ellery who was
a nuclear physicist.

As the ship flashed silently on its journey, the men explored. The
hull was of a metal unknown on Earth. They were able to groove deep
scratches in its surface with an ordinary penknife, but within two
minutes the scratch would vanish. It felt almost soft to the touch, but
was obviously of great strength. They began to understand its purpose,
if not its structure, when a section of the wall suddenly bulged inward
more than a foot, then slowly smoothed out.

"Good heavens," exclaimed Courtland Stokes, as they stared at the
retreating bulge, "that must have been a small meteorite! Imagine the
uses of a metal with the strength to resist such a force. Why if we'd
had this metal--"

He broke off, but the thought was there. This was a metal which might
have resisted even the atom bomb.

Two of the men translated his remarks into the other languages.

"_Djen shi dje yang dy mo?_" Wang Chin asked dryly.

There was no need to translate the comment. They all understood the
ironic tones. Stokes' thought had reminded them that if they and their
kind had used atomic energy for the benefit of the world there would
have been no need for a defense against it. They turned to other things
within the ship in order to forget the thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

Light for the interior of the ship came from shoulder-high recesses
around the wall. They looked into them, expecting an improved lighting
system, surprised at finding only small steady-burning flames. The
flames seemed to be coming from the center of a small green plant. One
of the men stretched a hand toward a small flame only to withdraw it
quickly with an exclamation of pain. The heat was intense for several
inches around the flame, but then it dissipated quickly.

The remainder of the ship was just as strange. The seating arrangements
around the interior of the ship seemed to be made of broad thick
leaves, somehow fused together, yet still feeling alive. In the small
compartment, where each of them had originally gone to listen to the
recordings, they discovered a number of fibrous cones which were
apparently the records. One was still in a position which indicated
that it had not yet been used, while the others were dropped to one
side. But they were unable to examine them, for there was some sort of
energy belt which kept them at a distance.

There was another small compartment which was apparently the engine
room, or what would have corresponded to it in an Earth ship. But there
were no mighty motors, as might have been indicated by the power of the
ship--only a small hopper into which another hopper fed a continuous
stream of crimson pellets. Except for their color, these looked like
large seeds. The men guessed that in some way the second hopper broke
down the atomic structure of the pellets to convert them into power,
but again they were frustrated in their attempts at closer examination
by an invisible belt of energy.

Hardly had they finished their sketchy inspection when they felt
the ship decelerate. A moment later, they were aware that the ship
had come to rest. The door did not immediately open, so they turned
expectantly toward the compartment of the cones. They did not have long
to wait.

"You are now on the planet you know as Venus," the voice said in
English, with that strange change of voice on almost every word. "You
who have helped to organize your own kind for this trip are the first
to arrive. The other ships will begin to arrive within an hour, so
there will be time for you to do preliminary planning. As you leave the
ship, you will notice that this half of the planet has been cleared of
all native vegetation with the exception of a few trees. You will find
that they are so arranged as not to interfere with the construction of
your housing, so you are requested not to destroy them. They will not
cross-breed with your own vegetation. You will notice that arrangements
have been made for the protection of the ships which brought you here;
but for the rest--you are on your own, Earth-men. You may now leave the
ship."

The door opened and the men hurried out, anxious to see the world which
would become a new Earth.

"Strange," Stokes muttered to Clyde Ellery, as they filed through the
door. "From the way that record was worded, it sounds as if the natives
who sent the ships for us do not intend to show themselves at all.
Deuced peculiar."

"Maybe not so strange," Clyde Ellery said. "Remember the theories that
evolution on other planets may have followed an entirely different
line than on Earth? This may be the case, and, knowing the tendency of
humans to dislike anything different from themselves, the natives may
have wisely decided to stay in hiding for the time being."

"Whatever they are," said David Hellman, who had been listening, "they
are certainly more advanced than we, so any contact should be to our
advantage."

"If our hosts ever decide that they want anything to do with us,"
Clyde Ellery said dryly. He waved ahead of them as they stepped to the
ground. "And they apparently don't as yet."

Ahead of them stretched the broad, flat continent. With two
exceptions, all there was to see was rich-looking, bare soil. There
was a looseness to the dirt which made it seem that not so long ago
it had been cultivated, but now there was not so much as a blade of
grass. The bareness of the black earth made the exceptions even more
noticeable. Not far from where their ship was grounded, there were two
rows of trees, about the width of an Earth city street apart. The trees
were towering, half again as tall as the giant redwoods of Earth. The
leaves, a delicate pink in color, were broad and oval, curling at the
edges to form almost a perfect ball. These hung down from the limbs,
swaying toward the ground. From each rounded leaf there were two waving
tendrils, looking almost like antennae, ranging from a deep pink at the
base to a light purple at their tips.

Back of where the ship had grounded, there was a rounded, dome-like
structure, large enough to house several hundred of the ships. Green
in color, it seemed to be built of broad, flat leaves. Around it were
a number of trees, their limbs twisting far above the building. Their
leaves were long and tapering, a deep orange in color, while the trunk
and limbs were dark green. From each limb hung dozens of pods, fully
three feet long and a foot thick at the center, tapering to an end
which seemed to have an opening three or four inches in diameter.

For the rest, there was only rich dark soil for almost as far as the
eye could see. At a distance, where the curve of land met the sky, they
could see the edge of what appeared to be almost a jungle. But, except
for the tree leaves moving restlessly in the slight breeze, there was
no movement, no sound.

Within the hour the other ships began arriving, in groups of two and
three. First to land were those which had been loaded with material.
As the passenger ships landed, the men were divided into two groups.
One was set to putting up tents which could shelter them that night,
while the other swiftly unloaded materials and began to throw up the
prefabricated walls of the first Earth buildings.

When night came on the strange planet, darkness descending quickly,
bringing with it a light pattering of rain. A city of tents had
mushroomed across the Venusian plains and skeletal walls were already
thrusting skyward near the double line of trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Earthlings were up with the sun the following morning, small fires
blazing among the tents as the women busied themselves with breakfast.
The men held a hasty meeting, and elected as a temporary council to
govern them the men who had come in the first ship. They in turn
elected Clyde Ellery as their first chairman.

That second day upon Venus was a hectic one. A hasty tabulation
revealed that they were a little more than two hundred thousand
strong--counting children and infants--all that were still healthy from
Earth's once thriving billions. Architects and city planners were found
among them and Earth City began to go up with a rush. As one building
was being finished, the plans for the next one were being handed to the
workers. Construction crews were followed by electricians; plumbing
went into houses as cesspools were still being dug. Farms were laid out
around the new city, all of them equal in size, and furrows were being
turned while surveyors still sighted through their instruments.

For two weeks the work continued at the same mad pace. And that section
of Venus more and more took on the look of Earth. The broad fields were
sectioned in geometric patterns where already tender green plants and
young grass shoots were thrusting their way through the soil. Within
fenced plots, the cows and horses munched on their hay and looked with
longing at the tender shoots. Chickens scratched in the black dirt, and
roosters greeted the Venusian sunrise with the same clarion voices as
on Earth.

Within the city, which had now spread to almost ample size, flowers
were already growing in the yards. Clothes, bought in Cleveland and
Pinsk, in Surrey and Isfahan, hung side by side to dry in the Venusian
sun. The main street, running between the two rows of strange trees
with their curved and nodding leaves, was lined with stores bearing
signs in almost every language of Earth. The colony had already issued
its own money and business was flourishing. Earth City possessed every
business and profession save one--they had no use for a mail man.

It was on the fifteenth day of their stay on Venus, when the work was
slacking down to normal, that two of the colonists decided that if they
had some extra wood they would build corncribs although it was still
some time before they would have corn. They shouldered axes, mounted
horses and rode off toward the line of jungle that marked the edge of
the land given to Earth people.

Hours later, the two horses returned without the riders, and a search
party was formed.

It was almost dark when the two men were found, lying unconscious not
far from the edge of the strange and exotic forest. When they were
revived, they remembered only that there had seemed to be some sort of
barrier trying to keep them out of the forest. One of them described it
as a strong wind, although there had been no wind blowing. But they had
forced their way against it, shoving step by step within the jungle,
and that was the last they remembered. Both had the impression that
something must have struck them down. Much bruised and shaken, they
were helped back to their homes, and the story of their experience
spread rapidly.

That evening, a voice spoke to the colonists. It was a voice much
like the one heard from the first ship to land on Earth, but this one
sounded as if it came through several loudspeakers. Its message was
simple.

"People of Earth," the voice said; "you were offered a generous portion
of this planet, and ships were sent to bring you from your sickened
homes, with the understanding that you would not attempt to enter the
other portions, nor would you harm any of the life already existing
here. Yet some of you have tried to break this agreement, intending to
destroy local trees. Do not let this happen again."

There was no way to tell from where the voice came.

That night there was a Town Meeting; and by the time it was called it
seemed that the entire colony was there and waiting. There were angry
looks on many of the faces and on some the anger was mixed with fear.
It was obvious that they had already talked among themselves about the
earlier incident, for little time was lost once the meeting was called
to order by Clyde Ellery. A big, red-headed man stood up in the center
of the building.

"I'm Lennie Johnson," he said loudly, "but I reckon I'm talking for
most of them here. And we don't like the way things are going."

"Are you referring to the accident that happened to Roberts and
Sayyid?" Clyde Ellery asked.

"You're damned right I am," the red-headed man said, "and we don't
think it was an accident. When we were first invited to come up here,
most of us thought it was a pretty neighborly thing. We had the idea
that there was a bunch of people up here, pretty much like ourselves,
and they were acting the way any of us would if a neighbor was in
trouble. But now we ain't so sure. Why was them ships sent down to us
and why was this land turned over to us? And why ain't we seen anybody?"

A murmur from the crowd showed that others were thinking the questions
he asked. Clyde Ellery rapped for order and said: "I'm afraid that we
haven't been in a position to question our gift too strongly. It has
been enough that we've had the opportunity of saving our lives."

"Have we now?" shouted the big red-headed man. "We're beginning to
get a different idea about it. If this thing was on the up and up--if
there was people up here who wanted to help us--why, then, they'd have
been around to welcome us when we got here. They'd have showed up like
honest men instead of skulking around in that jungle out there to knock
out a couple of good men without so much as a by-your-leave."

"But Roberts and Sayyid were breaking the agreement--" Ellery began.

"And whose agreement?" demanded the man in the hall. "We never made no
agreement, so it's nothing but orders. It's a free world and we don't
have to take no such orders from anybody--on Earth or here. We'll go
where we please and stay where we please."

       *       *       *       *       *

Clyde Ellery was annoyed, but he tried not to show it. A glance at the
other council members showed him they shared his reaction. "What do you
propose we do about it?" he asked the red-headed man.

"We don't care what you do about it," the man retorted, "but we're
going back to Earth. We know where we stand on Earth and we don't have
to worry about a bunch of savages ambushing us every time we turn
around."

"How do you intend to do this? The ships which brought us were
remote-controlled."

"We've got pilots and mechanics. We'll find some way to make the damn
things work."

"One more thing," Clyde Ellery said. "_If_ some of you wish to leave,
and _if_ the ships can be made to operate, the matter will still have
to be taken up by this council. We were duly elected to represent this
community for its best interests, and we will not permit a few unruly
characters to endanger the entire colony."

"Yeah?" the red-headed man said with a grin. He turned and looked
around the hall. "Everybody who wants to go back to Earth," he shouted,
"raise your hand, so these wise guys can see where they stand."

Almost every hand in the hall was raised.

"There's been a new election," the red-headed man said, turning back to
the council. "You boys want to come along with the rest of us, or stay
here until some Venusian cannibal decides you're fat enough to eat?"

"_Hey!_" a voice shouted from the back of the hall. "_Fire!_"

There was a red glare visible through the windows, unnoticed until now.
The crowd jammed and shoved their way out of the building, the council
following as fast as they could. Once outside, they could see the
flames leaping toward the sky as something beyond the edge of the city
burned.

The crowd ran through the streets but when they reached the limits of
Earth City they came to an abrupt halt and stared at the flames which
were taking a decision out of their hands.

The huge domed structure which housed the strange space ships was a
mass of writhing flames. The fire crackled and roared, flames twisting
upward to lick against the orange leaves of the towering trees. And the
crowd stood and watched, for they knew that there was nothing to be
done. The colony had fire-fighting equipment, but nothing that would
handle such a fire as this.

An hour later, the building was a blackened crater, and all that was
left of the space ships were smoking lumps of the strange metal. The
crowd of colonists turned and walked silently through the streets of
the untouched city.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a grimness about the Earth men the following morning. Clyde
Ellery was first aware of the new note when he awakened to hear the
plodding thump of many feet. He looked out of the window to see several
hundred men marching down the main street. Every man in the group was
armed in some crude fashion. Many carried axes and clubs, while others
hefted sledge hammers and crowbars as they marched out of the city in
the direction of the Venusian jungle. At the head of the group strode
the red-headed man, an axe gleaming brightly over his shoulder.

Clyde Ellery hurriedly dressed and sought the other council members.
Most of them had also seen the mob and were ready. Here and there
within Earth City they were able to find a small handful of men who had
not joined the others and these became the council's posse. Unarmed,
they mounted horses and rode after the crowd. None of them was quite
sure of what they could do, but felt that something had to be done.

They rode swiftly, but even so too much time had elapsed. They were
still several miles from the jungle when they saw the knot of men, the
sun glinting from the weapons they carried, move resolutely into the
green wall and vanish. As they spurred their horses forward, they heard
the distant shout of the red-headed man as he led his troops forward.
It seemed to them that the cry was cut off abruptly, and then there was
silence except for the hoofbeats and labored breathing of the horses.

As they neared the jungle, the council was greeted by a sight which
made them pull their horses up short. From the forest came the mob
of men, the red-headed man still leading them, marching with the same
vigor with which they had gone in. But the grimness had fled from their
faces, to be replaced by a relaxed friendliness. They halted as they
recognized the horsemen. The red-headed man looked up at Clyde Ellery
with an easy grin.

"Out riding, Councilor Ellery?" he asked pleasantly.

"What happened in there?" Ellery asked, nodding toward the jungle.

"Why, nothing," the red-headed man said with surprise. "Why should
anything happen?"

"What were you men doing in there?"

For a moment the red-headed man looked perplexed, his gaze shifting
from Ellery to the jungle and then back to Ellery; then his expression
cleared. "Why, me and the boys were just looking around," he said.
"Since we're going to be living here for the rest of our lives, we
thought we might as well take a look at this jungle. We figured there
might be some dangerous animals in it and if there was we ought to know
about it. But it looks like everything's okay."

The council members exchanged glances. "But what about your idea of
going back to Earth?" Clyde Ellery asked.

This time the red-headed man was really surprised. "You must be off
your rocker, councilor," he said. "We like it here."

"Well, if you were only looking around," Ellery said, "why did each of
you bring a weapon?"

The red-headed man glanced down at the axe he was carrying and frowned.
"I'll be damned if I know," he said. "It just seemed like a good idea
at the time. Well, councilor, me and the boys better be getting back to
work. We'll be seeing you."

The councilors sat on their horses and watched the man march off toward
the city with swinging strides. Then they rode silently along behind
them.

Back in Earth City, the council members quartered their horses and went
straight to the town hall, straight to the private room that served for
their council meetings.

"What do you think happened?" Clyde Ellery asked slowly.

"Seems rather obvious," Courtland Stokes said, running a hand through
his thinning hair. "They showed all the symptoms of having been
hypnotized. Apparently, the minute they entered the forest with the
intention of destruction, they were hypnotized and given a post
hypnotic block which made them completely forget their original
reactions."

"Clever, these--Venusians," said Wang Chin Kwang, privately amused at
the new usage of an old expression.

"However," Clyde Ellery said slowly, "the action of these men does
bring up something which we have pretty much ignored since we
landed--the question of our hosts. I confess I'm not too satisfied with
the explanation that they are merely a strange life form which doesn't
show itself to us because we may be prejudiced."

"Have any of you thought about that fire last night?" David Hellman
asked. "It looked as if some intelligence knew that some of us were
planning to leave and so deliberately burned the space ships."

"Yes," Stokes said dryly, "it occurred to me that the fire might be
evidence that our--hosts were determined that we stay on Venus."

"But why?" demanded Clyde Ellery. There was no answer, and for a
moment the members of the council knew the same fear of the unknown
which had been on the faces of the colonists the night before. Clyde
Ellery cleared his throat. "For the moment," he said, "it would seem
to me that our most pressing problem is one of finding some way of
communicating with our hosts and determining the exact status we are to
enjoy here. Are there any suggestions?"

There were none. After a few more pointless and nervous remarks, the
council adjourned.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the next day that they were reminded of the corncribs which had
started the whole thing. That morning Arthur Roberts, whose farm was
nearest to the jungle, went out to find a number of sheets of metal
lying in his field. They were obviously of the same material which had
been used in the space ships. Stranger still, they were of the exact
sizes to build the corncrib as Arthur Roberts had imagined it.

Most of the colonists took this as evidence of the good intentions of
their unseen hosts, but it only served to increase the uneasiness of
the council.

Two days later, they were quickly summoned by Jean-Paul Monet. Without
offering an explanation, he insisted that they again mount their horses
and ride toward the jungle. As they neared the giant wall of green,
they heard a strange thumping noise ahead of them and once more pressed
Monet for answers.

"You will soon see," he said grimly. "For two days, I have stayed in
the fields watching for the secret to the metal. Now, you will see what
I witnessed early this morning."

A few minutes later, the men reined their horses to a stop and stared
into the jungle, scarcely believing what they saw.

Near the outer edge of lush, living green, there was a huge vine. Its
creepers, almost a foot thick and covered with cup-shaped thick leaves,
seemed to enter the ground at intervals and then reappear to grow
along the top. But the Earth men soon realized that the creepers were
moving, as though growing at a tremendous rate. And each time one of
the scarlet cup-shaped leaves appeared out of the ground it dumped a
greenish lump of something on the ground. On looking closer, they saw
that the ground here was covered with the broad flat leaves of some
other plant.

Towering above this scene were a number of orange-leafed trees like
those which had surrounded the field where the space ships first
landed. As they watched, the green limbs of these trees swayed and bent
until the huge green pods were directly over the lumps cast up out
of the ground. Then, from what they had thought were seed pods, came
a gush of white fire, striking the lumps. Under that direct fire, so
strong that the horses shied from the heat a hundreds yards away, the
lumps took on a fire of their own.

From the edge of the jungle there grew long stalks with what had seemed
to be large square flowers on them. But, as the men watched, the stalks
whipped forward and the flowers descended upon the heated lumps. It
was this which was producing the thumping noise they'd heard, and each
blow from the square flowers was helping to pound the lumps into sheets
of metal.

As the men watched, the last lump of metal was cast up, heated,
flattened and cast aside. The thumping ceased, the flames died out,
and once more the jungle was a wall of exotic plants and trees swaying
gently in the breeze. If it hadn't been for the sheets of metal on the
ground, they might have imagined that what they had seen had been an
illusion. But there were a good six-dozen sheets of metal on the ground
before them.

It was Clyde Ellery who finally dismounted and approached the jungle.
The others sat on their horses and watched him. They saw him stoop to
gaze intently at the giant creeper on the ground and then step briskly
into the jungle. He did not go far, but seemed to stand there in an
attitude of listening for several minutes. Then he turned and walked
briskly back to where the others waited. He mounted his horse and
turned its head toward the distant city.

"Well?" demanded Courtland Stokes, when Ellery still said nothing.
"What happened in there?"

"Nothing," Clyde Ellery said. He seemed surprised that anyone should
think that anything had happened. "I merely looked into the jungle and
came back. After all, it was part of our agreement that we not enter
that part of the planet."

"But you stood there for several minutes," Stokes insisted.

"I'm afraid you must be wrong," Ellery said. "I believe I'm quite aware
of what I'm doing when I do it. I merely glanced into the forest to see
if there was any more metal there. The minute I saw there wasn't, I
turned around. In fact, I distinctly remember that I didn't even stop
walking."

The others exchanged glances, but said nothing more. When they reached
Earth City, they agreed to hold a meeting that afternoon and then
separated.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the time the council met, Clyde Ellery was aware that he too had
been hypnotized when he tried to enter the jungle. But he had no memory
of what had happened. It still seemed to him that he had merely
glanced into the jungle and had then retraced his steps.

The meeting was delayed because of Alexandre Spaak, who at last came
bustling in, his face tense with excitement.

"Wait until you hear this," he said in answer to the questioning looks.
"You know my house is at the edge of town, not far from the spot where
the space ships were kept? Well, this afternoon, the kids were missing.
I went looking for them and finally found them playing under those big
Venusian trees with the orange leaves. You know, the same kind of trees
we saw with flames shooting out of their pods to melt that metal? Well,
take a guess what my kids were doing?"

"What was it?" Ellery said irritably. "Don't make us play guessing
games."

"Among the foodstock my wife and I brought to Venus," Spaak said, "was
a package of marshmallows. The kids had the marshmallows on the ends of
sticks and there were little tiny flames coming out of the tree pods,
roasting them. If you remember those trees at all, you'll remember the
nearest pods were at least fifteen feet from the ground--which means
the tree had to bend its limbs down to reach the marshmallows the
children were holding."

"But how did your children control the flames?" Stokes asked. "Those
flames we saw this morning would have blasted them to ashes within
twenty feet."

"The children weren't controlling the flame," Spaak said. "The tree was
controlling the flame for the benefit of the children."

"I have a feeling," said Jean-Paul Monet, "that the colonists were
right the other night. We should leave this planet."

"How?" Wang Chin Kwang murmured.

"A minute, gentlemen," Alexandre Spaak broke in. "I believe I have
solved the mystery of our hosts." He paused and looked around at the
others. "Gentlemen, the intelligent life which invited us to this
planet is the plant life of Venus."

"Impossible!" exclaimed Stokes. "The intelligent life which invited us
here is one capable of building space ships--an engineering feet beyond
even the highly advanced technical skill of Earth. You don't mean to
say a plant could do that!"

"You forget," said Spaak, "that all of us stood in a field this morning
and watched a plant dig ore out of the ground, another plant smelt the
ore, a third plant flatten it into sheets of metal, using a fourth
plant as an anvil. After seeing that flame tree in action, there can
be no doubt that the flame trees also deliberately destroyed the space
ships when some of us were about to use them to leave Venus. No,
gentlemen, I tell you that the intelligent and dominant life on this
planet consists of trees, bushes, vines, and so on down to the smallest
plant. That, incidentally, must be the reason we were told to bring our
own plants and not to touch any of the plant life here."

"_You are right, Earth-Man._"

       *       *       *       *       *

For a moment, the thirteen men in the room sat, frozen, not daring to
look at each other. It had not been a voice speaking this time, yet
each had heard the thought within his head. As each of them realized
that all had heard it, that the thought had not been a personal
hallucination, they relaxed. Quickly, they looked around the room. But
there was no one there except themselves.

"I have been expecting this," Alexandre Spaak said. "I knew that my
theory was right--and I thought that once it was out, they might
communicate with us."

"But who--where?" gasped Stokes. "There's no one else in this room--I
mean, there isn't even a plant."

"No, but look out of the window," Spaak said. "Look at the trees lining
both sides of the street--the trees with those curling leaves which
look almost like heads--with tendrils waving from them, like antennae!"

They looked from the window, and it was true that the leaves on the
trees did look like heads. They noticed that the antennae on the leaves
of the nearest tree were all bent in the direction of their building,
even though the wind was blowing away from it.

"_Ih dien buh tso!_" exclaimed Wang Chin Kwang.

"But it's impossible, really!" said Stokes. "That space ship, all of
those records in the various languages, the clearing of the land here,
everything!"

"Even if one does accept the idea of intelligent plants," Clyde Ellery
said, "it does seem that some of the things which have happened would
be beyond the ability of--say--a tree."

_You are wrong, Earth-Man_, came the thought. _We have been the
dominant life on this planet for many thousands of years, by your
reckoning of time. Long ago, we knew there was intelligent life on the
third planet of our sun, for we could catch an occasional thought, and
we knew that your science was less advanced than our own. But we didn't
realize until much later that it was animal life which was dominant
there. At first, we found it hard to believe our senses._

"Then you did build the space ships?" Spaak asked.

_Of course. It was not difficult. The Scarlet Diggers among us dug up
the Llantl ore, even as you saw it done this morning. The Flame Tree
processed it, and the Great Pounder hammered the hull into shape._

"But how did you power the ship? What were those crimson pellets which
we saw pouring into the hopper in the ship?" Clyde Ellery asked.

_The seeds of the Flame Tree. They are a more powerful explosive than
anything known to your science._

"And the recordings?" asked Ellery.

_The seed-bearing cones of our Repeater Tree. It took many trips of our
first ship, for our message had to be made up of individual words from
your languages. We could not communicate as we are now because of the
distance._

"How did you know that we needed help?" Ellery asked.

_We felt the waves of force set up by the explosion of what you called
atomic energy. We had felt these waves before, coming from other
planets, and each time all thoughts gradually died out on those planets
and we knew that the intelligent life there had died. The last time it
happened was on the fourth planet of our sun, a long time ago._

"And you were unable to save any of them?"

_We could have saved them if we'd wished_, came the thought.

"Which seems to bring us to the most important question of all," Clyde
Ellery said with a wry smile. "Why did you save us?"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a hesitation, and then the thought came to them: _The animal
life on our planet died out because we could not, of course, permit it
to feed on us. Yet, as you must know, we needed some form of animal
life to maintain the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide necessary
to our lives. You seemed ideal for our purpose, for you could bring
with you other animal life and your undeveloped plant life to feed
yourselves._

"And you did destroy the ships so that we could not leave?"

_Of course._

For several minutes, the men looked silently at each other and
considered that which they had received.

"It's hard to accept," Clyde Ellery said to the others, "but I suppose
it's not too surprising when you stop to think about it. Even on Earth,
the actual boundaries between animals and plants were artificial, as
shown by our one-celled animal life which often couldn't be told from
a unicell plant. It was just a question of where this evolutionary
accident happened."

_Not an accident_, came the thought swiftly. _It was an accident
that plants did not become dominant upon your planet. It is logical
that we should be highest on the evolutionary scale. We are the only
non-destructive form of life there is._

"Oh, I say now!" protested Stokes.

_Think, Earth-Men. Animals are in reality a parasite upon plant life,
needing to destroy plants in order to exist. But we plants can build
our carbohydrates and proteins out of inorganic salt and so need to
destroy nothing. Can you do that, Earth-Men?_

There was a moment of silence. Clyde Ellery turned to the others. "I
suppose, in a way," he said, "they're right. Anyway, the important
thing is that we are to live out our lives on a strange planet and must
adapt ourselves to the conditions here. We mustn't forget that one of
the things which led to the destruction of Earth was our attempt to
believe that certain people--certain life forms, shall we say--were
inferior to the rest of us. We must not let that happen again.... May I
speak for all of us?"

The other twelve men looked to each other and then nodded. Clyde Ellery
turned to face the window, looking embarrassed.

"I hardly know the proper way of addressing an intelligent tree," he
began, "but you may inform the rest of the life on this planet that we
men of Earth have learned our lessons. We are quite prepared to treat
you as our equals, and to cooperate with you to our fullest extent."

There was a long moment of silence; and, when the answering thought
came, it seemed to be tinged with surprise and something which might
have been humor:

_You misunderstand. It was pointed out to you that all animal life
exists as a parasite upon plant life. In our case, unfortunately, we
need you parasites in order to live, but that does not imply special
privileges. So long as you continue to supply us with carbon dioxide
and do not attempt to destroy any of us, we are content to leave you
alone. But should you attempt to step out of your place, we will have
to take measures. Those of you who have tried to enter our part of the
planet have already experienced the weaker radiations of the one of
us which you might call an energy tree. If you persist, you will be
exposed to its full strength which will render you incapable of any
action except what is needed for your survival._ The thought softened.
_As your hosts--in a double sense, you might say--we do not like to
make a point of your inferiority, but we are sure you will understand
our present reaction if you will consider how you might have felt if
the fleas which infested your bodies, the viruses in your bloodstreams,
had offered you equality and cooperation._

The thought ceased. Outside, a heavy Venusian rain began, beating for a
second upon the roof, before sliding to the ground and sinking to the
level of thirsty roots.

Quietly the council bowed and departed.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE AMBASSADORS FROM VENUS ***

***** This file should be named 64045-0.txt or 64045-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    http://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/0/4/64045/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

