ï»¿The Project Gutenberg EBook of Witch of the Demon Seas, by A.A. Craig


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.


Title: Witch of the Demon Seas

Author: A.A. Craig

Release Date: December 14, 2020 [EBook #64049]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WITCH OF THE DEMON SEAS ***




                        WITCH of the Demon Seas

                A Novel of Alien Sorcery by A. A. CRAIG

            Guide a black galleon to the lost, fear-haunted
             Citadel of the Xanthi wizards--into the very
               jaws of Doom? Corun, condemned pirate of
            Conahur, laughed. Aye, he'd do it, and gladly.
             It would mean a reprieve from the headsman's
               axe--a few more precious moments of life
               and love ... though his lover be a witch!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Planet Stories January 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Khroman the Conqueror, Thalassocrat of Achaera, stood watching his
guards bring up the captured pirates. He was a huge man, his hair and
square-cut beard jet-black despite middle age, the strength of his
warlike youth still in his powerful limbs. He wore a plain white tunic
and purple-trimmed cloak; the only sign of kingship was the golden
chaplet on his head and the signet ring on one finger. In the gaudy
crowd of slender, chattering courtiers, he stood out with a brutal
contrast.

"So they've finally captured him," he rumbled. "So we're finally rid
of Corun and his sea-going bandits. Maybe now the land will have some
peace."

"What will you do with them, sire?" asked Shorzon the Sorcerer.

Khroman shrugged heavy shoulders. "I don't know. Pirates are usually
fed to the erinyes at the games, I suppose, but Corun deserves
something special."

"Public torture, perhaps, sire? It could be stretched over many days."

"No, you fool! Corun was the bravest enemy Achaera ever had. He
deserves an honorable death and a decent tomb. Not that it matters
much, but--"

Shorzon exchanged a glance with Chryseis, then looked back toward the
approaching procession.

       *       *       *       *       *

The city Tauros was built around a semicircular bay, a huge expanse of
clear green water on whose surface floated ships from halfway round the
world--the greatest harbor for none knew how many empty sea-leagues,
capital of Achaera which, with its trade and its empire of entire
archipelagoes, was the mightiest of the thalassocracies. Beyond the
fortified sea walls at the end of the bay, the ocean swelled mightily
to the clouded horizon, gray and green and amber. Within, the hulls and
sails of ships were a bright confusion up to the stone docks.

The land ran upward from the bay, and Tauros was built on the hills, a
tangle of streets between houses that ranged from the clay huts of the
poor to the marble villas of the great. Beyond the city walls on the
landward side, the island of Achaera lifted still more steeply, a gaunt
rocky country with a few scattered farms and herds. Her power came all
from the sea.

A broad straight road lined with sphinxes ran straight from the harbor
up to the palace, which stood on the highest hill in the city. At its
end, wide marble stairs lifted toward the fragrant imperial gardens in
which the court stood.

Folk swarmed about the street, mobs straining to see the soldiers as
they led their captives toward the palace. The word that Corun of
Conahur, the most dangerous of the pirates, had finally been taken had
driven merchants to ecstasy and brought insurance rates tumbling down.
There was laughter in the throng, jeers for the prisoners, shouts for
the king.

Not entirely so, however. Most of the crowd were, of course, Achaerans,
a slim dark-haired folk clad generally in a light tunic and sandals,
proud of their ancient might and culture. They were loudest in
shouting at the robbers. But there were others who stood silent and
glum-faced, not daring to voice their thoughts but making them plain
enough. Tall, fair men from Conahur itself, galled by Achaeran rule;
fur-clad barbarians from Norriki, blue-skinned savages from Umlotu,
with a high professional regard for their fellow pirate; slaves from
a hundred islands, who had not ceased dreaming of home and remembered
that Corun had been in the habit of freeing slaves when he captured a
ship or a town. Others might be neutral, coming from too far away to
care, for Corun had only attacked Achaeran galleys; the black men from
misty Orzaban, the copper-colored Chilatzis, the yellow wizards from
mysterious Hiung-nu.

The soldiers marched their prisoners rapidly up the street. They were
mercenaries, blue Umlotuans in the shining corselets, greaves, and
helmets of the Achaeran forces, armed with the short sword and square
shield of Achaera as well as the long halberds which were their special
weapon. When the mob came too close, they swung the butts out with
bone-snapping force.

The captive pirates were mostly from Conahur, though there were a
number of other lands represented. They stumbled wearily along, clad in
a few rags, weighted down hand and foot by their chains. Only one of
them, the man in the lead, walked erect, but he strode along with the
arrogance of a conqueror.

"That must be Corun himself, there in the front of them," said Chryseis.

"It is," nodded Shorzon.

       *       *       *       *       *

They moved forward for a better look. Imperceptibly, the court shrank
from them. Khroman's advisor and daughter were feared in Tauros.

Shorzon was tall and lean and dry, as if the Heaven-Fire beyond the
eternal clouds had fallen on him and seared all moisture out of the
gaunt body. He had the noble features of the old Achaeran aristocracy,
but his eyes were dark and sunken and smoldering with strange fires.
Even in the warmth of midday, he wore a black robe falling to his feet,
and his white beard streamed over it. Folk knew that he had learned
sorcery in Hiung-nu, and it was whispered that for all Khroman's
brawling strength it was Shorzon who really dominated the realm.

Khroman had married Shorzon's daughter--none knew who her mother had
been, though it was thought she was a witch from Hiung-nu. She had not
lived long after giving birth to Chryseis, whose grandfather thus came
to have much of her upbringing in his hands. Rumor had it that she was
as much a witch as he a warlock.

Certainly she could be cruel and ungovernable. But she had a strange
dark beauty over her that haunted men; there were more who would die
for her than one could readily count ... and, it was said, _had_ died
after a night or two.

She was tall and lithe, with night-black hair that streamed to her
waist when unbound. Her eyes were huge and dark in a face of coldly
chiseled loveliness, and the full red mouth denied the austere,
goddess-like fineness of her countenance. Today she had not affected
the heavy gold and jewels of the court; a white robe hung in dazzling
folds about her--and there might as well not have been another woman
present.

The prisoners came through the palace gates, which clashed shut behind
them. Up the stairs they went and into the fragrance of green trees and
bushes, blooming plants, and leaping fountains that was the garden.
There they halted, and the court buzzed about them like flies around a
dead animal.

Khroman stepped up to Corun. "Greeting," he said, and there was no
mockery in his voice.

"Greeting," replied the pirate in the same even tones.

They measured each other, the look of two strong men who understood
what they were about. Corun was as big as Khroman, a fair-skinned giant
of a man in chains and rags. Weather-bleached yellow hair hung to his
shoulders from a haughtily lifted head, and his fire-blue eyes were
unwavering on the king's. His face was lean, long-jawed, curve-nosed,
hardened by bitterness and suffering and desperate unending battle. A
chained erinye could not have looked more fiercely on his captors.

"It's taken a long time to catch you, Corun," said Khroman. "You've led
us a merry chase. Once I almost had the pleasure of meeting you myself.
It was when you raided Serapolis--remember? I happened to be there, and
gave chase in one of the war-galleys. But we never did catch you."

"One of the ships did." Corun's voice was strangely soft for so big a
man. "It didn't come back, as you may recall."

"How did they finally catch you?" asked Khroman.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corun shrugged, and the chains about his wrists rattled. "You already
know as much as I care to talk about," he said wearily. "We sailed
into Iliontis Bay and found a whole fleet waiting for us. Someone must
finally have spied out our stronghold." Khroman nodded, and Corun
shrugged a shoulder: "They blocked off our retreat, so we just fought
till everyone was dead or captured. These half-hundred men are all who
live. Unfortunately, I was knocked out during the battle and woke up to
find myself a prisoner. Otherwise--" his blue gaze raked the court with
a lashing contempt--"I could be peacefully feeding fish now, instead of
your witless fish-eyes."

"I won't drag out the business for you, Corun," said Khroman. "Your men
will have to be given to the games, of course, but you can be decently
and privately beheaded."

"Thanks," said the pirate, "but I'll stay with my men."

Khroman stared at him in puzzlement. "But why did you ever do it?"
he asked finally. "With your strength and skill and cunning, you
could have gone far in Achaera. We take mercenaries from conquered
provinces, you know. You could have gotten Achaeran citizenship in
time."

"I was a prince of Conahur," said Corun slowly. "I saw my land invaded
and my folk taken off as slaves. I saw my brothers hacked down at the
battle of Lyrr, my sister taken as concubine by your admiral, my father
hanged, my mother burned alive when they fired the old castle. They
offered me amnesty because I was young and they wanted a figurehead. So
I swore an oath of fealty to Achaera, and broke it the first chance I
got. It was the only oath I ever broke, and still I am proud of it. I
sailed with pirates until I was big enough to master my own ships. That
is enough of an answer."

"It may be," said Khroman slowly. "You realize, of course, that the
conquest of Conahur took place before I came to the throne? And that I
certainly couldn't negate it, in view of the Thalassocrat's duty to his
own country, and had to punish its incessant rebelliousness?"

"I don't hold anything against you yourself, Khroman," said Corun with
a tired smile. "But I'd give my soul to the nether fires for the chance
to pull your damned palace down around your ears!"

"I'm sorry it has to end this way," said the king. "You were a brave
man. I'd like to drain many beakers of wine with you on the other side
of death." He signed to the guards. "Take him away."

"One moment, sire," said Shorzon. "Is it your intention to lock all
these pirates in the same dungeon cell?"

"Why--I suppose so. Why not?"

"I do not trust their captain. Chained and imprisoned, he is still a
menace. I think he has certain magical techniques--"

"That's a lie!" spat Corun. "I never needed your stinking woman's
tricks to flatten the likes of Achaera!"

"I would not leave him with his men," advised Shorzon imperturbably.
"Best he be given his own cell, alone. I know a place."

"Well--well, let it be so." Khroman waved a hand in dismissal.

As Shorzon turned to lead the guards off, he traded a long glance with
Chryseis. Her eyes remained hooded as she looked after the departing
captives.


                                  II

The cell was no longer than a man's height, a dripping cave hewed
out of the rock under the palace foundations. Corun crouched on the
streaming floor in utter darkness. The chains which they had locked to
ringbolts in the wall clashed when he stirred.

And this was how it ended, he thought bitterly. The wild career of the
exiled conqueror, the heave and surge of ships under the running waves,
the laughter of comrades and the clamor of swords and the thrum of wind
in the rigging, had come to this--one man hunched in a loneliness and
darkness like a colder womb, waiting in timeless murk for the day when
they would drag him out to be torn by beasts for the amusement of fools.

They fed him at intervals, a slave bringing a bowl of prison swill
while a spear-armed guard stood well out of reach and watched.
Otherwise he was alone. He could not even hear the voices of other
captives; there was only the slow dripping of water and the harsh tones
of iron links. The cell must lie below even the regular dungeons, far
down in the very bowels of the island.

Vague images floated across his mind--the high cliffs about Iliontis
Bay, the great flowers blooming with sullen fires in the jungle beyond
the beach, the slim black corsair galleys at anchor. He remembered
the open sky, the eternally clouded sky under which blew the long wet
winds, out of which spilled rain and lightning and grew the eerie blue
of dusk. He had often wondered what lay beyond those upper clouds.

Now and then, he remembered, one could see the vague disc of the
Heaven-Fire, and he had heard of times when incredibly violent storms
opened a brief rift in the high cloud layers to let through a shaft of
searing brilliance at whose touch water boiled and the earth burst into
flame. It made him think of the speculations of Conahur's philosophers,
that the world was really a globe around which the Heaven-Fire swung,
bringing day and night. Some had gone so far as to imagine that it was
the world which did the moving, that the Heaven-Fire was a ball of
flame in the middle of creation about which all other things revolved.

But Conahur was in chains now, he remembered, its folk bowed to the
will of Achaera's greedy proconsuls, its art and philosophy the idle
playthings of the conquerors. The younger generation was growing
up with an idea that it might be best to yield, to become absorbed
into the thalassocracy and so eventually gain equal status with the
Achaerans.

But Corun could not forget the great flames flapping against a
wind-torn night sky, the struggling forms at ropes' ends swaying from
trees, the long lines of chained people stumbling hopelessly to the
slave galleys under Achaeran lashes. Perhaps he had carried the grudge
too long--no, by Breannach Brannor! There had been a family which was
no longer. That was grudge enough for a lifetime.

A lifetime, he thought sardonically, which wouldn't be very much
protracted now.

       *       *       *       *       *

He sighed wearily in the stinking gloom of the cell. There were
too many memories crowding in. The outlaw years had been hard and
desperate, but they'd been good ones too. There had been song and
laughter and comradeship and gigantic deeds over an endless waste of
waters--the long blue hush of twilight, the soft black nights, the
gray days with a sea running gray and green and gold under squalls of
rain, the storms roaring and raging, the eager leap of a ship--frenzy
of battle at the taking of town or galley, death so close one could
almost hear the beat of black wings, orgy of loot and vengeance--the
pirate town, grass huts under jungle trees, stuffed with treasure, full
of brawling bawdy life, the scar-faced swaggering men and the lusty
insolent women, ruddy fire-light hammering back the night while the
surf thundered endlessly along the beach--

Well, all things came to a close. And while he would have wished a
different sort of death for himself, he didn't have long to wait in
this misery.

Something stirred, far down the narrow corridor, and he caught the
flickering glow of a torch. Scowling, he stood up, stooped under
the low ceiling. Who in all the hells was this? It was too soon for
feeding, unless his time sense had gone completely awry, and he didn't
think the games could have been prepared in the few days since his
arrival.

They came up to the entrance of the cell and stood looking in by the
guttering red torchlight. A snarl twisted Corun's lips. Shorzon and
Chryseis--"Of all the scum of Achaera," he growled, "I had to be
inflicted with you."

"This is no time for insolence," said the sorcerer coldly. He lifted
the torch higher. The red light threw his face into blood-splashed
shadow. His eyes were pits of darkness in which smoldered two embers.
His black robe blended with the surrounding shadow, his face and hands
seemed to float disembodied in the dank air.

Corun's eyes traveled to Chryseis, and in spite of the hate that burned
in him he had to admit she was perhaps the loveliest woman he had ever
seen. Tall and slim and lithe, moving with the soundless grace of a
Sanduvian pherax, the dark hair sheening down past the chill sculptured
beauty of her marble-white face, she returned his blue stare with eyes
of dark flame. She was dressed as if for action--a brief tunic that
left arms and legs bare, a short black cloak, and high buskins--but
jewels still blazed at throat and wrists.

Behind her padded a lean shadow at sight of which Corun stiffened. He
had heard of Chryseis' tame erinye. Folk said the devil-beast had found
a harder heart in the witch's breast and yielded to her; some said less
mentionable things.

The slitted green eyes flared at Corun and the cruel muzzle opened in a
fanged yawn. "Back, Perias," said Chryseis evenly.

Her voice was low and sweet, almost a caress. It seemed strange that
such a voice had spoken the rituals of black sorcery and ordered the
flaying alive of a thousand helpless Issarian prisoners and counseled
some of the darkest intrigues in Achaera's bloody history.

She said to Corun: "This is a fine end for all your noble thoughts, man
of Conahur."

"At least," he answered, "you credit me with having had them. Which is
more than I'd say for you."

       *       *       *       *       *

The red lips curved in a cynical smile. "Human purposes have a habit of
ending this way. The mighty warrior, the scourge of the seas, ends in
a foul prison cell waiting for an unimaginative death. The old epics
lied, didn't they? Life isn't quite the glorious adventure that fools
think it to be."

"It could be, if it weren't for your sort." Wearily: "Go away, won't
you? If you won't even let me talk with my old comrades, you can at
least spare me your own company."

"We are here with a definite purpose," said Shorzon. "We offer you
life, freedom--and the liberation of Conahur!"

He shook his tawny head. "It isn't even funny."

"No, no, I mean it," said Chryseis earnestly. "Shorzon had you put in
here alone not out of malice, but simply to make this private talk
possible. You can help us with a project so immeasurably greater than
your petty quarrels that anything you can ask in return will be as
nothing. And you are the one man who can do so.

"I tell you this so that, realizing you have some kind of bargaining
position, you will meet as us as equal to equal, not as prisoner to
captor. If you agree to aid us, you will be released this instant."

With a sudden flame within him, Corun tautened his huge body. O gods--O
almighty gods beyond the clouds--if it were true--!

His voice shook: "What do you want?"

"Your help in a desperate venture," said Chryseis. "I tell you frankly
that we may well all die in it. But at least you will die as a free
man--and if we succeed, all the world may be ours."

"What is it?" he asked hoarsely.

"I cannot tell you everything now," said Shorzon. "But the story has
long been current that you once sailed to the lairs of the Xanthi, the
Sea Demons, and returned alive. Is it true?"

"Aye." Corun stiffened, with sudden alarm trembling in his nerves.
"Aye, by great good luck I came back. But they are not a race for
humans to traffic with."

"I think the powers I can summon will match theirs," said Shorzon. "We
want you to guide us to their dwellings and teach us the language on
the way, as well as whatever else you know about them. When we return,
you may go where you choose. And if we get their help, we will be able
to set Conahur free soon afterward."

Corun shook his head. "It's nothing good that you plan," he said
slowly. "No one would approach the Xanthi for any good purpose."

"You did, didn't you?" chuckled the wizard dryly. "If you want the
truth, we are after their help in seizing the government of Achaera, as
well as certain knowledge they have."

"If you succeeded," argued Corun stubbornly, "why should you then let
Conahur go?"

"Because power over Achaera is only a step to something too far beyond
the petty goals of empire for you to imagine," said Shorzon bleakly.
"You must decide now, man. If you refuse, you die."

Chryseis moved one slim hand and the erinye padded forward on
razor-clawed feet. The leathery wings were folded back against the
long black body, the barbed tail lashed hungrily and a snarl vibrated
in the lean throat. "If you say no," came the woman's sweet voice,
"Perias will rip your guts out. That will at least afford us an amusing
spectacle for our trouble." Then she smiled, the dazzling smile which
had driven men to their doom ere this. "But if you say yes," she
whispered, "a destiny waits for you that kings would envy. You are a
strong man, Corun. I like strong men--"

The corsair looked into the warm dark light of her eyes, and back to
the icy glare of the devil-beast. No unarmed man had ever survived the
onslaught of an erinye--and he was chained.

At thought of returning to the dark home of the Xanthi, he shuddered.
But life was still wondrous sweet, and--once free to move about, he
might still have some chance of escape or even of overpowering them.

Or--who knew? He wondered, with a brief giddiness, if the dark witch
before him could be as evil as her enemies said. Strong and ruthless,
yes--but so was he. When he learned the full truth about her soaring
plans, he might even decide they were right.

In any case--to live! To die, if he must, under the sky!

"I'll go," he said hoarsely. "I'll go with you."

The low exultant laughter of Chryseis sang in the flare-lit gloom.

Shorzon came up and took a key from his belt. For a bare moment, the
thought of snapping that skinny neck raged through Corun's mind.

The magician smiled grimly. "Don't try it," he said. "As a small proof
of what we can do--"

Suddenly he was not there. It was a monster from the jungles of Umlotu
standing in the cell with Corun, a scaled beast that hissed at him with
grinning jaws and spewed poison on the floor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sorcery! Corun shrank back, a chill of fear striking even his steely
heart. Shorzon resumed human shape and wordlessly unlocked the chains.
They fell away and Corun stumbled out into the corridor.

The erinye snarled and slipped closer. Chryseis laid a hand on the
beast's head, checking that gliding rush as if with a leash. Her smile
and the faint sweet scent of her hair were dizzying.

"Come," she said. One hand slipped between his own fingers and the cool
touch seemed to burn him.

Shorzon led the way, down a long sloping tunnel where only the
streaming torch-flames had life. Their footsteps echoed hollowly in the
wet black length of it.

"We go at once," he said. "When Khroman learns of your escape, all
Tauros will be after us. But it will be too late then. We sail swiftly
tonight."

Sail--whither?

"What of my men?" asked Corun.

"They're lost, I'm afraid, unless Khroman spares them until we get
back," said Chryseis. "But we saved you. I'm glad of that."

A faint smell of fresh salty air blew up the tunnel. It must open on
the sea, thought Corun. He wondered how many passages riddled the depth
under Tauros.

They came out, finally, on a narrow beach under the looming western
cliffs. The precipices climbed into the utter dark of night, reaching
into the unseen sky. Before them lay open sea, swirling with
phosphorescence. Corun drew deep lungfulls of air. Salt and seaweed
and wet wild wind--sand under his feet, sky overhead, a woman beside
him--by the gods, it was good to be alive!

A galley was moored against a tiny pier. By the light of bobbing
torches, Corun's mariner's eye surveyed her. She was built along the
same lines as his own ship, a lean black vessel with one square sail;
open-decked save at stem and stern, rower's benches lining the sides
with a catwalk running between. There would be quarters for the men
under the poop and forecastle decks, supplies in the hold beneath. A
cabin was erected near the waist, apparently for officers, and there
was a ballista mounted in the bows--otherwise no superstructure. A
carved sea monster reared up for figurehead, and the sternpost curved
back to make its tail. He read the name on the bows: _Briseia_. Strange
that that dark vessel should bear a girl's name.

About a fifty-man capacity, he judged. And she would be fast.

The crew were getting aboard--they must have come down the cliffs
along some narrow trail. They were all Umlotuan blues, he noticed, a
cutthroat gang if ever he saw one but silent and well disciplined.
It was shrewd to take only the mercenary warriors along; they had no
patriotic interest in what happened to Achaera, and their reckless
courage was legendary.

A burly one-eyed officer came up and saluted. "All set, sir," he
reported.

"Good," nodded Shorzon. "Captain Imazu, this is our guide, Captain
Corun."

"The raider, eh?" Imazu chuckled and shook hands in the manner of the
barbarians. "Well, we could hardly have a better one, I'm sure. Glad
to know you, Corun."

The pirate murmured polite phrases. But he decided that Imazu was a
likeable chap, and wondered what had led him to take service under
anyone with Shorzon's reputation.

They went aboard. "The Sea of Demons lies due north," said Shorzon. "Is
that the right way to sail?"

"For the time being," nodded Corun. "When we get closer, I'll be able
to tell you more exactly."

"Then you may as well wash and rest," said Chryseis. "You need both."
Her smile was soft in the flickering red light.

Corun entered the cabin. It was divided into three
compartments--apparently Imazu slept with his men, or perhaps on deck
as many men preferred. His own tiny room was clean, sparsely furnished
with a bunk and a washbowl. He cleaned himself eagerly and put on the
fresh tunic laid out for him.

When he came back on deck the ship was already under way. A strong
south wind was blowing, filling the dark sail, and the _Briseia_ surged
forward under its thrust. The phosphorescence shone around her hull and
out on the rolling waters. Behind, the land faded into the night.

He'd certainly been given no chance to escape, he thought. Barring
miracles, he had to go through with it now--at least until they reached
the Sea of Demons, after which anything might happen.

He shivered a little, wondering darkly whether he had done right,
wondering what their mission was and what the world's fate was to be as
a result of it.

Chryseis slipped quietly up to stand beside him. The erinye crouched
down nearby, his baleful eyes never leaving the man.

"Outward bound," she said, and laughter was gay in her voice.

He said nothing, but stared ahead into the night.

"You'd better sleep, Corun," she said. "You're tired now, and you'll
need all your strength later." She laid a hand on his arm, and laughed
aloud. "It will be an interesting voyage, to say the least."

Rather! he thought with wry humor. It occurred to him that the trip
might even have its pleasant aspects.

"Goodnight, Corun," she said, and left him.

Presently he went back to his room. Sleep was long in coming, and
uneasy when it did arrive.


                                  III

When he came out on deck in the early morning, there was only a gray
emptiness of waters out to the gray horizon. They must have left the
whole Achaeran archipelago well behind them and be somewhere in the
Zurian Sea now.

There was a smell of rain in the air, and the ship ran swiftly before
a keening wind over long white-maned rollers. Corun let the tang of
salt and moisture and kelp, the huge restless vista of bounding waves,
the creak and thrum of the ship and the thundering surge of the ocean,
swell luxuriously up within him, the simple animal joy of being at
home. The sea was his home now, he realized vaguely; he had been on it
so long that it was his natural environment--his, as much as that of
the laridae wheeling on white wings in the cloud-flying heavens.

He looked over the watch. It seemed to be well handled--the sailors
knew their business. There were armored guards at bow and stern, and
the rest--clad in the plain loincloth of ordinary seamen the world
over--were standing by the sail, swabbing the decks, making minor
repairs and otherwise occupying themselves. Those off duty were
lounging or sleeping well out of the watch's way. The helmsman kept his
eye on the compass and held the tiller with a practiced hand--good,
good.

Captain Imazu padded up to him on bare feet. The Umlotuan wore helmet
and corselet, had a sword at his side, and carried the whip of
authority in one gnarled blue hand. His scarred, one-eyed face cracked
in a smile. "Good morning to you, Captain Corun," he said politely.

The Conahurian nodded with an amiability he had not felt for a long
time. "The ship is well handled," he said.

"Thanks. I'm about the only Umlotuan who's ever skippered anything
bigger than a war-canoe, I suppose, but I was in the Achaeran fleet for
a long time." Again the hideous but disarming smile. "I nearly met you
professionally once or twice before, but you always showed us a clean
pair of heels. Judging from what happened to ships that did have the
misfortune to overhaul you, I'm just as glad of it." He gestured to the
tiny galley below the poop deck. "How about some breakfast?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Over food which was better than most to be had aboard ship, they
fell into professional talk. Like all captains, Imazu was profoundly
interested in the old and seemingly insoluble problem of finding an
accurate position. "Dead reckoning just won't do," he complained.
"Men's estimates always differ, no matter how good they may be. There
isn't even a decent map to be had anywhere."

Corun mentioned the efforts of theorists in Achaera, Conahur, and
other civilized states to use the Heaven-Fire's altitude to determine
position north and south of a given line. Imazu was aware of their
work, but regarded it as of little practical value. "You just don't see
it often enough," he objected. "And most of the crew would consider it
the worst sort of impiety to go aiming an instrument at it. That's one
reason, I suppose, why Shorzon shipped only Umlotuans. We don't worship
the Heaven-Fire--our gods all live below the clouds." He cut himself a
huge quid of liangzi and stuffed it into his capacious mouth. "Anyway,
it doesn't give you east and west position."

"The philosophers who think the world is round say we could solve that
problem by making an accurate timepiece," said Corun.

"I know. But it's a lot of gas, if you ask me. A sand-glass or a
water-clock can only tell time so close and no closer, and those
mechanical gadgets they've built are worse yet. I knew an old skipper
from Norriki once who kept a joss in his cabin and got his position in
dreams from it. Only had one wreck in his life." Imazu grinned. "Of
course, he drowned then."

"Look," said Corun suddenly, "do you know where the hell we're going,
and why?"

"To the Sea of Demons is all they told me. No reason given." Imazu
studied Corun with his sharp black eye. "You don't know either, eh?
I've a notion that most of us won't live to find out."

"I'm surprised that any crew could be made to go there without a
mutiny."

"This gang of bully boys is only frightened of Shorzon and his witch
granddaughter. They--" Imazu shut up. Looking around, Corun saw the two
approaching.

In the morning light, Chryseis did not seem the luring devil-woman
of the night. She moved with easy grace across the rolling deck, the
wind blowing her tunic and her long black hair in careless billows,
and there was a girlish joy and eagerness in her. The pirate's heart
stumbled and began to race.

She chattered gaily of nothing while she and the old man ate. Shorzon
remained silent until he was through, then said curtly to the two men:
"Come into the cabin with us."

They filled Corun's tiny room, sitting on bunk and floor. Shorzon said
slowly, "We may as well begin now to learn what you know, Corun. What
is the truth about your voyage to the Xanthi?"

"It was several seasons ago," replied the corsair. "I got the thought
you seem to have had, that possibly I could enlist their help against
my enemies." He smiled mirthlessly. "I learned better."

"What do we know of them, exactly?" said Shorzon methodically. He
ticked the points off on his lean fingers. "They are an amphibious
non-human race dwelling in the Sea of Demons, which is said to grow
grass so that ships become tangled there and never escape."

"Not so," said Corun. "There's kelp on the surface, but you can sail
right through it. I think the Sea is just a dead region of water around
which the great ocean currents move."

"I know," said Shorzon impatiently, and resumed his summary:
"Generations ago, the Xanthi, of whose presence men had only been
vaguely aware before, fell upon all the islands in their sea and slew
the people living there. They had great numbers, as well as tamed sea
monsters and unknown powers of sorcery, so that no one could stand
against them. Since then, they have not gone beyond their borders,
but they ruthlessly destroy all human vessels venturing inside. King
Phidion III of Achaera sent a great fleet to drive the Xanthi from
their stolen territory. Not one ship returned. Men now shun the whole
region as one accursed."

Imazu nodded. "There's a sailor's legend that the souls of the damned
go to the Xanthi," he offered.

Shorzon gave him an exasperated look. "I'm only interested in facts,"
he said coldly. "What do you know, Corun?"

"I know what you just said, as who doesn't?" answered the Conahurian.
"But I think they must have limits to their powers, and be reasonable
creatures--but the limits are far beyond man's, and their reason is not
as ours.

"I didn't try an invasion, of course. I took one small fast boat manned
with picked volunteers and waited outside the Sea for a storm that
would blow me into it. When that came, we ran before it--fast! In the
rain and wind and waves, I figured we could get undetected far into
their borders. So, it seemed, we could, and in fact we made it almost
to the largest island inside. Then they came at us.

"They were riding cetaraea, and driving sea serpents before them. They
had spears and bows and swords, and there were hundreds of them. Any
one of the snakes could have smashed our boat. We ran for land and
barely made it.

"We hadn't come to fight, so we held up our hands as the Xanthi leaped
ashore and wondered if they'd just hack us down. But, as I'd hoped,
they wanted to know what we were there for. So they took us to the
black castle on the island."

       *       *       *       *       *

Momentarily Corun was cold as the memory of that wet dark place of evil
shuddered through his mind. "I can't tell you much about it. They have
great powers of sorcery, and the place seemed somehow unreal, never the
same--always wrong, always with something horrible just beyond vision
in the shadows. I remember the whole time as if it were a dream.
There were treasures beyond counting. I saw gold and jewels from the
sea bottom, mixed in with human skulls and the figureheads of drowned
ships. The light was dim and blue, and there was always fog, and noises
for which we had no name hooting out in the gloom. It stank, with the
vile fishy smell they have. And the walls seemed to have a watery
unreality, as I said, shifting and fading like smoke. You could smell
sorcery in the very air of that place.

"They kept us there for many ten-days. We'd brought rich gifts, of
course, which they accepted ungraciously, and they housed us in a
dungeon under guard. They didn't feed us so badly, if you like a steady
fish diet. And they taught us their language."

"How does it sound?" asked Chryseis.

"I can't make it come out right. No human throat can. Something like
this--" They stiffened at the chill hissing that slithered from Corun's
lips. "It has words for things I never did understand, and it lacks
many of the commonest human words--fear, joy, hope, adventure--" His
glance slid to Chryseis--"love--"

"Do they have a word for hate?" asked Shorzon.

"Oh, yes," Corun grinned without humor. After a moment he went on:
"They wanted to know more of the outside world. That was why they
spared our lives. When we knew the language well enough, they began
to question us. _How_ they questioned us! It got to be torture, those
unending days of answering the things that hissed and gabbled at us
in those shadowy rooms. It was like a nightmare, where mad happenings
go on without ever ending. Politics, science, philosophy, art,
geography--they wanted to know it all. They pumped us dry of knowledge.
When we came to something they didn't understand, such as--love,
say--they went back and forth over the same ground, over and over
again, until we thought we'd go crazy. And at last they'd give up in
bafflement. I think they believe humans to be mad.

"I made my offer, of course: the loot of Achaera in exchange for the
freedom of Conahur. They--I might almost say they laughed. Finally
they answered in scorn that they could take whatever they wanted, the
whole world if need be, without my help."

Shorzon's eyes glittered. "Did you find out anything of their powers?"
he asked eagerly.

"A little. They put any human magician to shame, of course. I saw them
charm sea monsters to death just to eat them. I saw them working on a
new building on the island--they planted a little package somewhere,
and set fire to it, and great stones leaped into the air with a bang
like thunder. I saw their cetaraea cavalry, their tamed war-snakes--oh,
yes, they have more powers than I could name. And their numbers must
be immense. They live on the sea bottom, you know--that is, their
commoners do. The leaders have strongholds on land as well. They farm
both sea and land, and have great smithies on the islands.

"Well, in the end they let us go. They were going to put us to death
for our trespass, I think, but I did some fast talking. I told them
that we could carry word of their strength back to humans and overawe
our race with it, so that if they ever wanted to collect tribute or
something of the sort, they'd never have to fight for it. Probably that
carried less weight than the fact that we had, after all, done no harm
and been of some use. They had no logical reason to kill us--so they
didn't." Corun smiled grimly. "We were a pretty tough crew, prepared
to take a few Xanthi to death with us even if we were disarmed. Their
killing-charms seem to work only on animals. That was another reason to
spare us.

"One of their wizards was for having me, at least, slain. He said
he'd had a prevision of my return with ruin in my wake. But the
others--laughed?--at him, at the very thought of a human's being
dangerous to them. Moreover, they pointed out, if that was to be the
case then there was nothing they could do about it; they seem to
believe in a fixed destiny. But the idea amused them so much that it
was still another reason for letting us go." Corun shrugged. "So we
sailed away. That's all. And never till now did I have any smallest
thought of returning."

He added bleakly after a moment when silence had been heavy: "They have
all they want to know from my visit. There will be no reason for them
to spare us this time."

"I think there will," said Chryseis.

"There'd better be," muttered Imazu.

"You can start teaching us their language," said Shorzon. "It might not
be a bad idea for you to learn too, Imazu. The more who can talk to
them, the better."

The Umlotuan made a wry face. "Another tongue to learn! By the topknot
of Mwanzi, why can't the world settle on one and end this babble!"

"The poor interpreters would starve to death," smiled Chryseis.

She took Corun's arm. "Come, my buccaneer, let's go up on deck for a
while. There's always time to learn words."

       *       *       *       *       *

They found a quiet spot on the forecastle deck, and sat down against
the rail. The erinye settled his long body beside Chryseis and
watched Corun with sleepy malevolence, but he was hardly aware of
the devil-beast. It was Chryseis, Chryseis, dark sweet hair and dark
lambent eyes, utter loveliness of face and form, singing golden voice
and light warm touch and--

"You are a strange man, Corun," she said softly. "What are you thinking
now?"

"Oh--nothing." He smiled crookedly. "Nothing."

"I don't believe that. You have too many memories."

Almost without knowing it, he found himself telling her of his life,
the long terrible struggle against overwhelming power, the bitterness
and loneliness, the death of comrades one by one--and the laughter and
triumphs and wild exultance of it, the faring into unknown seas and the
dicing with fate and the strong, close bonds of men against the world.
He mused wistfully about a girl who was gone--but her bright image was
strangely fading in his heart now, for it was Chryseis who was beside
him.

"It has been a hard life," she said at the end. "It took a giant of a
man to endure it." She smiled, a small closed smile that made her look
strangely young. "I wonder what you must think of this--sailing with
your sworn foes to the end of the world on an unknown mission."

"You're not my foe!" he blurted.

"No--never your enemy, Corun!" she exclaimed. "We have been on opposite
sides before--let it not be thus from this moment. I tell you that the
purpose of this voyage, which you shall soon know, is--good. Great and
good as the savagery of man has never known before. You know the old
legend--that someday the Heaven-Fire will shine through opening clouds
not as a destroying flame but as the giver of life--that men will see
light in the sky even at night--that there will be peace and justice
for all mankind? I think that day may be dawning, Corun."

He sat dumbly, bewildered. She was not evil--she was not evil--It was
all he knew, but it sang within him.

Suddenly she laughed and sprang to her feet. "Come on!" she cried.
"I'll race you around the ship!"


                                  IV

Rain and wind came, a lightning-shot squall in which the _Briseia_
wallowed and bucked and men strained at oars and pumps. Toward evening
it was over, the sea stilled and the lower clouds faded so that they
saw the great dull-red disc of the Heaven-Fire through the upper
clouds, sinking into the western sea. There was almost a flat calm, the
glassy water was ruffled only by a faint breeze which half filled the
sail and sent the galley sliding slowly and noiselessly northward.

"Man the oars," directed Shorzon.

"Give the men a chance to rest tonight, sir," begged Imazu. "They've
all worked hard today. We can row all the faster tomorrow if we must."

"No time to spare," snapped the wizard.

"Yes, there is," said Corun flatly. "Let the men rest, Imazu."

Shorzon gave him a baleful glance. "You forget your position aboard."

Corun bristled. "I think I'm just beginning to remember it," he
answered with metal in his voice.

Chryseis laid a hand on her grandfather's arm. "He's right," she said.
"So is Imazu. It would be needless cruelty to make the sailors work
tonight, and they will be better fitted by a night's rest."

"Very well," said Shorzon sullenly. He went into his room and slammed
the door. Presently Chryseis bade the men goodnight and went to her
quarters with the erinye trotting after.

Corun's eyes followed her through the deepening blue dusk. In that
mystic light, the ship was a shadowy half-real background, a dimness
beyond which the sea swirled in streamers of cold white radiance.

"She's a strange woman," said Imazu. "I don't understand her."

"Nor I," admitted Corun. "But I know now her enemies have foully lied
about her."

"I'm not so sure about that--" As the Conahurian turned with a dark
frown, Imazu added quickly, "Oh, well, I'm probably wrong. I never had
much sight of her, you know."

They wandered up on the poop deck in search of a place to sit. It was
deserted save for the helmsman by the dimly glowing binnacle, a deeper
shadow in the thick blue twilight. Sitting back against the taffrail,
they could look forward to the lean waist of the ship and the vague
outline of the listlessly bellying sail. Beyond the hull, the sea was
an arabesque of luminescence, delicate traceries of shifting white
light out to the glowing horizon. The cold fire streamed from the
ship's bows and whirled in her wake, the hull dripped liquid flame.

The night was very quiet. The faint hiss and smack of cloven water,
creak of planks and tackle, distant splashing of waves and invisible
sea beasts--otherwise there was only the enormous silence under the
high clouds. The breeze was cool on their cheeks.

"How long till we get to the Sea of Demons?" asked Imazu. His voice was
oddly hushed in the huge stillness.

"With ordinary sailing weather, I'd say about three ten-days--maybe
four," answered Corun indifferently.

"It's a strange mission we're on, aye, that it is." Imazu's head
wagged, barely visible in the dark. "I like it not, Corun. I have evil
feelings about it, and the omens I took before leaving weren't good."

"Why then did you sail? You're a free man, aren't you?"

"So they say!" Sudden bitterness rose in the Umlotuan's voice. "Free as
any of Shorzon's followers, which is to say less free than a slave, who
can at least run away."

"Why, doesn't he pay well?"

"Oh, aye, he is lavish in that regard. But he has his ways of binding
servants to him so that they must do his bidding above that of the very
gods. He put his geas on most of these sailors, for instance. They were
simple folk, and thought he was only magicking them a good-luck charm."

"You mean they are bound? He has their souls?"

"Aye. He put them to sleep in some sorcerous way and impressed his
command on them. No matter what happens now, they must obey him. The
geas is stronger than their own wills."

Corun shivered. "Are you--Pardon. It's no concern of mine."

"No, no, that's all right. He put no such binding on me--I knew better
than to accept his offer of a luck-bringing spell. But he has other
ways. He lent me a slave-girl from Umlotu for my pleasure--but she is
lovely, wonderful, kind, all that a woman should be. She has borne
me sons, and made homecoming ever a joy. But you see, she is still
Shorzon's and he will not sell her to me or free her--moreover, he did
put his geas on her. If ever I rebelled, she would suffer for it."
Imazu spat over the rail. "So I am Shorzon's creature too."

"It must be a strange service."

"It is. Mostly all I have to do is captain his bodyguard. But I've seen
and helped in some dark things. He's a fiend from the lowest hell,
Shorzon is. And his granddaughter--" Imazu stopped.

"Yes?" asked Corun roughly. His hand closed bruisingly on the other's
arm. "Go on. What of her?"

"Nothing. Nothing. I really have had little to do with her." Imazu's
face was lost in the gloom, but Corun felt the one eye hard on him.
"Only--be careful, pirate. Don't let her lay her own sort of geas on
you. You've been a free man till now. Don't become anyone's blind
slave."

"I've no such intention," said Corun frostily.

"Then no more need be said." Imazu sighed heavily and got up. "I think
I'll go to bed, then. What of you?"

"Not yet. I'm not sleepy. Goodnight."

"Goodnight."

       *       *       *       *       *

Corun sat back alone. He could barely discern the helmsman--beyond
lay only glowing darkness and the whispering of the night. He felt
loneliness like a cold hollow within his breast.

Father and mother, his tall brothers and his laughing lovely sister,
the comrades of youth, the hard wild stout-hearted pirates with whom he
had sailed for such a long and bloody time--where were they now? Where
in all the blowing night were they?

Where was he and on what mission, sailing alone through a pit of
darkness on a ship of strangers? What meaning and hope in all the cruel
insanity of the world?

Suddenly he wanted his mother, he wanted to lay his head on her lap and
cry in desolation and hear her gentle voice--no, by the gods, it wasn't
her image he saw, it was a lithe and dark-haired witch who was crooning
to him and stroking his hair--

He cursed tonelessly and got up. Best to go to bed and try to sleep his
fancies away. He was becoming childish.

He went down the catwalk toward the cabin. As he neared it, he saw
a figure by the rail darkly etched against a shimmering patch of
phosphorescence. His heart sprang into his throat.

She turned as he came near. "Corun," she said. "I couldn't sleep. Come
over here and talk to me. Isn't the night beautiful?"

He leaned on the rail, not daring to look at the haunting face pale-lit
by the swirling sea-fire. "It's nice," he said clumsily.

"But it's lonely," she whispered. "I never felt so sad and alone
before."

"Why--why, that's how I felt!" he blurted.

"Corun--"

She came to him and he took her with a sudden madness of yearning.

Perias the erinye snarled as they thrust him out of her cabin. He
padded up and down the deck for a while. A sailor who stood watch near
the forecastle followed him with frightened eyes and muttered prayers
to the amulet about his neck.

Presently the devil-beast curled up before the cabin. The lids drooped
over his green eyes, but they remained unwinkingly fixed on the door.


                                   V

Under a hot sullen sky, the windless sea swelled in long slow waves
that rocked the tangled kelp and ocean-grass up and down, heavenward
and hellward. To starboard, the dark cliffs of a small jungled island
rose from an angry muttering surf, but there were no birds flying above
it.

Corun pointed to the shore. "That's the first of the archipelago," he
said. "From here on, we can look for the Xanthi to come at any time."

"We should get as far into their territory as possible, even to the
black palace," said Shorzon. "I will put a spell of invisibility on the
ship."

"Their sorcerers can break that," said Chryseis.

"Aye, so. But when they come to know our powers, I think they will
treat with us."

"They'd better!" smiled Imazu grimly.

"Steer on toward the island of the castle," said Shorzon to the pirate.
"I go to lay the spell."

He went into his cabin. Corun had a glimpse of its dark interior before
the door was closed--draped in black and filled with the apparatus of
magic.

"He will have to be in a trance, physically, to maintain the
enchantment," said Chryseis. She smiled at Corun, and his pulses raced.
"Come, my dearest, it is cooler on the afterdeck."

The sailors rowed steadily, sweat glistening on their bare blue hides.
Imazu paced up and down the catwalk, flicking idlers with his whip.
Corun stood where he could keep an eye on the steersman and see that
the right course was followed.

It had been utter wonder till now, he thought, unending days when they
plowed through seas of magic, nights of joy such as he had never known.
There had never been another woman such as Chryseis, he thought, never
in all the world, and he was the luckiest of men. Though he died today,
he had been more fortunate than any man ever dared dream.

Chryseis, Chryseis, loveliest and wisest and most valiant of women--and
she was his, before all the jealous gods, she loved him!

"There has only been one thing wrong," he said. "You are going into
danger now. The world would go dark if aught befell you."

"And I should sit at home while you were away, and never know what had
happened, never know if you lived or died--no, no, Corun!"

He laid a hand on the sword at his waist. They had given him arms and
armor again after she had come to him. Logical enough, he thought
without resentment--he could be trusted now, as much as if he were one
of Shorzon's ensorcelled warriors.

But if this were a spell too, the gods deliver him from ever being
freed of it!

He blinked. There was a sudden breath of chill on him, and his eyes
were blurring--no, no, it was the ship that wavered, ship and men
fading--He clutched at Chryseis. She laughed softly and slipped an arm
around his waist.

"It is only Shorzon's spell," she said. "It affects us too, to some
extent. And it makes the ship invisible to anyone within seeing range."

Ghost ship, ghost crew, slipping over the slowly heaving waters. There
was only the foggiest outline to be seen, shadow of mast and rigging
against the sky, glimpses of water through the gray smoke of the hull,
blobs of darkness that were the crewmen. Sound was still clear; he
heard the mutter of superstitious awe, the crack of the whip, and
Imazu's oaths that sent the oars creaking and splashing again. Corun's
hand was a misty blur before his eyes. Chryseis was a shadow beside him.

She laughed once more, a low exultant throb, and pulled his lips down
to hers. He ruffled the streaming fragrant hair and felt a return of
courage. It was only a spell.

But what were the spells? he wondered for the thousandth time. He
did not hold with the simple theory that wizards were in league with
gods or demons. They had powers, yes, but he was sure that somehow
these powers came only from within themselves. Chryseis had always
evaded his questions about it. There must be some simple answer to the
problem, some real process, as real as that of making a fire, behind
the performances of the sorcerers--but it baffled him to think what it
might be.

Blast it all, it just wasn't reasonable that Shorzon, for instance,
should have been able actually to change himself into a jungle monster
many times his size. Yet he, Corun, had seen the thing, had felt its
wet scales and smelled its reptile stink. How?

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship plowed slowly on. Now and then Corun looked at the compass,
straining his eyes to discern the blurred needle. Otherwise they could
only wait.

But waiting with Chryseis was remarkably pleasant.

It was at the end of a timeless time, perhaps half a day, that he saw
the Xanthian patrol. "Look," he pointed. "There they come."

Chryseis stared boldly over the sea. The hand beneath his was steady as
her voice: "So I see. They're--beautiful, aren't they?"

The cetaraea came leaping across the waves, big graceful beasts with
the shapes of fish, their smooth black hides shining and the water
white behind their threshing tails. Astride each was a great golden
form bearing a lance. They quartered across the horizon and were lost
to sight.

The crew mumbled in fear, shaken to their hardy souls by the terrible
unhuman grace of the Xanthi. Imazu cursed them back to work. The ship
went on.

Islands slipped by, empty of man-sign. They had glimpses of Xanthian
works, spires and walls rearing above the jungle. These were not
the white colonnaded buildings of Tauros or the timbered halls of
Conahur--of black stone they were, with pointed towers climbing crazily
skyward. Once a great sea serpent reared its head, spouted water,
and writhed away. All creatures save man could sense the presence of
wizardry and refused to go near it.

Night fell, an abyss of night broken only by faint glimmers of sea-fire
under the carpeting weed. Men stood uneasy watch in full armor, peering
blindly into the somber immensity. It was hot, hot and silent.

Near midnight the lookout shouted from the masthead: "Xanthi to
larboard!"

"Silence, you fool!" called Imazu. "Want them to hear us?"

The patrol was a faint swirl and streaking of phosphorescence, blacker
shadows against the night. It was coming nearer.

"Have they spotted us?" wondered Corun.

"No," breathed Chryseis. "But they're close enough for their mounts--"

There was a great snorting and splashing out in the murk. The cetaraea
were refusing to go into the circle of Shorzon's spell. Voices lifted,
an unhuman croaking. The erinye, the only animal who did not seem to
mind witchcraft, snarled in saw-edged tones, eyes a green blaze against
the night.

Presently the squad turned and slipped away. "They know something is
wrong, and they've gone for help," said Corun. "We'll have a fight on
our hands before long."

He stretched his big body, suddenly eager for action. This waiting was
more than he could stand.

The ship drove on. Corun and Chryseis napped on the deck; it was too
stiflingly hot below. The long night wore away.

In the misty gray of morning, they saw a dark mass advancing from
the west. Corun's sword rasped out of the sheath. It was a long,
double-edged blade such as they used in Conahur, and it was thirsty.

"Get inside, Chryseis," he said tightly.

"Get inside yourself," she answered. There was a lilt in her voice like
a little girl's. He felt her quiver with joyous expectation.

The ghostly outlines of the ship wavered, thickened, faded again,
flickered back toward solidity. Suddenly they had sight; the vessel
lay real around them; they saw each other in helm and corselet, face
looking into tautened face.

"They have a wizard along--he broke Shorzon's spell," said the
Conahurian.

"We looked for that," answered Chryseis evenly. "But as long as Shorzon
keeps fighting him, there will be a roiling of magic around us such
that none of their beasts will approach."

She stood beside him, slim and boyish in polished cuirass and plumed
helmet, shortsword belted to her waist and a bow in one hand. Her
nostrils quivered, her eyes shone, and she laughed aloud. "We'll drive
them off," she said. "We'll send them home like beaten iaganaths."

Imazu blew the war-horn, wild brazen echoes screaming over the sea. His
men drew in the oars, pulled on their armor, and stood along the rails,
waiting.

"But did we come here to fight them?" asked Corun.

"No," said Chryseis. "But we've known all along that we'd have to give
them a taste of our might before they'd talk to us."

The Xanthian lancers were milling about half a league away, as if in
conference. Suddenly someone blew a harsh-toned horn and Corun saw half
the troop slide from the saddle into the water. "So--they'll swim at
us," he muttered.

       *       *       *       *       *

The attack came from all sides, converging on the ship in a rush of
foam. As the Xanthi neared, Corun saw their remembered lineaments and
felt the old clutch of panic. _They weren't human._

With the fluked tail, one of them had twice the length of a man. The
webbed hind feet, on which they walked ashore, were held close to the
body; the strangely human hands carried weapons. They swam half under
water, the dorsal fins rising over. Their necks were long, with gills
near the blunt-snouted heads; their grinning mouths showed gleaming
fangs. The eyes were big, dark, alive with cold intelligence. They bore
no armor, but scales the color of beaten gold covered back and sides
and tail. They came in at furious speed, churning the sea behind them.

Chryseis' voice rose to a wild shriek. "Perias! Perias--kill!"

The erinye howled and unfolded his leather-webbed wings. Like a hurled
spear he streaked into the air, rushed down on the nearest Xanthian
like a thunderbolt--claws, teeth, barbed tail, a blinding fury of blood
and death, ripping flesh as if it were parchment.

The ship's ballista _chunked_ and balls of the ever-burning Achaeran
fire were hurled out to fall blazing among the enemy. Chryseis' bow
hummed beside Corun, a Xanthian went under with an arrow in his
throat--the air was thick with shafts as the crew fired.

Still the Xanthi rushed on, ducking up and down, near impossible to
hit. The first of them came up to the hull and sank their clawed
fingers into the wood. The sailors thrust downward with pikes, howling
in fear-maddened rage.

The man near Corun went down with a hurled javelin through him. At
once a huge golden form was slithering over the rail, onto the deck.
The sword in his hand flashed, another Umlotuan's weapon was knocked
spinning from his hand and the reptile hewed him down.

Corun sprang to do battle. The swords clashed together with a shock
that jarred the man backward. Corun spread his feet and smote out. His
blade whirled down to strike the shoulder, gash the chest, and drive
the hissing monster back.

With a rising cold fury, Corun followed it up. _That_ for the long
inquisition--_that_ for being a horror out of the sea bottom--_that_
for threatening Chryseis! The Xanthian writhed with a belly ripped
open. Still he wouldn't die--he flopped and struck from the deck. Corun
evaded the sweeping tail and cut off the creature's head.

They were pouring onto the ship through gaps in the line. Chryseis
stood on the foredeck in a line of defending men, her bow singing
death. Battle snarled about the mast, men against monsters, sword and
halberd and ax belling in cloven bone.

A giant's blow bowled Corun off his feet, the tail of a Xanthian. He
rolled over and thrust upward as the Sea Demon sprang on him. The sword
went through the heart. Hissing and snapping, his foe toppled on him.
He heaved the struggling body away and sprang back to his stance.

"To me!" bellowed Imazu. "To me, men!"

He stood wielding a huge battle ax by the mast, striking at the beasts
that raged around him, lopping heads and arms and tails like a woodman.
The scattered humans rallied and began to fight their way toward him,
step by bloody step.

Perias the erinye was everywhere, a flying fury, ripping and biting and
smashing with wing-blows. Corun loomed huge over the men who fought
beside him, the sword shrieking and thundering in his hands. Imazu
stood stolidly against the mast, smashing at all comers. A rush of
Xanthi broke past him and surged against the foredeck. The defenders
beat them off, Chryseis thrusting as savagely with her sword as any
man, and they reeled back against the masthead warriors to be cut down.

A Xanthian sprang at Corun, wielding a long-shafted ax that shivered
the sword in his hand. The Conahurian struck back, his blade darting
past the monster's guard to stab through the throat. The Xanthian
staggered. Corun wrenched the blade loose and brought it down again to
sing in the reptile skull.

Before he could pull it loose, another was on him. Corun ducked under
the spear he carried and closed his hands around the slippery sides.
The clawed feet raked his legs. He lifted the thing and hurled it into
another with bone-shattering force. One of them threshed wildly, neck
broken--the other bounded at Corun. The man yanked his sword free and
it whistled against the golden head.

       *       *       *       *       *

Back and forth the struggle swayed, crashing of metal and howling of
warriors. And the Xanthi were driven to the rails--they could not stand
against the rallying human line in the narrow confines of the ship.

"Kill them!" roared Imazu. "Kill the misbegotten snakes!"

[Illustration: _"Kill them!" roared Imazu. "Kill the misbegotten
snakes!"_]

Suddenly the Xanthi were slipping overboard, swimming for their mounts
beyond the zone of magic. Perias followed, harrying them, pulling them
half out of the water to rip their throats out.

The ship was wet, streaming with human red and reptile yellow blood.
Dead and wounded littered the decks. Corun saw the Xanthi cavalry
retreating out of sight.

"We've won," he gasped. "We've won--"

"No--wait--" Chryseis inclined her head sharply, seeming to listen,
then darted past him to open a hatch. Light streamed down into the
hold. It was filling--the bilge was rising. "I thought so," she said
grimly. "They're below us, chopping into the hull."

"We'll see about that," said Corun, and unbuckled his cuirass. "All who
can swim, after me!"

"No--no, they'll kill you--"

"Come on!" rapped Imazu, letting his own breastplate clang to the deck.

Corun sprang overboard. He was wearing nothing but a kilt now, and had
a spear in one hand and a dirk in his teeth. Fear was gone, washed out
by the red tides of battle. There was only a bleak, terrible triumph in
him. Men _had_ beaten the Sea Demons!

Underwater, it was green and dim. He swam down, down, brushing the
hull, pulling himself along the length of the keel. There were half a
dozen shapes clustered near the waist, working with axes.

He pushed against the keel and darted at them, holding the spear like a
lance. The keen point stabbed into the belly of one monster. The others
turned, their eyes terrible in the gloom. Corun took the dirk in his
hand, got a grip on the next nearest, and stabbed.

Claws ripped his flanks and back. His lungs were bursting, there was a
roaring in his head and darkness before his eyes. He stabbed blindly,
furiously.

Suddenly the struggling form let go. Corun broke the surface and gasped
in a lungful of air. A Sea Demon leaped up beside him. At once the
erinye was on him. The Xanthian screamed as he was torn apart.

Corun dove back under water. The other seamen were down there, fighting
for their lives. They outnumbered the Xanthi, but the monsters were in
their native element. Blood streaked the water, blinding them all. It
was a strange, horrible battle for survival.

In the end, Corun and Imazu and the others--except for four--were
hauled back aboard. "We drove them off," said the pirate wearily.

"Oh, my dear--my dearest dear--" Chryseis, who had laughed in battle,
was sobbing on his breast.

Shorzon was on deck, looking over the scene. "We did well," he said.
"We stood them off, killed about thirty, and only lost fifteen men."

"At that rate," said Corun, "it won't take them long to clear our
decks."

"I don't think they will try again," said Shorzon.

He went over to a captured Xanthian. The Sea Demon had had a foot
chopped off in the battle and been pinned to the deck by a pike, but he
still lived and rasped defiance at them. If allowed to live, he would
grow new members--the monsters were tougher than they had a right to be.

"Hark, you," said Shorzon in the Xanthian tongue, which he had learned
with astonishing ease. "We come on a mission of peace, with an offer
that your king will be pleased to hear. You have seen only a small part
of our powers. It is not beyond us to sail to your palace and bring it
crumbling to earth."

Corun wondered how much was bluff. The old sorcerer might really be
able to do it. In any case--he had nerve!

"What can you things offer us?" asked the Xanthian.

"That is only for the king to hear," said Shorzon coldly. "He will not
thank you for molesting us. Now we will let you go to bear word back to
your rulers. Tell them we are coming whether they will or no, but that
we come in friendship if they will but show it. After all, if they wish
to kill us it can be just as easily done--if at all--after they have
heard us out. Now go!"

Imazu pulled the pike loose and the yellow-bleeding Xanthian writhed
overboard.

"I do not think we will be bothered again," said Shorzon calmly. "Not
before we get to the black palace."

"You may be right," admitted Corun. "You gave them a good argument by
their standards."

"Friends?" muttered Imazu. "Friends with those things? As soon expect
the erinye to lie down by the bovan, _I_ think."

"Come," said Chryseis impatiently. "We have to repair the leak and
clean the decks and get under way again. It is a long trip yet to the
black palace."

She turned to Corun and her eyes were dark flames. "How you fought!"
she whispered. "How you fought, beloved!"


                                  VI

The castle stood atop one of the high gray cliffs which walled in a
little bay. Beyond the shore, the island climbed steeply toward a gaunt
mountain bare of jungle. The sea rolled sullenly against the rocks
under a low gloomy sky thickening with the approach of night.

The _Briseia_ rowed slowly into the bay, twenty men at the oars and the
rest standing nervous guard by the rails. On either side, the Xanthi
cavalry hemmed them in, lancers astride the swimming cetaraea with eyes
watchful on the humans, and behind them three great sea snakes under
direction of their sorcerers followed ominously.

Imazu shivered. "If they came at us now," he muttered, "we wouldn't
last long."

"We'd give them a fight!" said Corun.

"They will receive us," declared Shorzon.

The ship grounded on the shallows near the beach. The sailors
hesitated. To pull her ashore would be to expose themselves almost
helplessly to attack. "Go on, jump to it!" snapped Imazu, and the men
shipped their oars and sheathed their weapons, waded into the bay and
dragged the vessel up on the strand.

The chiefs of the Xanthi stood waiting for them. There were perhaps
fifty of the reptiles, huge golden forms wrapped in dark flowing robes
on which glittered ropes of jewels. A few wore tall miters and carried
hooked staffs of office. Like statues they stood, waiting, and the
sailors shivered.

Shorzon, Chryseis, Corun, and Imazu walked up toward them with all
the slow dignity they could summon. The Conahurian's eyes sought the
huge wrinkled form of Tsathu, king of the Xanthi. The monster's gaze
brightened on him and the fanged mouth opened in a bass croak:

"So you have returned to us. You may not leave this time."

"Your majesty's hospitality overwhelms me," said Corun ironically.

A stooped old Xanthian beside the king plucked his sleeve and hissed
rapidly: "I told you, sire, I told you he would come back with the
ruin of worlds in his train. Cut them all down now, before the fates
strike. Kill them while there is time!"

"There will be time," said Tsathu.

His unblinking eyes locked with Shorzon's and suddenly the twilight
shimmered and trembled, the nerves of men shook and out in the water
the sea-beasts snorted with panic. For a long moment that silent duel
of wizardry quivered in the air, and then it faded and the unreality
receded into the background of dusk.

Slowly the Xanthian monarch nodded, as if satisfied to find an opponent
he could not overcome.

"I am Shorzon of Achaera," said the man, "and I would speak with the
chiefs of the Xanthi."

"You may do so," replied the reptile. "Come up to the castle and we
will quarter your folk."

At Imazu's order, the sailors began unloading the gifts that had been
brought: weapons, vessels and ornaments of precious metals set with
jewels, rare tapestries and incenses. Tsathu hardly glanced at them.
"Follow me," he said curtly. "All your people."

"I'd hoped at least to leave a guard on the ship," murmured Imazu to
Corun.

"Would have done little good if they really wanted to seize her,"
whispered the Conahurian.

It did not seem as if Tsathu could have heard them, but he turned and
his bass boom rolled over the mumbling surf: "That is right. You may as
well relax your petty precautions. They will avail nothing."

       *       *       *       *       *

In a long file, they went up a narrow trail toward the black palace.
The Xanthian rulers went first, with deliberately paced dignity,
thereafter the human captains, their men, and a silent troop of armed
reptile soldiery. _Hemmed in_, thought Corun grimly. _If they want to
start shooting_--

Chryseis' hand clasped his, a warm grip in the misty gloom. He
responded gratefully. She came right behind him, her other hand on the
nervous and growling erinye.

The castle loomed ahead, blacker than the night that was gathering,
the gigantic walls climbing sheer toward the sky, the spear-like
towers half lost in the swirling fog. There was always fog here, Corun
remembered, mist and rain and shadow; it was never full day on the
island. He sniffed the dank sea-smell that blew from the gaping portals
and bristled in recollection.

They entered the cavernous doorway and went down a high narrow corridor
which seemed to stretch on forever. Its bare stone walls were wet
and green-slimed, tendrils of mist drifted under the invisibly high
ceiling, and he heard the hooting and muttering of unknown voices
somewhere in the murk. The only light was a dim bluish radiance from
fungoid balls growing on the walls, a cold unhealthy shadowless
illumination in which the white humans looked like drowned corpses.
Looking behind, Corun could barely make out the frightened faces of
the Umlotuans, huddled close together and gripping their weapons with
futile strength.

The Xanthi glided noiselessly through the mumbling gloom, tall spectral
forms with faint golden light streaming from their damp scales. It
seemed as if there were other presences in the castle too, things
flitting just beyond sight, hiding in lightless corners and fluttering
between the streamers of fog. Always, it seemed, there were watching
eyes, watching and waiting in the dark.

They came into a cavernous antechamber whose walls were lost in the
dripping twilight. Tsathu's voice boomed hollowly between the chill
immensities of it: "Follow those who will show you to your quarters."

Silent Xanthi slipped between the human ranks, herding them with
spears--the sailors one way, their chiefs another. "Where are you
taking the men?" asked Imazu with an anger sharpened by fear. "Where
are you keeping them?" The echoes flew from wall to wall, jeering
him--_keeping them, keeping them, them, them_--

"They go below the castle," said a Xanthian. "You will have more
suitable rooms."

_Our men down in the old dungeons_--Corun's hand whitened on the hilt
of his sword. But it was useless to protest, unless they wanted to
start a battle now.

The four human leaders were taken down another whispering, echoing
tunnel of a corridor, up a long ramp that seemed to wind inside one of
the towers, and into a circular room in whose walls were six doors.
There the guards left them, fading back down the impenetrable night of
the ramp.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rooms were furnished with grotesque ornateness--huge hideously
carved beds and tables, scaled tapestries and rugs, shells and jewels
set in the mold-covered walls. Narrow slits of windows opened on the
wet night. Darkness and mist hid Corun's view of the ground, but the
faintness of the surf told them they must be dizzyingly high up.

"Ill is this," he said. "A few guards on that ramp can bottle us up
here forever. And they need only lock the dungeon gates to have our men
imprisoned below."

"We will treat with them. Before long they will be our allies," said
Shorzon. His hooded eyes were on Chryseis. It was with a sudden shock
that Corun remembered. Days and nights of bliss, and then the violence
of battle and the tension of approach, had driven from his mind the
fact that he had never been told what the witch-pair was really here
for. It was _their_ voyage, not his, and what real good could have
brought them to this place of evil?

He shoved his big body forward, a tawny giant in the foggy chill of
the central room. "It is near time I was told something of what you
intend," he said. "I have guided you and taught you and battled at your
side, and I'll not be kept blindfolded any longer."

"You will be told what I tell you--no more," said Shorzon haughtily.
"You have me to thank for your miserable life--let that be enough."

"You can thank me that you're not being eaten by fish at the bottom
of the sea right now," snapped Corun. "By Breannach Brannor, I've had
enough of this!"

He stood with his back against the wall, sweeping them with ice-blue
eyes. Shorzon stood black and ominous, wrath in the smoldering, sunken
eyes. Chryseis shrank back a little from both of them, but Perias the
erinye growled and flattened his belly to the floor and stared greenly
at Corun. Imazu shifted from foot to foot, his wide blue face twisted
with indecision.

"I can strike you dead where you stand," warned Shorzon. "I can become
a monster that will rip you to rags."

"Try it!" snarled Corun. "Just try it!"

Chryseis slipped between them and the huge dark eyes were bright with
tears. "Are we not in enough danger now, four humans against a land of
walking beasts, without falling at each other's throats? I think it is
the witchcraft of Tsathu working on us, dividing us--fight _him_!"

She swayed against the Conahurian. "Corun," she breathed. "Corun, my
dearest of all--you shall know, you shall be told everything as soon as
we dare. But don't you see--you haven't the skill to protect yourself
and your knowledge against the Xanthian magic?"

_Or against your magic, beloved._

She laughed softly and drew him after her, into one of the rooms.
"Come, Corun. We are all weary now, it is time to rest. Come, my dear.
Tomorrow--"


                                  VII

Day crept past in a blindness of rain. Twice Xanthians brought them
food, and once Corun and Imazu ventured down the ramp to find their way
barred by spear-bearing reptiles. For the rest they were alone.

It ate at the nerves like an acid. Shorzon sat stiff, unmoving on
a couch, eyes clouded with thought; his gaunt body could have been
that of a Khemrian mummy. Imazu squatted unhappily, carving one of
the intricate trinkets with whose making sailors pass dreamy hours.
Corun paced like a caged beast, throttled rage mounting in him. Even
Perias grew restless and took to padding up and down the antechamber,
passing Corun on the way. The man could not help a half smile. He was
growing almost fond of the erinye and his honest malevolence, after the
intriguing of humans and Xanthi.

Only Chryseis remained calm. She lay curled on her bed like a big
beautiful animal, the long silken hair tumbling darkly past her
shoulders, a veiled smile on her red lips. And so the day wore on.

It was toward evening that they heard slow footfalls and looked out
to see a party of Xanthi coming up the ramp. It was an awesome sight,
the huge golden forms moving with deliberation and pride under the
shimmering robes that flowed about them. Some were warriors, with
saw-edged pikes flashing in their hands, but the one who spoke was
plainly a palace official.

"Greeting from Tsathu, king of the Demon Sea, to Shorzon of Achaera,"
the voice boomed. "You are to feast with the lords of the Xanthi
tonight."

"I am honored," bowed the sorcerer. "The woman Chryseis will come with
me, for she is equal with me."

"That is permitted," said the Xanthian gravely.

"And we, I suppose, wait here," muttered Corun rebelliously.

"It won't be for long," smiled Chryseis softly. "After tonight, I think
it will be safe to tell you what you wish to know."

She had donned banqueting dress carried up with her from the ship,
a clinging robe of the light-rippling silk of Hiung-nu, a scarlet
cloak that was like a rush of flame from her slim bare shoulders,
barbarically massive bracelets and necklaces, a single fire-ruby
burning at her white throat. Pearls and silver glittered like dewdrops
in her night-black hair. The loveliness of her caught at Corun's
throat. He could only stare with dumb longing as she went after Shorzon
and the Xanthi.

She turned to wave at him. Her whisper twined around his heart:
"Goodnight, beloved."

When they were gone, the erinye padding after them, Imazu gave Corun a
rueful look and said, "So now we are out of the story."

"Not yet," answered the Conahurian, still a little dazed.

"Oh, yes, oh, yes. Surely you do not think that we plain sailormen will
be asked for our opinions? No, Corun, we are only pieces on Shorzon's
board. We've done our part, and now he will put us back in the box."

"Chryseis said--"

Imazu shook his scarred bald head sadly. "Surely you don't believe a
word that black witch utters?"

Corun half drew his sword. "I told you before that I'd hear no word
against Chryseis," he said thinly.

"As you will. It doesn't matter, anyway. But be honest, Corun. Strike
me down if you will, it doesn't matter now, but try to think. I've
known Chryseis longer than you, and I've never known anyone to change
their habits overnight--for anyone."

"She said--"

"Oh, I think she likes you, in her own way. You make as handsome and
useful a pet as that erinye of hers. But whatever else she is after, it
is something for which she would give more than the world and not have
a second thought about it."

Corun paced unhappily. "I don't trust Shorzon," he admitted. "I trust
him as I would a mad pherax. And anything Tsathu plans is--evil." He
glared down the cavernous mouth of the ramp. "If I could only hear what
they say!"

"What chance of that? We're under guard, you know."

"Aye, so. But--" Struck with a sudden thought, Corun went over to the
window. The rain had ceased outside, but a solid wall of fog and night
barred vision. It was breathlessly hot, and he heard the low muttering
of thunder in the hidden sky.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were vines growing on the wall, tendrils as thick as a man's leg.
The broad leaves hung down over the sill, wet with rain and fog. "I
remember the layout of the castle," he said slowly. "It's a warren of
tunnels and corridors, but I could find my way to the feasting hall."

"If they caught you, it would be death," said Imazu uneasily.

Corun's grin was bleak. "It will most likely be death anyway," he said.
"I think I'll try."

"I'm not as spry as I once was, but--"

"No, no, Imazu, you had best wait here. Then if anyone comes prying
and sees you, he'll think we're both here--maybe."

Corun slipped off tunic and sandals, leaving only his kilt. He hung his
sword across his back, put a knife in his belt, and turned toward the
window.

"It may be all wrong," he said. "I should trust Chryseis--and I do,
Imazu, but they might easily overpower her. And anything is better than
this waiting like beasts in a trap."

"The gods be with you, then," said Imazu huskily. He shook a horny
fist. "To hell with Shorzon! I've been his thrall too long. I'm with
you, friend."

"Thanks." Corun swung out the window. "Good luck to both--to all of us,
Imazu."

The fog wrapped around his eyes like a hood. He could barely see the
shadowy wall, and he groped with fingers and toes for the vines. One
slip, one break, and he would be spattered to red ruin in the courtyard
below.

Down and down and down--Twigs clawed at him. The branches were slick
in his hands, buried under a smother of leaves. His muscles began to
ache with the strain. Several times he slipped and saved himself with a
desperate clawing grip.

Something moaned in the night, under the deepening growl of thunder.

He clung to the wall and strained his eyes down. A breath of wind
parted the fog briefly into ragged streamers through which winked the
savage light of a bolt of lightning, high in the murky sky. Down below
was the courtyard. He saw the metallic gleam of scales, guards pacing
between the walls.

Slowly, he edged his way across the outjutting tower to the main wall
of the castle. Slantwise, he crept over its surface until a slit of
blackness loomed before him, another window. He had to squeeze to get
through, the stone scraping his skin.

For a moment he stood inside, breathing heavily, the drawn sword in
his hand. There was a corridor stretching beyond this room, on into a
darkness lit by the ghostly blue fungus-glow. He saw and heard nothing
of the Xanthi, but something scuttled across the floor and crouched in
a shadowed corner, watching him.

On noiseless bare feet, he ran down the hall. Fog eddied and curled in
the tenebrous length of it, he heard the dripping of water and once a
shuddering scream ripped the dank air. He thought he remembered where
he was in that labyrinth--left here, and there would be another ramp
going down--

A huge golden form loomed around the corner. Before the jaws could open
to shout, Corun's sword hissed in a vicious arc and the Xanthian's head
leaped from his shoulders. He kicked the flopping body behind a door
and sped on his way, panting.

Halfway down the ramp, a narrow entrance gaped, one of the tunnels that
riddled the building through its massive walls. Corun slithered down
its lightless wet length. It should open on the great chamber and--

Black against the dim blue light of the exit, a motionless form was
squatting. Corun groaned inwardly. They had a guard against intruders,
then. Best to go back now--no! He snarled soundlessly and bounded
forward, clutching the sword in one hand and reaching out with the
other.

Fingers rasping across the scaly hide, he hooked the thing's neck into
the crook of his elbow and yanked the heavy body back into the tunnel
with one enormous wrench. Blind in the darkness, he stabbed into the
mouth, driving the point of his sword through flesh and bone into the
brain.

The dying monster's claws raked him as he crouched over the body. He
reflected grimly that no matter how benevolent the Xanthi might be,
he would die for murder if they ever caught him. But he had no great
fear of their suddenly becoming tender toward mankind. The bulk of the
reptile race was peaceable, actually, but their rulers were relentless.

The tunnel opened on a small balcony halfway up the rearing chamber
wall. Corun lay on his belly, peering down over the edge.

       *       *       *       *       *

They sat at a long table, the lords of the Demon Sea, and he felt a
dim surprise at seeing that they were almost through eating. Had his
nightmare journey taken that long? They were talking, and the sound
drifted up to his ears.

At the head of the table, Tsathu and his councillors sat on a long
ornate couch ablaze with beaten gold. Shorzon and Chryseis were
reclining nearby, sipping the bitter yellow wine of the Xanthi. It
was strange to hear the hideous hissing and croaking of the reptile
language coming from Chryseis' lovely throat.

"--interesting, I am sure," said the king.

"More than that--more than that!" It seemed to Corun that he could
almost see the terrible fire in Shorzon's eyes. The wizard leaned
forward, shaking with intensity. "You can do it. The Xanthi can conquer
Achaera with ease. Your sea cavalry and serpents can smash their ships,
your devil-powder can burst their walls into the air, your legions can
overrun their land, your wizardry blind and craze them. And the terror
you will inspire will force the people to do our bidding."

"Possibly you overrate us," said Tsathu. "It is true that we have
great numbers and a strong army, but do not forget that the Xanthi are
actually a more peaceful race than man. Your kind is hard and savage,
murdering even each other, making war simply for loot or glory or no
real reason at all. Until the king-race arose, the Xanthi dwelt quietly
on the sea bottom and a few small islands, without wish to harm anyone.

"They have not even the natural capacity for magic possessed, however
undeveloped, by all humans. As a result they are much more susceptible
to it than men. Thus, when the king-race was born with such powers,
they were soon able to control all their people and make themselves the
absolute masters of the Xanthi. But we, kings and wizards and lords of
the Demon Sea, are all one interbred clan. Without us, the Xanthi power
would collapse; they would go back to what they were.

"Even Xanthi science is all of our making. _We_, the king-race,
developed the devil-powder and all that we have ever made is stored in
the dungeons of this very building--enough to blow it into the sky."

       *       *       *       *       *

Tsathu made a grimace which might have been a sardonic smile. "Do not
read weakness into that admission," he said. "Even though all the lords
who make Xanthian might are gathered in this one room, that power
is still immeasurably greater than you can imagine. To show you how
helpless you are--your men are locked into the dungeons and your geas
has been lifted from their minds."

"Impossible!" gasped Shorzon. "A geas cannot be lifted--"

"But it can. What is it but a compulsion implanted in the brain, so
deeply as to supersede all other habits? One mind cannot erase that
imposed pattern, but several minds working in concert can do so, and
that I and my councillors have done. As of today, your folk are free in
soul, hating you for what you made them. You are alone."

The great scaled forms edged closer, menacingly. Corun's fist clenched
about his sword. If they harmed Chryseis--

But she said cooly: "It does not matter. Our men were simply to bring
us here, nothing else. We can dispense with them. What matters is our
plan to impose magic control over Achaera."

"And I cannot yet see what benefit the Xanthi would get of it," said
Tsathu impatiently. "Our powers of darkness are so much greater than
yours already that--"

"Let us not use words meant to impress the ignorant among ourselves,"
said Chryseis scornfully. "Every sorcerer knows there is nothing of
heaven or hell about magic. It is but the imposition of a pattern
on other minds. It creates, by control of the senses, illusions of
lycanthropy or whatever else is desired, or it binds the subject by the
unbreakable compulsion of a geas. But it is no more than that--one mind
reaching through space to create what impressions it wills on another
mind. Your devil-powder, or an ordinary sword or ax or fist, is more
dangerous--if the fools only knew."

Corun's breath hissed between his teeth. If--if that--O gods, if _that_
was the secret of the magicians--!

"As you will," said Tsathu indifferently. "What matters is that there
are more of our minds than your two, and thus we can beat down any
attempt you may make against us. So it comes back to the question, why
should we help you seize and hold Achaera? What will we gain?"

"I should say nothing of its great wealth," said Shorzon. "But it is
true, as you say, that many minds working together are immeasurably
more powerful than one--more powerful, even, than the sum of all those
minds working separately. I have worked with as many as a dozen slaves,
having them concentrate with me, so that I could draw their mind-force
through my own brain and use it as my own, and the results have amazed
me. Now if the entire population of Achaera were forced to help us, all
at one time--"

The Xanthi's eyes glittered and a low murmur rose among them. Shorzon
went on, rapidly: "It would be power over the world. Nothing could
stand before that massed mental force. With us, skilled sorcerers,
to direct, and the soldiers of Xanthi to compel obedience, we could
lay a geas on whole nations without even having to be near them. We
could span immeasurable gulfs of space and contact minds on those
other worlds which philosophers think exist beyond the upper clouds.
We could, by thus heightening our own mental powers, think out the
very problems of existence, find the deepest secrets of nature, forces
beside which your devil-powder would be a spark. Drawing life-energy
from other bodies, we would never grow old, we would live forever.

"Tsathu--lords of Xanthi--I offer you a chance to become gods!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The stillness was broken only by the muttering and whispering of the
Xanthi among themselves. Mist drifted through the raw wet night of the
hall. The walls seemed to waver, shift and blur like smoke.

"Why could we not do this in our own nation?" asked Tsathu.

"Because, as you yourself said, the Xanthi do not have the latent
mental powers of humans--save for you few who are the masters. It must
be mankind who is controlled, with the commoners of your race as
overseers."

"And why could we not kill you and do this ourselves?"

"Because you do not understand humans. The differences are too great.
You could never control human thoughts as Chryseis or I could."

Another Xanthian spoke: "But do you realize what this will do to the
human race? Your Achaerans will become mindless machines under such
control. Drained of life-energy, they will age and die like animals. I
doubt that any will live ten seasons."

"What of that?" shrugged Chryseis. "There are other nations nearby to
draw on--Conahur, Norriki, Khemri, ultimately the world. We will have
centuries, remember--we will never die!"

"And you do not care for your own race at all?"

"It will no longer be our race," said Shorzon. "We will be gods,
thinking and living and wielding such powers as they--as we ourselves
right now--could never dream. Why, do what you will with our men here,
to start. What does it matter?"

"But do not harm the yellow-haired man from Conahur," said Chryseis
sharply. "He's mine--forever."

Tsathu sat thinking, like the statue of a Khemrian beast-god cast in
shining gold. Slowly, at last, he nodded, and an eerie sigh ran down
the long table as the lords of the Xanthi hissed agreement.

"It will be done," said Tsathu.

Corun stumbled back down the tunnel, reckless of discovery,
blind and deaf with madness that roared in his skull.
Chryseis--Chryseis--Chryseis--

It was not the horror of the scheme, the ruin that it would bring
even if it failed, the revelation of how immeasurably powerful were
the forces leagued against man. He could have stood that, and braced
himself to fight it as long as there was breath in his lungs. But
Chryseis--

_She_ had been part of it. She had helped plan it, had coldly condemned
her whole race to oblivion. She had lied to him, cheated him,
betrayed him, used him, and now she wanted him for a toy, an immortal
puppet--Witch! Witch! Witch!

Less human than the erinye at her feet, than the Xanthi themselves,
mad with a cold madness such as he had never thought could
be--_Chryseis, Chryseis, Chryseis, I loved you. With all my heart, I
loved you._

There was no hope in him, no longing for anything but the fullest
revenge he could take before they hewed him to the ground. Had the old
Xanthian wizard foretold he would bring death? Aye, by the mad cruel
gods who ruled men's destinies, he would!

He reached the corridor and began to run.


                                 VIII

Down a long curving ramp that led into a pit of blackness--the dungeons
could not be far, they lay this way--

He hugged himself into the shadows as a troop of guards went by. They
were talking in their hoarse croaking language, and did not peer into
the corners of the labyrinth. When they were past, Corun sped on his
way.

The stone walls became rough damp tunnels, hewed out of the living
rock under the castle. He groped through a blackness relieved only by
the occasional dull glow of fungi. The darkness hissed and rustled
with movements; he caught the glimmer of three red eyes watching, and
something slithered over his bare feet. A far faint scream quivered
down the hollow length of passages. It had shaken him when he was here
before, but now--

What mattered? What was important, save to kill as many of the monsters
as he could before they overwhelmed him?

The tunnel opened on a great cave whose floor was a pool of oily
black water. As he skirted its rim along a narrow slippery ledge,
something stirred, a misshapen giant thing darker than the night. It
roared hollowly and swam toward him. A wave of foul odor came with it,
catching Corun's throat in a sick dizziness.

He swayed on the edge of the pool and the swimmer began to crawl out of
it toward him. Corun saw its teeth gleam wetly in the vague blue light,
but there were no eyes--it was blind. He retreated along the ledge
toward the farther exit. The ground trembled under the bulk of the
creature.

Its jaws clashed shut behind him as he leaped free. Racing down the
tunnel, he heard the bellowing of it like dull thunder through the
reeking gloom. It wouldn't follow far, but that way of return would be
barred to him.

No matter, no matter. He burst out into another open space. It was
lit by a dim flickering fire over which crouched three armed Xanthi.
Beyond, the red light glimmered on an iron-barred doorway, and behind
that there were figures stirring. Men!

Corun bounded across the floor, the sword shrieking in his hand. It
whirled down to crash through the skull-bones of one guard. Before he
could free it, the other two were on him.

He ducked a murderous pike thrust and slipped close to the wielder,
stabbing upward with his dagger. The Xanthian screamed and hugged Corun
close to himself, fastening his jaws in the man's shoulder. Corun
slashed wildly, ripping open the throat. They tumbled to the ground,
locked in each other's arms, raging like beasts. Corun's knife glanced
off the Xanthian's ribs and he felt the steel snap over. He got both
hands into the clamped jaws, heedless of the fangs, and wrenched. The
jawbone cracked as he forced the reptile's mouth open.

He rolled from beneath the still feebly struggling creature and glared
around for the third. That one lay in a hacked ruin against the cell;
he had backed up too close to the bars, and the men inside still had
their weapons.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gasping, Corun climbed to his feet. An eager baying of fierce voices
rolled out from the cell; men gripped the bars and howled in maddened
glee.

"Corun--Captain Corun--get us out of here--let us out to rip Shorzon's
guts loose--Aaarrrgh!"

The Conahurian lurched over to a dead Xanthian at whose waist hung a
bundle of keys. His hands shook as he tried them in the lock. When he
got the door open, the men were out in a single tide.

He leaned heavily on an Umlotuan's arm. "What happened to you?" he
asked.

"The devils led us down here and then closed the door on us," snarled
the blue man. "Later a group of them in rich dress came down--and
suddenly we saw what a slavery we'd been in to Shorzon, suddenly
it no longer seemed that obedience to him was the only possible
thing--Mwanzi, let me at his throat!"

"You may have that chance," said the pirate. He felt strength
returning; he stood erect and faced them in the flickering fire-light.
Their eyes gleamed back at him out of the shadows, fierce as the metal
of their weapons.

"Listen," he said. "We might be able to fight our way out of here, but
we'd never escape across the Demon Sea. But I know a way to destroy
this whole cursed house and every being in it. If you'll follow me--"

"Aye!" The shout filled the cavern with savage thunder. They shook
their weapons in the air, gleam of red-lit steel out of trembling
darkness. "Aye!"

Corun picked up his sword and trotted down the nearest passageway. He
was bleeding, he saw vaguely, but he felt little pain from it--he was
beyond that now. The thing was to find the devil-powder. Tsathu had
said it was somewhere down here.

They went along tunnel after winding tunnel, losing all sense of
direction in the wet hollow dark. Corun had a sudden nightmare feeling
that they might wander down here forever, blundering from cave to empty
cave while eternity grayed.

"Where are we going?" asked someone impatiently. "Where are Xanthi to
fight?"

"I don't know," snapped Corun.

They came suddenly into another broad cavern, beyond which was another
barred door. Four Xanthi stood guard in front of it. They never had
a chance--the air was suddenly full of hurled weapons, and they were
buried under a pile of edged steel.

Corun searched the bodies but found no keys. In the murk beyond, he
could dimly see boxes and barrels reaching into fathomless distances,
but the door was held fast. Of course--Tsathu would never trust his
men-at-arms with entrance to the devil-powder.

The corsair snarled and grabbed a bar with both hands. "Pull, men of
Umlotu!" he shouted. "Pull!"

They swarmed close, thirty-odd big blue men with the strength of hate
in them, clutching the cell bars, grabbing each other's waists, heaving
with a force that shrieked through the iron. "Pull!"

The lock burst and they staggered back as the door swung wide.
Instantly Corun was inside, ripping open a box and laughing aloud to
see the black grains that filled it.

For a wild moment he thought of plunging a brand into the powder and
going up in flame and thunder with the castle. Coldness returned--he
checked himself and looked around for fuses. His followers would not
have permitted him to commit a suicide that involved them. And after
all--the longer he lived, the more enemies he'd have a chance to cut
down personally.

"I've heard talk of this stuff," said one of the men nervously. "Is it
true that setting fire to it releases a demon?"

"Aye." Corun found the long rope-like fuses coiled in a box. He knotted
several together and put one end into the powder. The ignition of one
container would quickly set off the rest--and the cavern was huge, and
filled with many shiploads of sleeping hell.

"If we can fight our way to our ship, and get clear before the fire
reaches the powder--" began the Umlotuan.

"We can try that, I suppose," said Corun.

He estimated the burning time of his fuse from memories of the use he'd
seen the Xanthi make of the devil-powder. Yes, there would be a fair
allowance for escape, though he doubted that they would ever reach the
strand alive.

He touched a stick from the fire to the end of the fuse. It began to
sputter, a red spark creeping along it toward the open box. "Let's go!"
shouted Corun.

They pounded along the tunnel, heedless of direction. There should be
an upward-leading ramp somewhere--ah! There it was!

Up its length they raced, past levels of the dungeons toward the main
floor of the castle. At the end, there was a brighter blue light than
they had seen below. Up--up!

Up--and out!

       *       *       *       *       *

The chamber was enormous, a pillared immensity reaching to a ceiling
hidden in sheer height; rugs and tapestries of the scaled Xanthian
weave were strewn about, and their heavy, intricately carved furniture
filled it. At the far end stood a towering canopied throne, on which
sat a huge golden form. Other shapes stood around it, and there were
pikemen lining the walls at rigid attention.

Through the haze of mist and twilight, Corun saw the black robe of
Shorzon and the flame-colored cloak of Chryseis. He shrieked an oath
and plunged for them.

A horn screamed and the guards sprang from the walls to form a line
before the throne. The humans shocked against the Xanthi with a fury
that clamored through the building.

Swords and axes began to fly. Corun hewed at the nearest grinning
reptile face, felt the sword sink in and roared the war-cry of Conahur.
He spitted the monster on his blade, lifted it, and pitchforked it into
the ranks of the guards.

Tsathu bellowed and rose to meet him. Suddenly the Xanthian king was
not there; it was a tentacled thing from the sea bottom that filled the
room, a thing whose bloated dark body reared to the ceiling. Someone
screamed--fear locked the battlers into motionlessness.

"Magic!" It was a sneering rattle in Corun's throat. He sprang into the
very body of the sea creature.

He felt the shock of striking its solid form, the rasp of its hide
against him, the overwhelming poisonous stench of it. One tentacle
closed around him. He felt his ribs snapping and the air popping from
his burst lungs.

It wasn't real, his mind gasped through the whirling agony. It wasn't
real! He plowed grimly ahead, blind in the illusion that swirled around
him, striking, striking.

Dimly, through the roaring in his nerves, he felt his blade hit
something solid. He bellowed in savage glee and smote again, again,
and again. The smashing pressure lifted. He sobbed air into himself
and looked with streaming eyes as the giant form dissolved into smoke,
into mist, into empty air. It was Tsathu writhing in pain at his feet,
Tsathu with his head nearly chopped off. It was only another dying
Xanthian.

Corun leaped up onto the throne and looked over the room. The guards
and the sailors were still standing in shaken silence. "Kill them!"
roared the pirate. "Strike them down!"

Battle closed again with a snarl and a clang of steel. Corun glared
around after other Xanthi of the sorcerer breed. There were none in
sight; they must prudently have fled into another part of the castle.
Well--let them!

But other Xanthi were swarming into the chamber, battle horns were
hooting and the guttural reptile voices crying a summons. If the humans
were not to be broken by sheer numbers, they'd have to fight their way
out soon....

And down in the dungeons a single red spark was eating its way toward a
box of black powder.

Corun jumped down again to the floor. His sword leaped sideways, cut a
Xanthian spine across, bit the tail from another. "To me!" he bawled.
"Over here, men of Umlotu!"

The blues heard him and rallied, gathering into compact knots that
slashed their way toward where his dripping sword whined and thundered.
He never stopped striking; he drove the reptiles before him until they
edged away from his advance.

The men formed into one group and Corun led it across the floor in a
dash for the looming doorway. A red thought flashed across his brain:
Where were Shorzon and Chryseis?

The Xanthi scattered before the desperate human rush. The men came out
into a remembered hallway--it led to the outside, Corun recalled. By
Breannach Brannor, they might escape yet!

"Corun! Corun, you sea-devil! I knew it was your doing!"

The Conahurian turned to see Imazu bounding toward him with a bloody ax
in one hand. Imazu--thank all the gods, Imazu was free!

"I heard a noise of fighting, and the tower guards went off toward it,"
gasped the Umlotuan captain. "So I came too. On the way I met Shorzon
and Chryseis."

"What of them?" breathed Corun.

The blue warrior smiled savagely and flung a red thing down at Corun's
feet. "There's Shorzon's scheming head. My woman is free!"

"Chryseis--"

Imazu leaned on his ax, panting.

"She launched her erinye at me. I ducked into a room and slammed the
door in its face, then came here through another entrance."

Chryseis was loose--"We've got to get clear," said Corun. "The
devil-powder is going to go off any time now."

The Xanthi were rallying. They came at the humans in another rush.
Corun and Imazu and their best men filled the corridor with a haze of
steel, backing down toward the outer portal.

It was a crazy blur of struggle, hewing at faces that wavered out of
night, slapping down thrusts and reaching for the life of the enemy.
Men fell, and others took their places in the line. Down the corridor
they retreated, fighting to get free, and they left a trail of dead.

The end of the passage loomed ahead. And the monstrous iron door was
swinging shut.

Chryseis stood in the entrance. A wild storm-wind outside sent her
cloak flapping about her, red wings beating in the lightning-shot
darkness about the devil's rage of the goddess face.

"Stay here!" she screamed. "Stay here and be cut down, you triple
traitor!"

The nearest Umlotuan sprang at her. The door clashed shut in his
face--they heard the great bolt slam down outside. They were boxed in
the end of the hall, and the Xanthi need only shoot them down with
arrows.

Down in the dungeons, the fuse burned to its end. A sheet of flame
sprang up in the opened box of powder, reaching for the stacks around
it.


                                  IX

The first explosion came as a muffled roar. Corun felt the floor
tremble under his feet. Men and Xanthi stood motionless, looking at
each other with widening eyes in which a common doom arose.

So it ended. Shorzon and Tsathu and their wizard cohorts would be gone,
but Chryseis, mad, lovely Chryseis, was loose, and the gods knew what
hell she could brew among the leaderless Xanthi.

The walls groaned as another boom echoed down their length.

Well, death came to every man, and he had not done so badly. Corun
began to realize how weary he was; he was bleeding from wounds and
breath was raw in his lungs.

The Umlotuans hammered on the door in panic. But the twenty or fewer
survivors could never break it down.

The devil-powder roared. The floor heaved sickeningly under Corun's
feet. He heard the crash of collapsing masonry.

Wait--wait--one chance! One chance, by the gods!

"Be ready to run out when the walls topple," he shouted. "We'll have a
little time--"

The Xanthi were fleeing in terror. The humans stood alone, waiting
while the explosions rolled and banged around them. Cracks zigzagged
across the walls, dust choked the dank air.

_Crash!_

Corun saw the nearer wall swaying, toppling. The floor lifted and
buckled and he fell to the lurching ground. All the world was an
insanity of racket and ruin.

The lintel caved in, the portal sagged. Corun leaped for the opening
like a pouncing erinye. The men swarmed with it, out through the
widening hole while the roof came down behind them.

Someone screamed, a faint lost sound in the grinding fury of sundering
stone. Rocks were flying--Corun saw one of them crack a man's head like
a melon. Wildly he ran as the outer facade came down.

There was a madness of storm outside, wind screaming to fill the
sky, driving solid sheets of rain and hail before it. The incessant
blinding lightning glared in a cold shadowless brilliance, the bawling
thunder drowned the roar of exploding devil-powder. They fought out
through the courtyard, past the deserted outer gate.

There came a blast which seemed to crack the sky. Corun was knocked
down as by a giant's fist. He lay in the mud and saw a pillar of flame
lift toward the heavens with the castle fountaining up on its wings.
Thunder roared over the earth, shouting to the storm that raged in the
heavens.

Corun picked himself up and leaned dizzily against a tree stripped
clean by the blast. Rain slanted across the ground, churning the mud
beneath his feet, the livid lightning-glare blazing above. Vaguely,
through ringing, deafened ears, he heard the wild clamor of the sea.
Looking down the cataract which the upward trail had become, he saw the
_Briseia_ rocking in the wind where she lay on the beach.

He gestured to Imazu, who staggered up to join him. His voice was
barely audible over the shouting wind: "Take the men down there. We
can't sail in this storm, but make the ship fast, stand guard over her.
If I'm not back when the storm is done, start for home."

"Where are you going?" cried the Umlotuan.

"I'll be back--maybe. Stay with the ship!"

Corun turned and slogged across the ground toward the jungle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Weariness was gone. He was like a machine running without thought or
pain until it burned out. Chryseis would have fled toward high ground,
he thought dully.

Behind him, Imazu started forward, then checked himself. Something
of the ultimate loneliness that was in Corun must have come to the
Umlotuan. It was not a mission on which any other man might go. And
they had to save the ship. He gestured to his few remaining men and
they began the slow climb down to the beach.

The castle was a heap of shattered rock, still moving convulsively as
the last few boxes of devil-powder exploded. The rain boiled down over
it, churning through the fragments. Lightning flamed in the berserk
heavens.

Corun pushed through underbrush that clutched at his feet and clawed
at his skin. The sword was still hanging loosely in one hand, nicked
and blunted with battle. He went on mechanically, scarcely noticing the
wind-whipped trees that barred his way.

It came to him that he was fighting for Khroman, the thalassocrat of
Achaera, ruler by right of conquest over Conahur. But there were worse
things than foreign rule, if it was human, and one of the greater evils
had fled toward the mountain.

Presently he came out on the bare rocks above the fringe of jungle
growth. The rain hammered at him, driven by a wind that screamed like
a maddened beast. Thunder boomed and rolled overhead, a roar of doom
answering the thud of his heart. The water rushed over his ankles,
foaming down toward the sea.

She stood waiting for him atop a high bare hill. Her cloak was drawn
tightly about her slender body, but the wind caught at it, whipped and
tore it. Her rain-wet hair blew wild.

"Corun," she called under the gale. "Corun."

"I am coming," he said, not caring if she heard him or not. He
struggled up to where she stood limned against the sheeted fire in
heaven. They faced each other while the storm raged around them.

"Corun--"

She read death in his eyes as he lifted the sword. Her form blurred,
the outlines of a monster grew to his eyes.

He laughed bitterly. "I know what your magic is," he said. "You saw me
kill Tsathu."

She was human again, human and lovely, a light-footed spirit of the
hurricane. Her face was etched white in the lightning-glare.

"Perias!" she screamed.

The erinye crept forth, belly to the ground, tail lashing. Hell glared
out of the ice-green eyes. Corun braced himself, sword in hand.

Perias sprang--not straight at the man, but into the air. His wings
caught the wind, whirling him aloft. Twisting in mid-flight, he arrowed
down. Corun struck at him. The erinye dodged the blow and one buffeting
wingtip caught the man's wrist. The sword fell from Corun's hand. At
once the erinye was on him.

Corun fell under that smashing attack. The erinye's fangs gleamed above
his throat, the claws sank into his muscles. He flung up an arm and the
teeth crunched on it, grinding at the bone.

[Illustration: _Corun fell under that smashing attack ... fangs
gleamed, and claws sank into his muscles...._]

Corun wrapped his legs in a scissor-lock around the gaunt body,
pressing himself too close for the clawed hind feet to disembowel him.
His free hand reached out, gouging--he felt an eyeball tear loose, and
the erinye opened his mouth in a thin scream. Corun pulled his torn
arm free. He struck with a balled fist at the devil-beast and felt his
knuckles break under the impact. But bone snapped. Perias' jaw hung
suddenly loose.

The erinye sprang back and Corun lurched to hands and knees. Perias
edged closer, stiff-legged. Corun stumbled erect and Perias charged.
One great wing smashed out, brought the man toppling back to earth.
Perias leaped for his exposed belly.

Corun lashed out with both feet. The thud was dull and hollow under
the racketing thunder. Perias tumbled back and Corun sprang on him.
The barbed tail slashed, laying Corun's thigh open. He fell atop the
struggling beast and got his free hand on the throat.

The mighty wings threshed, half lifting man and erinye. Corun pulled
himself over on the writhing back. He locked legs around the body, arms
around the neck, and heaved.

The erinye yowled. His wings clashed together with skull-cracking
force, barely missing the head of the man who hugged his back. His tail
raked against Corun's back, seeking the vitals. Corun gave another
yank. He felt the supple spine bending. Heave!

Perias lifted a brassy scream. The strange dry sound of snapping
vertebrae crackled out. Corun rolled away from the threshing form.

Perias gasped, lifted his broken head, and looked with filming green
eyes at Chryseis where she stood unmoving against the white fire of the
sky. Slowly, painfully, he dragged himself toward her. Breath rattled
in and out of his blood-filled lungs.

"Perias--" Chryseis bent over to touch the great head. The erinye
sighed. His rough tongue licked her feet. Then he shuddered and lay
still.

"Perias."

Corun climbed to his feet and stood shaking. There was no strength left
in him--it was running out through a dozen yawning wounds. The ground
whirled and tilted crazily about him. He saw her standing against the
sky and slowly, slowly, he came toward her.

Chryseis picked up a stone and threw it. It seemed to take an immense
time, arcing toward him. Some dim corner of his buckling consciousness
realized that it would knock him out, that she could then kill him with
the sword and escape into the hills.

It didn't matter. Nothing mattered.

The stone crashed against his skull and the world exploded into
darkness.


                                   X

He woke up, slowly and painfully, and lay for a long time in a state
of half-awareness, remembering only confused fragments of battle and
despair.

When he opened his eyes, he saw that the storm was dying. Lightning was
wan in the sky, and thunder mumbled farewell. The wind had fallen, the
rain fell slow and heavy down on him.

He saw her bending over him. The long wet hair tumbled past her face
to fall on his breast. He was wrapped in her cloak, and she had ripped
bandages from her robe for his hurts.

He tried to move, and could only stir feebly. She laid a hand on his
cheek. "Don't," she whispered. "Just lie there, Corun."

His head was on her lap, he realized dimly. His eyes questioned her.
She laughed, softly under the falling rain.

"Don't you see?" she said. "Didn't you think of it? Shorzon's geas was
put on me as a child. I was always under his will. Even when he was
dead, it was strong enough to drive me along his road.

"But I love you, Corun. I will always love you. My love warred with
Shorzon's will even as I tried to kill you. And when I saw you lying
there helpless, after such a fight as no man has ever waged since the
gods walked the earth--

"I tried to stab you. And I couldn't. Shorzon's geas was broken."

Her hands stroked his hair. "You aren't too badly hurt, Corun. I'll
get you down to the ship. With my witch's powers, we can win through
any Xanthi who try to stop us--not that I think they will, with their
leaders destroyed. We can get safely to Achaera."

She sighed. "I will see that you escape my father's power, Corun. If
you will return to the pirate life, I will follow you."

He shook his head. "No," he whispered. "No, I will take service under
Khroman, if he will have me."

"He will," she vowed softly. "He needs strong men. And someday you can
be thalassocrat of the empire--"

It wasn't so bad, thought Corun drowsily. Khroman was a good sort. A
highly placed Conahurian could gradually ease the burdens of his people
until they had full equality with Achaera in a united and peaceful
domain.

The menace of the Xanthi was ended. To be on the safe side, Achaera had
better make them tributary; an expedition which he, Corun, could lead.
After that, there would be enough to keep a man busy. As well as the
loveliest and best of women for wife.

He slept. He did not waken when Imazu led a squad up in search of him.
Chryseis laid a finger on her lips and a flash of understanding passed
between her and the captain. He nodded, smiling, and clasped her hand
with sudden warmth.

They bore the sleeping warrior back through the rain, down to the
waiting ship.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WITCH OF THE DEMON SEAS ***

***** This file should be named 64049-0.txt or 64049-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    https://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/0/4/64049/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

