The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Bryd, by Noel Loomis

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Bryd

Author: Noel Loomis

Release Date: December 17, 2020 [EBook #64063]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BRYD ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                               The BRYD

                            By NOEL LOOMIS

             Being immortal, the Bryd was a very wise and
            resourceful Thing--but even so, the problem of
             saving Dale Stevenson was a dilly. So _much_
               had to be done in one-fourth of a second!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories May 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The Bryd was awakened with a rude jolt. It didn't even have time for
a mental yawn. Something terrible was going on in Dale Stevenson's
mind, and the turmoil there made the Bryd most uncomfortable. It shook
off the lethargy of its long sleep. It knew instinctively that Dale
Stevenson was about to get in trouble and make his mind unsuitable for
the Bryd's occupancy.

The Bryd sighed. These humans were so unstable, so impulsive. The Bryd
took a look around.

They--Dale Stevenson and he--were not on Earth. They seemed to be in
space somewhere, 5,100 miles from Earth. Well, well, so men finally
were breaking the shackles of gravitation. The Bryd became a little
more interested.

But Dale Stevenson was reaching for a button that would fire a rocket
to position the mirror and burn a path across the biggest city in
Europe. Hey! what was going on here, anyway?

The Bryd had about a quarter of a second to do a lot of research. What
was Dale Stevenson doing up here? What had he done with himself in
the twenty-four years since the Bryd had curled up in the boy's cozy
four-year-old mind and settled down for a long nap?

The Bryd could have stayed Dale's hand for a while, but the Bryd very
much believed in minding its own business. It didn't like to interfere
with humans; that was policy. So it decided to get busy. It had a
quarter of a second to find out things and decide what, if anything, to
do about them. Certainly it couldn't expect to stay comfortably in a
mind as upset as Dale Stevenson's ... so it got busy.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first thing to do was get oriented. The Bryd took a quick look
around. Dale Stevenson, doctor of physics, was in charge of this
sun-station, which was a man-made island in space, some three miles
in diameter. The rim of the island was composed mainly of a steel
framework like the rim of a wheel, with little cabins at various
intervals to house a power plant, various controls, rocket berths,
repair shops, and living quarters for the sun-station's crew.

The center area of the sun-station was a giant mirror, three miles
across, made up of thin sheets of metallic sodium fastened to a
skeleton of wire nets. The sodium was very light in weight, and being
in airless and heatless space, was inert. Also it was highly reflective.

The whole business was kept at a point approximately 5,100 miles from
Earth, where Earth's gravitational attraction approached neutrality and
where the entire space-station could be maintained in a given position
or moved at will with a minimum expenditure of energy.

Technically the station was owned by Night Sun, Inc., along with nearly
a hundred others around Earth, and this particular station, No. 18, was
under contract to furnish illumination at night over Paris, France, by
staying out of Earth's shadow and reflecting sunlight on Paris during
the night.

Management of such a station involved many mathematical factors in
distance, triangulation with Paris, velocity and angulation, and
control of the curve of the mirror. Normally this was a parabolic
curve, but it was constantly varied with other factors to produce the
desired degree of illumination.

No. 18 was under the sole control of Dale Stevenson, who had been
psych-tested and certified by the United Nations licensing board.

That made the Bryd feel a little better. It looked as if he had made a
mistake twenty-four years ago, but it also looked as if the licensing
board had been fooled within the last year, for Dale certainly was
getting ready to cause a lot of trouble in Paris. He could actuate the
controls to expand or contract the rim of the station and thus vary the
focal length of the sodium lens, and if he should actually concentrate
the sun's rays in a small area, he could draw a flaming path of ruin
through the center of Paris.

Reluctantly the Bryd checked again, and found that that was exactly
what Dale Stevenson was about to do. The Bryd wondered why. It groaned.
Humans were always up to something. Why couldn't they relax so the Bryd
could rest?

The Bryd had been so happy back in 2250--or let's see, was it _up_ in
2250? (This was 2045.) That was when Bob What's-his-name and that cute
girl had landed on Pluto and given him a chance to get away. The long,
lonely eons in Pluto's absolute zero had been quite monotonous to the
Bryd, which was nothing but pure energy but which certainly had its
feelings. After almost a third of a billion years marooned on Pluto it
had sometimes almost wished it had not been so adventurous in its youth
and hopped that stray comet as it had swept by its home on Arcturus.

For it had tired of the comet and jumped off on Pluto, and then had
discovered it didn't have enough range of its own to get from Pluto to
another planet. Then it was that Bob and Alys had come along on their
'round-the-system honeymoon, and the Bryd had hitched a ride to Earth
(unknown to them), for it was pretty darned lonesome by that time.

It lived very happily with them until they got old, and then it decided
to go back in time to 1950. There it found a nice friendly mind in Joe
Talbott, and after it saved Joe from blowing up the Lithium Mountain
and half the earth with it, it had settled down to snooze in Joe's mind
and hadn't awakened until Joe died of old age. Then the Bryd had hunted
a nice, stable mind and had finally picked Dale Stevenson, who was four
years old, and had curled up for another long, quiet snooze. But now it
was only twenty-four years later and Dale was in a bother.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Bryd went deeper into Dale's mind to see what was going on. Dale
was worried about something. In fact, he had worried so much it had
upset his normal mental balance. It seemed to have started back about
twenty years ago, a few years after the Bryd had entered Dale's mind.

It seemed that Dale's parents had been killed in an atomic blowup, and
Dale, eight years old, had been taken care of by his older sister.

"Don't you worry, Dale," she had told him stoutly. "I'll take good care
of you. And I'll buy your clothes and your school-books and everything.
You won't have to go to a home. I won't let them take you."

That's what Dale had been scared of--going to a home. He was happy
with Marillyn. She took good care of him, and somehow managed to keep
the authorities from finding out that a thirteen-year-old girl was
supporting a small boy.

Dale had understood all those things later, when he started to the
university and they became curious about his background. He realized
then what she had done.

"I'll remember all those things," he told her in the first fullness
of young maturity and his sudden realization of her loyalty. "You've
practically devoted your life to me. I appreciate it. You'll see," he
said, embarrassed in this new knowledge, but humbly grateful.

He got a chance to show her; for six months after his graduation, while
he was being trained at Station No. 18, he insisted that she should
come to visit his new post. Marillyn never had ridden a rocket because
she was afraid of them, but she recognized the honor he was conferring
on her, for very few persons but employees had ever set foot on a
sun-station. She agreed to go. Dale arranged passage. Then she was
severely injured in the take-off.

Dale was devastated. He called in specialists, consultants,
diagnosticians.

"Don't worry about it," he said. "I'll take care of everything. You'll
be all right in no time."

But she wasn't. She was badly crippled, paralyzed from the waist down,
and she became pitifully thin.

Dale spent most of his salary on her. Doctors told him it was useless,
nothing could help, that a part of her brain cells had been destroyed
and could not be rebuilt, that she might live fifty years but she would
always be helpless.

Dale refused to believe it. "She's got to get well," he said. "It isn't
right--after all the things she did for me. When she was just a kid
and should have been skating and dancing and going with boys, she was
working to keep me from going to a home. She's entitled to some fun
now."

But she didn't have a chance. Her recovery would have been contrary to
all medical experience.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dale's salary grew until he was getting twenty-five hundred a month,
but most of it he spent on Marillyn--largely against her wishes.

"Dale, I wish you wouldn't insist on trying every new-fangled cure
that comes along. I know what the situation is. I can read. I know I
won't get well. I can't. When that brain-tissue is destroyed, it's gone
forever. You go out and have some fun. Please."

But Dale, worried but stubborn, said, "Do you remember that winter you
sold papers on the street so I could have skates and a sled? Do you
think I can forget that?"

"I didn't mean it to become a burden to you," she said softly.

He smiled. "It isn't a burden. I'm doing these things because I want
to--because I want to see you active and pretty again. I'll do it, too.
You'll see. Next month you're going to the spa at Carlsbad."

She tried to dissuade him, but next month she was bundled up and
carried to the train to go to Prague.

It was in Prague that Dale met Ann Wondra, last daughter of a long line
of Polish nobility. Ann was dark-haired, quick-eyed, and she could
laugh in a way that warmed a man's blood. At any rate, she warmed Dale
Stevenson's.

They went hunting together. They ate dinner together. They rode
together. They visited Marillyn together, and after they came away
from Marillyn in her wheelchair, Ann said, when he stopped the car on
the top of a high hill in the moonlight from where they could see her
ancestral castle, "You're determined that she shall get well, aren't
you, Dale?"

"Of course," he said.

"What will you do if she doesn't?"

He refused to consider that. "She will," he said confidently.

By that time Dale's arms were tightly around her. So, for that matter,
were Ann's around Dale.

"You are quite sure," Ann said cautiously.

"I suppose," he said, in an abrupt humbleness, "it's a fixation by now.
It's something I recognize as a problem, and the best way to cure it is
to cure Marillyn. When I go out on a party, or when I am extravagant,
it nicks my conscience, because Marillyn made all these things possible
for me in the first place."

"It isn't your fault that she's an invalid, is it?"

"Not directly, no, although she didn't want to take that trip. However,
I don't think it's that as much as it is the feeling that if I get too
much interested in other things I might neglect her--that is, I might
be somewhere else doing something for fun just at the time when the
opportunity would come to get her cured. Do you see what I mean?"

"I think so," she said gently.

"For instance," he went on, very much concerned with making her
understand, "if I should spend a lot of money on other things--say, for
instance, that I should marry you and we'd build a home and all--that
would take a lot of money and it would make me unconsciously less eager
to find a cure for Marillyn because deep down I'd know I might not be
able to pay for it."

Ann drew back in her arms. Her black eyes reflected the starlight.
"Dale, what did you say? Did you say 'if I should marry you'?"

He looked back at her. "Uh-huh."

"You've never even said you loved me."

He kissed her very tenderly on the lips. "I do," he said.

Then they kissed so fiercely that the Bryd, listening in solely to get
an angle on this whole business, got excited and very nearly got stuck
crosswise in the time-stream.

       *       *       *       *       *

But two weeks later Dale went to his post on sun-station No. 18, and
started making Paris days last all night. Six months later he was back
for a visit, and Marillyn said, "I'd like to go home, Dale. After all,
you've done your part and much more. And this isn't helping me. It's
pleasant and all that, but it won't make me walk. I could go to the
sanatorium in Florida and it would be just as pleasant and much less
expensive. Then you could pursue a normal course of life."

Dale pretended to bristle. "What do you mean by that?"

Marillyn smiled. "Ann is in love with you, Dale. She visits me often,
and you should see her eyes sparkle when we mention you. Dale, will you
see her tonight?"

"Maybe I will," he said, "but there won't be any marriage until you are
well."

"You've been apart six months now," Marillyn said softly. "Maybe if you
see her you will change your mind."

Ann would be a wonderful wife. She was much like Marillyn--dark-haired,
quick-moving, dignified but warm, affectionate, and loyal. His wife
would have to be loyal, of course, like Marillyn. That was essential.

He hired a car that afternoon and drove out to the castle to surprise
Ann. He reached the grounds just before dark, so he parked the car on
the hill where Ann and he had been that last night. Maybe she and he
would walk back there later.

He started to walk through the grounds, and when he reached the flower
garden it was almost dark. He walked along the cinder-path by the
roses, then cut across the grass. He heard murmuring voices, and a
moment later he saw Ann walking in the garden. With her was a man, and
his arm was around her. The man stopped to snap off a rose. He turned
to Ann with a graceful, almost feminine gesture, and she smiled. Then
with elaborate and intimate motions he pinned the rose in her hair.

Dale was hurt. He went back quietly to the car. Of course he had not
asked her to marry him, but then he had mentioned it--and couldn't she
be loyal to his memory? Dale was filled with unexpected jealousy.

After a restless night he had just about rationalized the entire
situation. He knew the scene in the garden did not necessarily mean
anything. He would phone Ann, mention last night, and of course she
would explain. Then he picked up the morning telepaper from London and
read in the gossip column that Ann Wondra, the Polish beauty, might
soon announce her engagement to Georges Raoul Dumont, son of the French
ambassador. Dale was stricken--

And was still in that state of mind, the Bryd saw, when a man came to
his hotel room that afternoon. "You are in charge of sun-station No.
18, over Paris, I believe."

This was very interesting to the Bryd, because it saw that the man was
cleverly masked with a plastiform shell that did not at all appear to
be a mask.

"Yes," Dale said glumly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The man's eyes looked speculative. He glanced at the telepaper on
Dale's bed, and the Bryd, figuratively speaking--for of course the Bryd
was nothing but pure energy--opened its eyes. For the Bryd knew the
man's thought, and was astonished to learn that Dale had been closely
watched for some time. Following the scene in the flower garden, the
item in the telepaper had been especially arranged to produce a certain
reaction in Dale Stevenson without Ann Wondra's knowledge.

"You know, of course," the man said, "that France is about to disturb
world peace by invading Spain."

Dale sat up and frowned. "No, I didn't know it."

"It is true," the man said, watching him intently.

"Why are you telling me?"

The man cleared his throat significantly. "You might be in a position
to save the world from an atomic war."

Dale stiffened. "You must know," he said coldly, "what my position is.
I am in the employ of the United Nations, and any attempt to control my
actions is coercion and the penalty is death."

The man did not back away. He moved closer, and his eyes became black
points of force. The Bryd saw that the man had mental powers unusual
for that period of Earth's history.

"Look at me, Dale Stevenson."

Dale fought against it, but the man's will was powerful. Dale's
resistance weakened. The man's eyes never wavered from Dale's. He moved
still closer and spoke in a low tone. "Our information is that France
will drop atomic bombs on Spain's principal cities at three a.m. one
week from today. Suppose--just suppose--that some other nation--some
nation powerful enough to do so--should be in a position to warn France
at two-thirty that France would not be permitted to attack. Suppose
this warning were backed up with a show of force to prove the warning
meant business."

"Isn't that the job of the U.N.?"

The man's face was only inches now from Dale's. The Bryd shivered
in its figurative boots. This man was a master hypnotist. Only
they wouldn't call him a hypnotist in these days. They'd call him
a psyche-man. Psyche-control was much more powerful than hypnosis.
Psyche-control touched the moral inhibitions, which hypnosis never had
been able to do.

Dale was lost. In the end he agreed, for a cash-on-delivery fee of
one hundred thousand dollars, to concentrate his sodium mirror beam
on Paris at two-thirty of the morning designated, and thereby, with a
smoking path of fire and ruin, help the other nation to warn France
that she must keep hands off Spain.

Perhaps Dale's jealousy of Georges Raoul Dumont had a bearing on the
agreement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dale had been so much under the foreign agent's influence that he had
not considered the ethics of the idea at all until time to press the
button that would concentrate the sun-energy into a consuming column of
fire. The time was now ... and it was only now, with the hypnosis just
beginning to wear off at the edges, that he found himself wondering
vaguely about angles of the situation that previously had not occurred
to him.

Who was the man who had talked to him? Whom did he represent? Why
hadn't he gone to the U. N. if he knew so much?

But then it was true, as the man had said--if France planned to start
dropping atomic bombs at three o'clock, it would be too late to appeal
to the U.N. Dale didn't like Frenchmen anyway.

Altogether, the Bryd concluded, Dale Stevenson was pretty muddled up in
his mind. The man needed a rest, but that could be worked out later.
Right now his finger was on the firing-button, and the psyche-control,
though weakened, was pushing him to finish the job.

[Illustration: Dale Stevenson's finger was just starting to move the
button....]

Oh dear, these humans certainly could muddle things.

The Bryd decided to have a look at Ann Wondra's mind. And there it got
somewhat startled, for Ann's, which previously had been all warm and
cozy as toast, was very low indeed. She was looking at a snapshot of
Dale, and it wasn't even a very good picture, but it exhilarated her
and at the same time it depressed her, because she wanted Dale but
couldn't have him.

Ann was sitting cross-legged on a thick rug, drinking Darjeeling tea,
and talking to her mother.

"I'm glad M. Dumont has gone back home," she said, and the Bryd noted
that there wasn't any jump in her blood-pressure when she mentioned
Georges' name--well, not much, anyway.

"He's very handsome," said her mother, knitting busily. The old lady's
blood-pressure jumped more than Ann's.

"But he isn't as nice as Dale Stevenson."

"My sakes, Ann, I hope you don't grow to be an old maid, mooning over
that tongue-tied--"

"Mother!" Ann got to her feet. She was long-legged and clean-limbed.
The Bryd approved of her. It could imagine by now what she had done to
Dale's mind. It didn't see how it had slept through it.

So the Bryd took a quick transition back to America and had a look
at the mind of the doctor who took care of Marillyn Stevenson. The
physician was having lunch with a consultation expert.

"You know," the doctor said, fingering a Manhattan--"I don't know what
to do about young Dale Stevenson. He's still trying to cure his sister."

"Maybe there's a reason."

"Sure there's a reason. He has this feeling of gratitude and loyalty
and all. That's all there is to it, but he's butting his head against
the infinite inertia. He's spending two thousand a month on that
girl--and the worst of it is, she doesn't want him to. She knows what
the score is and she's resigned to it."

"Well, loyalty is a wonderful thing, but I suppose it can go too far,
and over-shadow reason, especially in the young. Is there any chance at
all for the girl?"

"No possibility. Progressive degeneration of the brain-tissue." He
tossed off the Manhattan and the Bryd shuddered--it preferred Martinis,
itself. "The only thing would be a miracle, and you know how scarce
they are in the medical world." He smiled. They both smiled. The Bryd
mentally snorted. Who were they, to laugh at miracles? They thought
they were pretty damn' smart, didn't they?

The Bryd decided it had better look in on Marillyn.

       *       *       *       *       *

It found her in a glassed-in porch of the sanatorium, with her
reclining chair facing south, and the sun pouring down through the
magnolias. The Bryd liked this. Everything was restful and peaceful
and pleasant--

But something was wrong as hell in Marillyn's mind.

She had a small bottle of something in one hand under the light
blanket, and she was lying back running over everything in her mind.
Dale loved Ann and Ann loved Dale. But they couldn't get married
because of Dale's exaggerated sense of duty.

Marillyn didn't want to keep them apart. She could adjust herself to a
very pleasant life in a place like this, but Dale wouldn't let her. As
fast as he could save some money, he'd dream up some new scheme to get
her cured.

Well, Marillyn reasoned, she wasn't of any use to anybody. Why should
she stay in Dale's way? The Bryd was puzzled. What did she think she
could do?

She had the little bottle under the blanket, she was thinking. A few
drops of that and--the Bryd was positively flabbergasted. The girl
was getting ready to kill herself. The Bryd probed into her mind for
an instant and discovered that she wasn't being a martyr and had no
complexes; she was just trying to straighten things out for Dale and
Ann.

Oh, beans, thought the Bryd. If humans weren't the dumbest beings ever!
It watched Marillyn raise the bottle to her lips. It simultaneously
took the form of a nurse, standing there at Marillyn's side, and
Marillyn gasped and said, "Oh, nurse, I didn't know you were there."

"I am," said the Bryd in its best contralto voice. "Did you wish
something, Miss?"

The hand with the bottle of poison fell back under the blanket. "No, I
didn't call."

"May I move your chair out of the sun, Miss?"

"It isn't in the sun," Marillyn said.

The Bryd raised its eyebrows. It did some quick work on the wind, and
there was the sun, shining steadily through an opening in the magnolia
trees.

"Perhaps it _is_ too bright," said Marillyn. "If you'd just move it
over there--"

The Bryd was delighted. In the process of moving the chair, it got its
figurative hands on the bottle and disintegrated it. Then it said,
"Miss, don't you think you will get well?"

Marillyn said calmly, resignedly, "There's no chance. None whatever.
When brain-tissue is gone, there is nothing medical science can do.
They can't build tissue, you know."

"Oh?" said the Bryd.

"Only a miracle," said Marillyn. "And miracles don't happen in medical
science."

The Bryd almost snorted aloud. Oh, they didn't, hey? It--

The head nurse came striding up, her leather heels clacking on the
tile floor. "Miss--" She looked puzzled. "Who are you, anyway?" she
demanded. "I've never seen you before."

These women! Maybe the Bryd was getting peevish in its old age, but why
couldn't people mind their own business for a change?

It resolved itself into a doctor, and it was gratified to watch the
head nurse's eyes shoot open.

"Madam," the Bryd said in its best baritone, "were you addressing me?"

"I--" The head nurse swallowed. "No, sir, I--I beg your pardon, sir."
She recovered slightly. "Have I seen you before, sir?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Oh, bother! Details, details! Humans wouldn't be happy if they weren't
tied up in details all the time. The Bryd dematerialized and went
inside the sanatorium by the simple process of flowing through the
spaces around the nuclei of the atoms in the wall. Then, on second
thought, it went back and erased some memories from the mind of the
head nurse; then it took Marillyn through the wall into the sanatorium.
It went into her mind and did some repair work that would have amazed
the finest brain surgeons on Earth. In a few months Marillyn's
paralysis would be gone and she would be well and happy. Miracles, did
they say? Well, they'd asked for it.

The Bryd was somewhat irked with itself for having interfered--but it
had been for the best.

It got on a tight beam and went back to sun-station No. 18. Dale
Stevenson's finger was just starting to move the button. There was
maybe a fiftieth of a second left.

The Bryd carefully implanted the knowledge of Marillyn's cure in a
corner of Dale's brain and sat back to await results. But in the next
hundredth of a second there was no response. Dale still was about to
turn the sun on Paris.

So the Bryd, now thoroughly disgusted, implanted the knowledge of Ann's
love in another corner of Dale's mind and then to its astonishment had
to jump fast to get out of the way.

Did that ever get results! Dale held his finger. He got up and rubbed
his forehead a moment. Then he went to the radio-phone. "Get me the
U.N. police headquarters in London," he said.

He stood there beating his brains to figure out what had gotten into
him, so the Bryd just felt around and erased a few memories, and
everything was all right. Then the Bryd climbed into its favorite cozy
spot in Dale's mind. The spot was still warm and snuggly. It began to
settle down--but then it remembered something.

It got up. It went back to Earth and hunted up the minds of the men who
were flying atom-bombs over France. The Bryd knew by now, of course,
that France herself had never had any atom-bombs.

The Bryd went into the minds of the foreign fliers and sent them back
to drop the atom-bombs on their own cities. After all, they had those
bombs and they apparently were the kind who wouldn't be satisfied until
they could drop them. The Bryd dusted off its hands and headed wearily
for sun-station No. 18. It hoped for many restful years ahead with Dale
and Ann.

If it didn't get them, the Bryd thought disgustedly, it had better try
to hitch a ride back to Pluto. At least it had had rest and quiet there.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Bryd, by Noel Loomis

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BRYD ***

***** This file should be named 64063.txt or 64063.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/0/6/64063/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
