ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Distress Signal, by Ross Rocklynne

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Distress Signal

Author: Ross Rocklynne

Release Date: December 30, 2020 [eBook #64175]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DISTRESS SIGNAL ***




                            DISTRESS SIGNAL

                           By ROSS ROCKLYNNE

            Marooned! On the cold satellite of a dying sun,
             light-years away from home.... For Rex there
            was only one escape. But Carl called it murder!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The years passed relentlessly, ticked off--one, two three, four--by the
big lone planet Worta as it moved with ponderous sureness around the
dying red star. Sometimes, in the first year after they were marooned,
the two runaway boys, Carl Wyant and Rex Oberling, crawled from the
grottoes, chambers and labyrinthine tunnels which the Wortans had
driven deep beneath the planet's crust, and with a chill lonesomeness
looked out into the vastness of space where the stars brooded. One of
those stars, thirty-five light-years away, was Sol, around which swung
the planet Earth! They could not think of Earth without a brightness
coming to their eyes.

Sometimes the younger boy, then seventeen, would whisper, "I wish we'd
never left home, Carl."

And Carl would say, "But we left. So let's take our medicine like men."

Yes, their leaving home, leaving their parents, their friends, their
whole world, could not be changed. Yet it seemed to them that their
punishment was out of all proportion to their crime. Thinking back on
it, Carl Wyant no longer remembered the petty grievance against his
parents which made him decide to run away.

Mainly, of course, it had been because his father dropped his keys to
the interstellar space-ship he had recently requisitioned from the
Space Council. Both Carl and his buddy, Rex, the young fellow who lived
next door and belonged to the same Scout Troop, had been caught up with
the idea of visiting the stars, without parental supervision. To visit
the stars! That was a thrilling thought.

At first they planned to be gone a month. But after landing on one
of the Centaurian planets, four and a half light-years away, the
tremendous excitement that gripped them burned away thoughts of their
parents, who must certainly be suffering agonies because of their
disappearance. Beyond Centauri were other stars--and others beyond
_them_.

They never tired as the sub-etheric warp hurled them through the dark
reaches of infinity at several times light-speed. For the first time,
they were living.

By this time, the alarm had gone throughout the known universe. Two
boys on the loose. Carl, an expert at Morse Code, deciphered the wild
dit-dit-da's.

"Boy, are they looking for us!"

Rex's deep chest came out. "We'll be pretty famous when we get back, I
guess." The thought pleased him. "Those smart alecs that always picked
on me at school will change their tune."

"Ah, Rex, nobody ever picked on you." Carl was slimmer than Rex, though
a year older. He added, "All you had to do was join in the fun and
you'd have got along swell."

A dangerous flush crept up from Rex's thick, powerful neck. "I say they
picked on me."

Carl said hastily, "Okay, okay." He dropped the subject. Sometimes Rex
could be pretty touchy. But he was handy to have around and most of the
time was a good guy. Both fellows had studied celestial navigation and
mechanics, but Rex had it all over Carl when it came to handling the
small ship, so Carl let him take the controls most of the time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly the ship had gone haywire. Neither Carl nor Rex was technician
enough to understand that the etheric warp engines had been overdriven.
The engines, down to the last accumulator cell, exploded with a mighty,
tearing roar that blew gaping holes in bulkheads, deck-plates, and
overheads. Carl was knocked out, but Rex held on.

He crash-landed the ship--on Worta, the lone planet of the unlisted,
dying red star. The ship landed in a snow-bank, and the heat of the
landing turned tons of snow into steaming, boiling water. By the time
they had inventoried the situation, there was a smooth lake of ice
around them and the ship was frozen in up to the edge of the airlocks.

Rex said shakily, "We'll have to use the auxiliary engines."

Which was a bit optimistic. The auxiliaries weren't etheric warpers.
They were rocket engines. The fuel a ship like this carried would
take it a few billion miles, but what was that in the vastness of
interstellar space, with the nearest solar system two light-years away?

Carl's long slim fingers bit mercilessly into the palms of his hands.
His voice was a thin cry of protest, drifting out over the sterile
vistas of Worta, the ice planet.

"Rex, we're done for. We can't get back. We're marooned."

They were marooned, but not done for. The Wortans found them one day
and took them to their city a thousand feet under the planet. These
Wortans, the few of them that remained, were quiet, kindly people. Ages
ago, they had fought their last retreat from the bitter surface cold.
They had dug beneath the crust. They were savages now, their former
mighty civilization forgotten, and were unlearned, save in agriculture
and the skillful breeding of such fur-and-meat-producing animals as the
_col_, the _friga_, the _hask-nor_. And, since they were human in form,
themselves, they accepted these strangers that came among them.

They never came to the surface of Worta, but that unexplainable sense
of theirs which enabled them to perceive disharmony, much as one
flinches at a sour discord, brought them up to investigate.

Carl was grateful to them for their simple wisdom, their understanding.
From the first, however, Rex was a "sour chord" among them. An inner
conceit, perhaps growing out of a race consciousness, painted him with
an unmasked hostility.

But it was all of a year after their arrival before M'hort, chief of
the Wortans, revealed his feelings to Carl. He drew Carl into his
_meegan_--his rock-dwelling--one day. M'hort was tall as Carl, but his
eyes were faceted and insect-like, great horny reptilian lumps stood
out on his bony-joints, and his smoothly-scaled skin reflected the
eternal fluorescence of this underground land like a polished mirror.

Carl's smile was rueful when M'hort explained about Rex. "Rex never was
one to get along with people. He told me you people don't like him."

"How sad!" said M'hort.

"He's never stopped dreaming that we might get back to Earth."

"If only," said M'hort, "he would join us at our festivals as you do!
If only he would laugh when we gather for meals! But, ah, he will do
none of these things. Many times he sits in his _meegan_ and broods.
You say he insists there is a way to return to your planet?"

Carl was embarrassed for his friend. "When we first landed," he
explained, "Rex thought that somehow we could use the auxiliaries."

"Ah, yes," said M'hort, trying hard to understand these things which
were strange to him. "The auxiliaries."

"You see, we can manufacture unlimited quantities of rocket fuel with
the fuel-generator that most ships carry. It's a catalytic process,
the raw material being any fairly dense rock.

"The auxiliaries were a sort of obsession with Rex. I couldn't control
him. In the few days before you found us, he manufactured seven or
eight tons of merbohydrate. He filled the ship full. I let him have his
way. We lifted the ship and left Worta. Rex was certain we could find
another planet and get back to Earth by a stepping-stone method."

"Ah, but there are no other planets near enough," said M'hort,
recalling this fact which Carl had previously taught him.

"Within light-years. As I say, I let Rex have his way until half the
fuel was used up. Then I had to fight him."

Carl looked ashamedly at his fists. "I knocked him out as we came back
to Worta. But somehow he never gave up the idea that we could use the
auxiliaries somehow."

"How very sad! And you say there is little chance of the Earth people
coming for you?"

"Very little. Worta and its sun aren't even entered in the _Star
Catalogue_. It's an unlisted system, although the Stellar Survey
Institution has been working like crazy the past hundred years to
survey the whole works."

M'hort touched the boy's hand sympathetically. "Someday they will come
for you! But, in the meantime, it would be wonderful if your friend saw
the futility of his ways."

       *       *       *       *       *

During the first year of their stay on Worta, Rex stayed close to Carl,
confiding in him, making those trips to the surface of the snowed-under
world. Then he took to wandering the great winding corridors and
chambers and dead underground cities of Worta alone. Carl would have
liked to explore with him, for there was an unending fascination in
this dying civilization. Once upon a time the Wortans had been great.
The quaint webbed architecture of the spired and domed buildings, the
delicate traceries, on the walls and the sculptured figures standing
in the squares--these were a timeless wonder. But Rex didn't want Carl
along, for Rex had closed up clam-like, his broad, square face held a
sullen fanaticism, and Carl knew he had his mind set on escape.

Carl went to Rex's _meegan_ and sat on his spider-silk chair and whiled
away the time by reading a scroll from the Wortan library until Rex
should return. Both Carl and Rex had learned the complex language, the
reading, the writing, the speaking of it, though Carl was much the more
proficient.

Rex came in silently, a big man-size fellow with pale, beardless
cheeks, dressed Indian-like in the thin, cured leather of the _col_.
His moccasins padded and Carl looked up from the scroll with a start.

Rex said shortly, "Hello, Carl." He threw himself on the pile of
sleeping-furs in the corner, locked his hands behind his head and
stared straight up at the fluorescent ceiling with hard, unblinking
eyes.

Carl uncomfortably put the scroll away. "Rex, I want to have a talk
with you."

"Shoot," said Rex.

"You're not making it very easy for yourself, Rex."

"Oh! You're going to start moralizing again!"

"I wouldn't call it moralizing. I'm getting fed up with the way you
act, if you want it straight. The Wortans are swell people and I get
along with them fine. But it's just as if I was marooned alone. What I
mean is, I don't have anybody to talk to."

Rex's lips curled in a half-smile. "Maybe you haven't treated me
half-decent, either, if you want to know it."

"_I_ haven't!"

"Nope. You want to stick here the rest of your life in these crummy,
cold, underground rat-holes. No soap. I'm going to get back to Earth
somehow."

"The auxiliaries," Carl said sarcastically.

Rex came to his knees with a violent motion, eyes burning. "Don't talk
to me like that, Carl! I've got a way to get out of here."

"Yeah?" Carl refused to be intimidated. "How's the master-mind going to
work it?"

Rex paused and then said slowly, "I'm going to create a distress
signal."

"Distress sig--" Carl stiffened incredulously. "Rex, you're nuts!"

Rex smiled a slow, secret, satisfied smile. "I don't think so. 'Member
when we were scouts? 'Member that time we got lost in the Big Neck
Valley? We burned green wood and got a smoky fire started and used a
blanket to send up a smoky SOS signal. We knew the rest of the troop
was somewhere near and would see the signal. They came and got us.

"Well, this is the same thing. We're lost. This solar system never has
been discovered, but we both know we're still in the known universe.
All around us, maybe no more than fifty or sixty light-days off, are
traffic lanes. Passenger ships, freighters. Then there's the SSI. It
has ships everywhere. I figure if we send out a distress signal they're
bound to see it over the sub-etheric, fifth-order ray detector. They'll
see that signal as soon as I get started."

Carl was quiet. He was worried. This was a turn of affairs he hadn't
expected. He remembered how fixed Rex's mind was on the subject of
escape. Too fixed. Almost fanaticism. He hoped with all his heart Rex
wasn't sick. Yet that the kid should kneel there, with that brightness
in his eyes, and suggest sending up a distress signal which was to be
sent across billions of miles of space--

"All right, Rex," he said gently. "I'm listening. You're to send up a
distress signal and attract the attention of a Stellar Survey ship."

A derisive smile grew on Rex's lips. "You're listening," he scoffed.
"Liar. You think I'm bats. But I'll show you."

He lay down again and turned his face to the wall and shortly Carl
heard his deep breathing. Carl left.

That was in the second year. But another year passed. Carl found
himself growing up. He had the shoulders of a man, and he could look
back with a whimsical ruefulness on the immaturity which had led him
and Rex to run away from home like callow ten-year-olds.

Carl longed for Earth, no less than Rex. Unlike Rex, he subdued the
longing, but whenever his lonesome thoughts threatened to engulf him he
diverted himself by climbing the thousand feet to the planet's surface.
It was on such a voyage that he found the space-ship gone.

Carl and Rex had agreed to leave the ship on an eminence, so that if
anybody did come they would see the ship and investigate. But the ship
was undeniably gone, and Carl knew Rex had taken it.

He stood on the icy mesa where they had parked it, and Carl looked out
on the drear vastness of Worta with sick eyes. He refused to believe
Rex had gone away and left him. He stayed there for hours, waiting,
then reluctantly went back into the bowels of Worta.

Rex showed up for the evening meal, though, taking his place at the
great long _yee_--the festival table--where the forty-odd Wortans who
remained had their meals. After the meal, Carl cornered him.

Rex twisted away from Carl's detaining hand. "I've got a right to take
a ride if I want to, haven't I?"

Carl felt guilty at having even asked, the way Rex put it. Rex did have
that right. Carl let it slide. But the frequent disappearance of the
ship troubled him increasingly. Every time he stood hip-deep in snow on
the upper world and saw the ship was gone, a chill worked through his
heart. He would find himself looking into the lowering dark sky at the
impersonal stars. Fastening his gaze on the dying red star around which
Worta revolved. It was not a large sun. In another million years it
would burn out. Then Worta would truly be dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was convinced there was more to Rex's use of the ship than the
loneliness of a nineteen-year-old wanting to take a ride. Rex had a
purpose. Yet he let it slide until the end of the fourth year. Then his
interference was not his doing. He was wandering far underground when a
runner came panting up.

"M'hort must see you in his _meegan_," the runner panted.

Carl went at once, heart constricted. Nothing ever happened in these
underground caves. Whatever M'hort wanted to see him about was urgent.

M'hort met him at the entrance and gripped his arm. His eyes bored into
Carl's. "I sense that something is wrong, friend Carl," he said. "It is
a great terror in my breast. It is about Rex, of course. I see--I see a
great flame. Now tell me what you know!"

Carl blurted out the story. "He's making plenty long trips someplace,"
he said huskily. "He's been caving in a big hillside of rock these past
couple years. Making merbohydrate."

M'hort's fear showed in his eyes. "There is no place for him to visit?"

"Not a planetary body within countless billions of miles."

M'hort paced. "We should not have this trouble," he said fretfully. "I
am most annoyed with Rex. Look at us of Worta. Do we not know we are
doomed, that the unhealthful conditions beneath Worta are producing a
sterility that will soon destroy us as if we had never been? Yet we are
gay and take what there is of life. Why must Rex make us all unhappy?
And I feel he is planning--something that can never be undone."

He hesitated. "Carl, this merbohydrate--it is dangerous?"

Carl laughed. "Just about the peppiest explosion known to the human
race." He touched M'hort's arm. "I'll find out what he's planning."

Carl went straight to the surface and stood in the cave opening, his
breath hanging in puffy clouds of white. Rex was at that moment letting
down the ship's gangplank. He wheeled the fuel-generator out on its
short tripod.

All day Carl watched as Rex set "pills" of merbohydrate into the rock
face of the snow-shorn, worked-over hill and detonated them. Tons of
chipped rock cascaded toward the mouth of the generator. Rex panted as
he worked with a square-point shovel. The twenty-pound merbohydrate
ingots came rolling out at the rate of one a minute. Rex carried the
ingots into the ship.

As the red star was about to settle for the night behind the
sharply-silhouetted horizon, Rex wheeled the generator back into the
ship. About that time, Carl panted up the hill to the mesa level.
"Rex!" he called.

Rex stood scowling near the airlock. Plainly, Carl was not welcome.

Carl panted, "Going for a ride?"

Rex's shoulders--broader by far than Carl's--bunched up. He growled,
"Yeah. _I'm taking a ride._"

"Swell. I'll go with you."

"Nope."

"Why not?"

Rex turned and, with a single motion, jumped to the edge of the
airlock. He jeered, "I don't want any boy scouts along with me this
trip. G'bye!"

Carl felt a rage he had never really shown Rex. He leaped. All it got
him was a bad fall on the slippery ice underfoot. When he finally got
to his feet, the airlock door was whining shut. A few seconds later,
the ship leaped away, the rocket apertures throwing out their blatting
swords of energy. The ship roared skyward.

Carl stood looking after it, a wet crawling on his skin. He was
terribly frightened. The worst part of it was, he didn't know what was
frightening him. He turned and started back down the ladders to the
underground city.

Four years, he thought, as he climbed the ladders down. Four years
we've been here. It seems forever since we ran away that night. And for
two of those years, Rex has been busy with something. Manufacturing
merbohydrate and taking trips out into space. Why?

_Distress signal!_

The two words hit him with smashing impact. He wrapped both hands
around the ladder, to keep himself from falling down the shaft. He
trembled and shook and dizzy spots grew in his eyes.

He raised his head and shouted, "The fool!"

The lonesome echoes of his own madness came crashing back at him. He
hugged the ladder and wept. He could not say why he was crying, except
he felt he had been betrayed somehow. He knew he was young, too young
to deal with this tremendous horror Rex was planning. And M'hort had
sensed that horror.

After awhile, he started climbing up again. There was a flame in his
heart, a heat that rived him, made him something less than human. He
was going to kill Rex if Rex didn't talk, didn't tell him the details
of the plan. As for the main plan, Carl already knew it.

On the surface, he waited. The sun came up, moved redly toward noon.
The space-ship came back. As Rex appeared in the opening airlock, face
perspiring, lips set with a cruel satisfaction that did not belong to
youth, Carl jumped him. It was over in a moment. Rex lay unconscious.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Rex came to, Carl had the ship in the sky again, driving toward
the dying red sun. He left the controls again, and stood over Rex, who
was rope-bound to a chair.

"I think," Carl said, his eyes burning, "I've put two and two together
at last. Took me a whale of a long time to do it, too. Now go ahead and
talk."

Rex's square face was set into a disinterested mold. He looked Carl up
and down, shrugged. "Sure, I'll talk. But it won't do any good, Carl.
It's already fixed. Nothing you can do can change it. And it's funny
you picked out today to check up on me."

"Just today?" Carl asked hollowly.

"Just today." Rex spoke so calmly it was as if all the acid bitterness
in him had been alkalized in one moment. For the first time in many
months, he was a kid again, without a secret thought, without an
equivocation on his lips.

Rex said, "There's two hundred thousand tons of merbohydrates out
there, Carl. It's taken me two years to manufacture the stuff. The most
powerful explosive ever invented.

"You see, Carl, I wasn't as crazy as you thought when I said I was
going to send up a distress signal. It's a matter of nine or ten hours.
And you can't stop it."

Carl stood with eyes closed, muscles iron-hard. "Rex," he said, "give
me the position coordinates of that two hundred thousand tons of
merbohydrate."

Rex gave him the coordinates. Carl set the ship on a slightly different
course. An hour passed. The Wortan sun grew until it was a red globe
glued to space.

Carl operated the photo-amplifiers, set the telescopic perilens into
position. Space expanded. In the vision plate grew a tiny dot that
seemed to rush rapidly into sight though it was still several hundred
thousand miles away. It resolved itself into detail--countless neatly
stacked and baled ingots of merbohydrate, each bale in turn attached to
another by short lengths of wire. The mass was a thirty-foot cube.

[Illustration: In the vision plate grew a tiny dot....]

In the matter of size, it was a speck in space.

In the matter of explosive potentialities, it was a bomb of untold
violence, falling toward the dying red star.

Carl got another notch of speed from the ship. He was abruptly aware
that sweat had formed stickily on his body. A blast of furnace heat was
already radiating from the bulkheads.

Behind him, Rex said derisively, "Save yourself the trouble. You can't
catch up with it. It's inside the boiling zone, you idiot.

"For two years, Carl, that mass of merbohydrate was on an orbit about
the sun. Every once in a while I'd come out and add more to the main
mass. Today I figured I had enough. I hauled it out of its orbit, took
it as close as I could to the sun. Right smack to the edge of the
boiling zone. Then I gave it a running start and let go. The sun and
the merbohydrate will meet at the convergence of their trajectories."

"Then what?"

Rex laughed. "Distress signal!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was hotter as they moved toward the sun. Carl was sopping. The very
air danced. Under him the chair was beginning to burn him. The cosmic
bomb was a full three hundred thousand miles inside the boiling zone.
Carl could never catch up with it. He wordlessly banked the ship in a
long half-circle that put it a hundred miles inside the boiling zone,
and then on the road out.

He poured in every ounce of power he could, while thoughts zig-zagged
crazily in his head. He had gone beyond rage. He had ascended the scale
of human emotion and he was numb.

When the ship was near Worta, he turned on Rex. "What," he said, "do
you expect to gain by this?"

"Rescue."

"What about the Wortans?"

A simmering violence burst in Rex's eyes. His muscles bulged against
his bonds. "The Wortans!" he mimicked. "The Wortans! If you love those
Wortans so much why don't you plan to live with them the rest of your
life? They never did like me, and that goes double."

Carl said gently, "You don't murder people you don't like."

"Murder?" the word came sharply. He relaxed. "They don't use their
sun. They won't miss it."

"How about their planet?"

Rex looked at him. Then his eyes shifted. He muttered, "The explosion
won't touch Worta. Too far away."

Carl said, "The explosion will rip that planet crossways and endways.
It'll turn it inside out. It'll tear it up into little pin-size lumps,
roast and boil the lumps, and dissipate the lumps into gases made of
dancing free electrons. That big gob of gas will puff itself out over
a few light-years of space, and that will be the end of Worta. Maybe
you didn't think of that. Or maybe you convinced yourself it wouldn't
happen."

A trapped expression grew on Rex's face. "It _won't_ happen!" he
shouted. He screamed, "Let me alone! Stop badgering me! You can't
change anything. I didn't know if it'd hurt Worta or not. I didn't
care any more. I came back to Worta to get you, just in case something
happened I didn't figure on. All I cared about was getting home. I want
to go home!"

He dropped his head, drawing in great tearing sobs, his broad shoulders
quaking.

Carl said calmly, "Well, we're going back to Worta to get the Wortans."

Rex raised his head, his face violent with protest. "We haven't got
time."

"We'll take time."

Rex cursed him viciously.

"In the meantime," Carl continued without change of tone, "sit there.
Start thinking. Think about M'hort and the other Wortans. Think of how
they saved our lives and accepted us as if we're part of them. Think of
all the hospitality you accepted at their _yee_."

Carl's voice was rising. "Think of their dead cities. Think of all the
dead men who built those cities and the artists who made those cities
beautiful with their statues and paints. Then think how you will have
destroyed all that."

Rex said nothing. Color was flooding from his face, his lips thinning
until they formed one pale slash across his face. Carl looked at him
with wordless contempt, then swung about to maneuver the ship for the
final thousand miles to a landing.

A gong sounded from the instrument board.

       *       *       *       *       *

It came so suddenly that Carl jumped halfway from the bucket-seat. He
gripped the edge of the board, eyes forced open so wide they hurt. He
waiting, knowing he had misheard. The gong came again.

Behind him, Rex made an insane gurgling noise. "They've come! They've
come!"

Carl's hands were shaking violently as he adjusted the teleview,
snapped in the audio. In the teleview gray clouds formed, took on
shape, and that shape became the head and shoulders of a man in the
trim, pale blue uniform of the Stellar Survey Institution.

Small muscles around the man's eyes and mouth contracted as he saw
Carl. He frowned. He said, "You are Carl Wyant and Rex Oberling?"

"Yes, sir," Carl said humbly.

"You will stay where you are. We will pick you up in seven hours. You
may consider that a command."

"Yes, sir," replied Carl. "But we can't obey it. I'd advise you, sir,
not to come within ten billion miles of the dwarf-red star. It's a
potential super-nova. We will meet you at--"

The officer's glance sharpened. "You're talking nonsense. Why is
Oberling bound in that chair?"

Carl said wearily, "It's a long story, sir. May I ask your present
position?"

The Stellar Survey man's image grew a little in the plate as he leaned
forward, as if to get a better look at Carl's face. He drew back. He
said, "We are at present roughly twenty-two light-days distant, viewing
you by instantaneous fifth-order reception."

"That's even better than ten billion miles, sir. If you stay where you
are and keep your beam on, we can signal you when we get a billion
miles from Worta. Then you can come forward and pick us up."

Before the officer could say what was starting on his lips, Carl banged
his hand excitedly on the instrument board and shouted hysterically,
"I'm warning you, sir. I'm warning you!"

The man looked unsettled. His glance wavered. "Very well, Wyant. It's
a strange proceeding, but I trust you. We will expect you." The screen
blanked.

Fifteen minutes later Carl landed the ship. He got up stiffly. Rex sat
motionless, eyes turned straight ahead, unblinking, unseeing.

"I'm leaving you here until I get the Wortans," Carl told him. "Don't
try anything silly."

Rex moved his head until his eyes rested on Carl's. He said quietly,
"Carl, for your own good, don't bother. Do you think for a minute the
Wortans are going to leave their planet at this stage of the game?
They're done for anyway. You wouldn't expect a bunch of corpses to get
out of their coffins and try a different coffin, would you? That's the
way it is with the Wortans."

When Carl said nothing, Rex said, in that same quiet voice, "Carl, I
_know_."

Carl turned uncertainly away, moved to the instrument board. His own
voice sounded far away. "I'll convince them," he said. "I'll bring them
back. They've _got_ to come."

Carl took all the keys out of the instrument board. Without the keys,
the ship was inoperable. He left the ship, stumbled as in a dream
across the dreary wastes of lifeless snow. Then, as the cold struck
deep at his lungs, his thoughts clarified, and he went with quick,
driven panic.

How soon the merbohydrate would strike the red star he had no idea.
But it would be soon. He made a break-neck descent. He burst into that
small section of one of the underground cities where the Wortans lived,
went straight to the _meegan_ of M'hort.

He told M'hort the whole story.

M'hort sat cross-legged. A resigned sadness lidded his eyes. Carl knew
his answer. He dropped to his knees. "No! You can't speak for the rest
of your people. They want to live. And the Wortans can still be great.
Why--why, we'll give you a planet in our own system!"

M'hort smiled as if at a secret, foolish thought, his eyes averted.
Then he arose and drew Carl up with him. His eyes glittered with the
reflected fluorescence of the underground. Carl was held rigid.

M'hort said, "You are youth, and you answer as youth would answer. I am
age, Carl, and I answer as only age can answer. We will stay.

"What is there to fear? What is there to grieve for? It is a great
providence that sent you here to us. You see! Soon we would all have
died, but lingeringly. Now there is glory to dying, for there will be
no ugly pain. And we will not be unknown to the other peoples of the
universe, Carl, for you will carry our immortality."

"That," said Carl, bitterly, "is a hell of an immortality."

M'hort laughed. "It is better than we expected. Now go."

And Carl went, blindly.

He reached the ship in less than an hour. He entered, dogged the
airlocks shut, went slowly toward the transparent door of the control
room. He threw open the door and stood looking at the empty chair and
the tattered strands of rope which had held Rex. He was drained of
emotion, though, and he leaned weakly against the door jamb. Finally he
moved, left the ship, and spent another hour looking for Rex.

He didn't find him. Rex had consciously obscured his tracks. He went
back to the ship, smiling without mirth. That was funny. Rex drove
himself crazy figuring out a way to get back to Earth for four years.
Then he backed out. He had chosen the same path as the Wortans, and
maybe for as good a reason....

       *       *       *       *       *

He drove straight away from the dying red sun. A billion miles out, he
was picked up by the stately ship of the Stellar Survey. He was ushered
into the presence of the officer who had appeared in the teleview
plate. That individual was cold in his welcome.

"You've cost the tax-payers a mint of money," he growled. "They've had
ships on the lookout for you for four years. Where's the other young
fellow?"

Carl told the story while the officer slowly tensed. Then he looked
annoyed. "It seems a little extreme for Oberling to have committed
suicide."

"Maybe, sir. Except that one doesn't go around destroying solar systems
without a good reason. If you hadn't shown up when you did--"

"There would have been a good reason?" The officer sat silent. "Yes,
I suppose so. A classical bit of irony, that. Destroying a sun to
attract rescuers--then the rescuers spoil the drama of it by showing up
ahead of time. And the funny part of it is that it would have worked."

He seemed to recollect. He hastily snapped in the teleview, motioned
Carl to come around to his side of the desk.

"Chances are," the officer said, consulting some figures, "We'll see a
merry hell-fire in the next few minutes."

Ten minutes later, the red star exploded.

It cracked into three separate pieces. They held that position, each
section racing from red to violet. That changed blindingly to magnesium
white. The glare smashed at the eyeballs. The three pieces in turn
shattered each other as they puffed up. Then the whole spurted into
a violence that lighted all the black sky with recurring, silently
throbbing sheets of shattering luminescence.

The stars were blotted out in that primeval surf of untamed energy.

The planet Worta was caught, flamed in glory for the small part of a
second.

The big space-ship trembled in every beam and partition as the
wave-front of exploding light reached it.

_Distress signal!_

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DISTRESS SIGNAL ***

***** This file should be named 64175-0.txt or 64175-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    https://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/1/7/64175/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
