ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Princess of Chaos, by Bryce Walton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Princess of Chaos

Author: Bryce Walton

Release Date: January 04, 2021 [eBook #64214]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRINCESS OF CHAOS ***




                           PRINCESS OF CHAOS

                            By BRYCE WALTON

        The howling, slavering mob in the blood-spattered arena
        hated the half-breed Moljar--prayed gibberingly for his
        death. But Moljar looked coldly up at the Princess and
          licked dry lips. He would not die--while she lived!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Moljar planted his columnar legs wide apart beside the dying saurian
and blinked blood and sweat from his eyes. Only slightly strained
after three hours of the Red Moon Games, his seven foot height of
Terran-Martian muscles gleamed damply in the blazing arc lights of the
Colosseum. His lungs sucked hungrily at the dense Venusian air as he
waited for whatever would next be sent against him, the champion of
them all.

Through sweat-blurred vision he watched the climbing tiers of eager
spectators, a high curvature outlined against the crimson mist. Red
Moon Games! Bi-monthly slaughter, ordered by the Princess Alhone when
the unnatural filtering of the reflected sun's rays spread a carmine
glow through the fog.

The grey sands of the arena were daubed with sprawled forms of monsters
and men alike. Out of the shambles, Moljar's black barbarian eyes shone
as they swung up to fix on the Princess Alhone where she sat with a
retinue in her private observation box. Her grey-furred, semi-human
body glimmered softly beneath the blue-glowing effulgence that always
bathed her in its royal cold light.

Her heavily jeweled paw raised, dropped. The signal.

A roar of sadistic anticipation swelled, echoing from the misty range
of hills, beyond Venus Port, out across the Sea of Mort that washed its
marble walls.

Moljar shifted toward the gates. His hands flexed about the alloy bar.
At Princess Alhone's gesture, the gates across the arena lifted. The
monstrous beast, somewhat resembling a Mesozoic saber-tooth tiger of
Terra, charged out straight for Moljar in a blinding burst of speed and
power.

The half-breed swung the pitiful weapon which had jokingly been granted
him, a five-foot length of compressed alloy. It cracked against the
giant cat's skull. Moljar leaped aside as the beast plunked on its
face, rolled in a flurry of sand and blood. Tendrils of gore oozed from
its shattered skull as it lumbered erect and charged again, erratically
now, circling and leaping down toward the arena's far end, blinded and
roaring in pain.

       *       *       *       *       *

A sigh of ecstasy rose up in a long drone from the spectators--a
polyglot of Solarians who had paid eighty credits for this night of
vicarious blood-lust. Wealthy interplanetary aristocrats and cartel
magnates, Mercurian and Martian speculators, Terran monopolists,
adventurers and adventuresses from many worlds, muckers from the
asteroid mines. All imagining themselves to be Moljar tonight. All
hating him because he was a half-breed.

Of the half-thousand prisoners who had been marched into the
amphitheatre--a few Terran mutants, many half-breeds, and space pirates
who couldn't pay enough hush-hush credits--only three remained
standing. The Terran girl mutant, Mahra, who had helped him slay the
saurian and who had rare courage. Himself. And Gasdon, the Martian
pirate, who, barehanded, was still battling the giant squid in the
arena's synthetic quagmire. His yellow body was a panting, straining
bulk beyond the tendrils of sulphur dioxide that bubbled up through the
bog.

Moljar felt the Terran girl's hot breath on his neck as he waited for
the pain-maddened cat to scent him down. His glittering eyes turned and
met hers. Her silver mutant's hair glowed beneath the merciless glare
of the flood lights. Her full, yet agile body wriggled in its brief
trappings in nervous preparation for the cat's rapid return from the
end of the arena. But when she spoke to Moljar her lips curled with
obvious distaste.

"You fight well, for a half-breed," she said.

His teeth shone white in what might have been either a laugh or a
snarl. "Go to your Martian outlaw. Gasdon's pure of blood. If he'll
have you--mutant!"

She laughed sharply like shimmering glass. "I'm Mahra. I stand alone."

"You'll die alone," said Moljar, "if you stand by me."

She tossed her head. The cat was bearing down, shrieking in blind hate.
"You think you've won, barbarian. Wait 'til the _kristons_ are turned
loose on us."

"I wait," said Moljar simply. "I've waited a long time, and I can wait
forever. And someday I'll kill her. Alhone's pelt I'll have and give to
my people to whom I pledged it."

His blood-spattered arm swept aside as the giant cat ploughed past in
its sightless, pounding charge. He swung his bar again. It crunched
through tissue and bone and brain, and the cat dropped suddenly like a
stone. Its sleek gold and black body shivered and twitched as it died.

He planted a sandaled foot on the carcass and raised his face toward
the Princess Alhone's royal booth. Reluctantly, a smattering of
applause rose. Princess Alhone's silkily furred body was standing now.
Motionless.

Moljar's voice rang out clear through the mist. "Moljar waits for
worthy opposition. He is bored."

"Dirty half-breed dog!" howled a voice. Thousands joined in a thunder
of obscene and filthy epithets.

Moljar laughed loudly. He saw Alhone's slim alien form tense as the
saber tooth's had before a charge. And he began walking toward her
across the blood-stained sands.

He paused as she raised a jeweled paw again. Moljar's eyes narrowed
as the almost invisible vibrational force-wall rose up before the
spectators and the rim of the vast arena.

"_Kristons!_" screamed Mahra behind him. "The wall protects the
audience."

He heard the high whirring whine of the huge tri-winged, armor-plated
insects as they were released into the arena. They dove and circled,
maddened by the miasmic death vapor overhanging the stadium.

Like a trapped beast, the half-breed turned this way and that. Beads of
sweat stood out on his heaving chest. He wiped his sweat-slippery hands
on his leather tunic, then dried them in the sand, before he gripped
his alloy bludgeon again. Then with the long eerie cry of the wild
desert tribes he sprang into the air to meet the hurtling drive of the
_kriston_ that had singled him out.

The blinding speed of its wings distorted his perspective. The alloy
bar, caught in their blurring motion, spun from his stunned hands. He
cursed as he fell beneath its flight.

Dimly, he heard the joyous roaring of the throngs who watched him
fall. As he rolled aside he heard Mahra's frightened scream. He felt
the spearing slash of the _kriston's_ poisonous barbed fang. His arms
whipped out, hands closed on the horned tip. He was on his feet heaving
outward. He felt tendons rip and a sudden freedom as the tongue tore
from the _kriston's_ throat. Its death cry sounded like escaping steam.

He was running toward the outcast Terran girl who was dodging the
worrying darting movements of another _kriston_. He swung the grotesque
whip-like tongue of the one he had slain as he ran.

He stopped. The creature attacking Mahra suddenly became a lifeless
charred hulk. The other _kristons_ were plunging into the sand,
smoking, burning. His eyes swung up. The force-wall was gone. The
heat ray on the roof landing above the catacombs had destroyed the
_kristons_ before their work was done. The heat ray was only used for
emergencies. What had moved the Anghorians to save them?

Miraculously, the three still lived. Moljar, Mahra, and the Martian
outlaw Gasdon who had blinded the squid by punching out its eyes.
Having no scent faculties it was flapping tentacles helplessly in its
phosphorescent bog.

       *       *       *       *       *

An aimless hum of fear and hysteria exploded outward from the throng.
They were fleeing from the stands, trampling, yelling frantically, some
burning their way through the choked exits of the Colosseum. They were
jammed in its elevators, blocking its corridors and archways.

Gasdon came running toward Moljar and the girl. His towering body,
dripping mucous from the squid battle, was as large as Moljar's, but
lacked its agility and integration of movement. His ugly face was
twisted in fanatical purpose.

"Now we fight!" he shouted, "for her! I've wanted to meet Moljar, the
half-breed freak, before witnesses who will testify to your defeat."

Mahra laughed. "Morons. I'll choose my own lover. And I certainly can't
imagine him being either of you!"

"What witnesses will see you, Gasdon?" asked Moljar. "They run for
their lives. Their pure hearts pump thin water."

A loud speaker blared:

THE MISTMEN! VENUS PORT IS UNDER ATTACK. TAKE TO THE JUNGLES. MISTMEN
HAVE DESTROYED VENUS PORT COMMUNICATIONS. THEY ARE SACKING, PLUNDERING,
KILLING. FLEE FOR YOUR LIVES! THE MISTMEN! VENUS PORT HAS BEEN ATTACKED
AND....

Mahra trembled with uncontrollable fears. Her mutant's mind clouded
over with the significance of the descending terror. Gasdon, his
egomaniacal feud with Moljar forgotten for the moment, shivered, and
his green eyes probed the thick cloud blanket.

Moljar's intuitive senses stirred darkly. Mistmen. Scourge of Venus,
super-scientific pirates, they appeared mysteriously out of the fogs to
loot and kill. Protected by force shields of thick grey, impenetrable
mists, they appeared in sudden ruthless violence, sacked, slew, and
vanished into the unknown land that spawned them.

Now, they were actually attacking Venus Port!

The stands were empty, except for the dead and dying who had been
trampled or burned by the stampeding crowds. They and the Princess
Alhone, amid her personal bodyguard. She was standing now, her slender,
evil grace swaying in the ever-present blue glow.

She motioned to Moljar. He trembled. "This is the time," he said very
low in his throat like a growling dog. "I have waited long."

He strode across the reddened sands towards her. Her yellow cat-eyes
veiled her study of his approach. Her feral body leaned tautly as it
waited. The half-breed looked up. She was only fifteen feet above him;
he could leap the distance.

Her high mewing voice said, "They have dared attack Venus Port! If they
continue, they will soon be undisputed rulers of my planet. Soon, with
such boldness, the Mistmen might even rule the System. Moljar, would
you like freedom?"

He shrugged. "Can a half-breed ever be free?"

"On Venus, I have but to speak to make any being free."

"Try telling the Mistmen that," said Moljar boldly. "They'll soon be
here."

"I've never, in all the places I have been, seen quite such a
magnificent fool as you, Moljar. Anyway, our communications are cut
off. If a man could get through to Anghore, bring back a force ...
my scientists in Anghore have been perfecting a new vibro-generator
as a weapon. Perhaps it is completed now. The Mistmen have never
been attacked. They surprise, throw up detectors and shut off
communications, and disappear before any reinforcements can arrive."

Moljar's fingers quivered for her slim throat. But his voice seemed
calm. "Could one get through their detectors to Anghore?"

"You perhaps could. If you can, Moljar, I'll make you a Guard of
Anghore."

Stolid as was the half-breed's neural circuit, the sudden statement
momentarily shocked him. It was rumored that Alhone chose certain
fighters to go to Anghore. But that he, a contemptible half-breed
should be promised a position as Alhone's personal guard....

"Why me?" he was saying.

"In these games I have seen the best fighters of three worlds. But I
have never seen anyone fight as you fought tonight."

A series of thunderous explosions rocked the stadium. A brilliant
pyrotechnic display glittered fantastically through the thick cloud
layers above Venus Port. The Mistmen were storming the city with
customary thorough and savage efficiency. The crying of a helpless city
in pain rose and fell in an aimless pattern of terror.

       *       *       *       *       *

Moljar noted the energy guns held in the hands of the Anghorians
surrounding their Princess. This was not the time. One aggressive move
from him, and he would be annihilated on the spot. If he accepted her
proposition, got through to Anghore and was rewarded as she promised,
then he would surely eventually be placed in a fool-proof position to
kill her. Time meant nothing. He had worked and waited many years. Many
more would not matter--if they led to the fulfilment of his pledge.
Only her death mattered. Revenge. Her pelt, well cured and soft,
presented to his tribesmen.

The Mistmen were sweeping toward the Colosseum. The roar of their
advance increased rapidly. He must decide.

Anghore. Over this outlaw world of blood-lust and savagery, ruled
Alhone. Thousands of his kind who had migrated here had been slain
under her sanction. But who, or what, was Alhone? What and where was
Anghore? Out of the numerous strange and unexplored lands of Venus she
might have come. No one knew. There was only a name. Anghore. Anghore
that lay somewhere across the Sea of Mort.

A few claimed to have seen Anghore--from a distance. A jumble of towers
spearing into the mist higher than the mountain peaks. Only Princess
Alhone and her ferocious minions knew of it. And no one talked with
them.

Alhone ruled slave followers with weapons of basic energies as strange
in origin as Alhone herself. Followers who, in return for their
unquestioning, dogged devotion, held positions of great personal power.
In their rich trappings, they ruled over private little spheres of
influence, answering only to Alhone.

Who was Alhone?--Where was Anghore?--What would he become should he
accept this offer? None of these things mattered. Sometime, somewhere,
he would have the opportunity to strip that soft furred hide from her
quivering body--and no personal price he might pay would be too dear.

"Well, Moljar," she was saying. "Doesn't my offer interest you?"

He controlled himself well as he nodded. "I'll go to Anghore, wherever
it is."

Her round pink face crinkled. "You are so certain, barbarian. Few have
crossed the Sea of Mort. It is well-named."

"I will go to Anghore," he repeated.

"Then you should hurry. The Mistmen are outside the stadium now, and
I'm sure they would like to find us here. At the other end of the
stadium, above the catacombs, is the gyro-scout. For emergencies in the
games," she laughed. "It has seldom been used. Take it. Its directional
beam is already set for Anghore. It will take you directly there. If
you have the key."

Moljar flexed his shoulders. His eyes were narrow, suspicious. No one
ordinarily could break through the Mistmen's detector bands. Then how
could _he_? He shrugged. At least he would be free for a while.

Alhone removed the gleaming yellow stone from one of her semi-webbed
fingers. She dropped it to him. "This will open the gyro to you. It
will function only under this stone's influence. It will also, if you
reach my castle, open the gates into Anghore. You shall be rewarded,
Moljar--bountifully."

His eyes fastened on her throat. "Yes," he said. "I depend on it." He
slipped the vibrant, throbbing yellow stone on his smallest finger. He
stepped back and then a tremendous blast of energy surged against him.
The blue field which enveloped the Anghorians was beginning to fade. A
stabbing pain lanced up his spine, up into his brain, to explode there
in a flash of wrenching agony. He stumbled, went down.

The blue field blurred, swirled, deepened in color. It became a vortex
of violently churning silver shot with fire. A nauseous weakness spread
through him. The Anghorians, the stadium, the whirling blue fires, all
faded.

       *       *       *       *       *

He opened his eyes slowly. It was raining. A few fat warm drops were
spattering down, then a curtain of water spilled from the stadium wall.
Shamefully he climbed to his feet, shook his head, looked about warily
for Mistmen.

If he had blanked out it had only been for a few seconds. The blue
field was gone. And with it, Alhone and her sycophants. Instinctively,
he jerked his hand up. The yellow ring-key was gone. He bellowed
bitterly. And a laugh answered. Gasdon!

He turned. The Martian outlaw had one arm around the struggling Terran
girl. She was biting and striking and cursing, but with no effect.
She writhed helplessly under his arm. There was a yellow flash on the
outlaw's other hand as it raised, clutching an alloy bar. Gasdon had
taken the key!

The half-breed swept a defense bar from a gladiator's stiff dead
hand. Gasdon laughed fearless scorn, threw the girl from him, and met
Moljar's rush with his own bar upraised. They crashed together with
a dull clang, parted, struck again. They circled warily, feinting,
parrying, thrusting....

Mahra's scream rang out. "The Mistmen! Coming into the arena!"

Moljar's eyes darted toward her. Beyond, far across the sands, were
a number of grey vaporous spheres. Within their depths, dim shapes,
indistinct, blurred, moved in a steady ferocious intent toward the
three.

"Fight!" yelled Gasdon. He charged toward Moljar again. His face was
twisted insanely. "We're doomed anyway. Defend yourself!" His broad
yellow face glowed with obsession as he sprang. His alloy bar whirled
in a singing arc, which was unwise. Moljar dropped beneath the level
of the bar, punched savagely with the end of his own. Gasdon screamed
hoarsely as the blunt end sank into his solar plexus. He staggered
back, trying to lift the bar. Moljar swung downward, sank his bar
halfway through the Martian outlaw's heavy skull.

Quickly Moljar retracted the yellow ring. He yelled at the girl. Then
they were running together across the death-littered amphitheatre. Rays
of force might have burned them down easily, but for some reason not
then known to Moljar, the Mistmen did not fire.

They darted through an unguarded archway, up through level after level.
They were still running easily when they reached the roof landing above
the catacombs where the monsters of the games were kept. The long low
hangar's panel slid open when the ring was applied to its invisible
photo-electronic reaction mechanism. The gyro-scout's panel and
instruments also were activated by the ring of Alhone.

Moljar hesitated, grinned at the girl. Her silver hair shone like dewed
metal. "You are following me? A half-breed? A slave?"

"I'm not following anyone, not in the sense you mean. I'm with you,
that's all. I'd have to fight alone, otherwise. That would hardly be
intelligent of me, would it?"

"Hardly," he said. "Come on." The gyro-scout lifted automatically,
straight up through increasingly thick cloud-layers, until it shot
suddenly forward, straight like a bullet across Venus Port and above
the Sea of Mort.

A radabeam and an automatic pilot was in complete control. Moljar
turned to the Terran mutant. Her taut face was trying to pierce the
dense sheath of cloud.

"This is a strange dream, Mahra."

"Dream?" She turned her weird eyes on him briefly.

"What else? A half-breed, child of a Terran woman and a Martian outlaw,
travels across the Sea of Death with an outcast mutant." He shook his
head. "And for Alhone we fly. For Alhone, the she-monster whom no one
knows, to Anghore where no one has ever been and returned."

"Is it far across this death trap?"

"I've heard that in miles it is only perhaps a hundred. But in perils--"

The girl said abruptly, angrily, "For Alhone! You're crazy! If we can
take control from the automatic pilot, we could--"

"We can not do that," said Moljar. "We would only crash down there.
It's bad ... down there."

She fell silent. The atomic motor whirred almost silently, driving them
toward Anghore.

"There is great mystery here," said Moljar. "We seem guided by forces
beyond our control. Some powerful, invisible wind."

       *       *       *       *       *

Curious, nervous, Mahra's rummaging uncovered weapons beneath the
gyro's seats. Two electro-blasters and a duelling dagger. They each
took a pistol, and she gave the half-breed the long slim knife. Then,
when she sat down, her bare shoulder rubbed slightly against him. And
remained there.

His flesh tingled. His hand gripped the electro-gun tighter in his
hand. "Why do the Terrans hate you mutants so much?" he asked. "Are the
rumors about you mutant's deadly powers true?"

She sighed. "Perhaps some of them are true. Anyway the Normals are very
scared of us. That's why they isolate and scourge us. We can rule them
when we decide we want to."

"Will you want to?"

"Perhaps, someday. When the time is right."

"I am neither ruled, nor do I wish to rule," said Moljar.

"You half-breeds are a strange tribe. Too bad you must all be such
barbarians, such savages."

He smiled grimly. "We are what we were made. Somehow, the offspring
of a Martian-Terran union results in much larger, much longer-living
stock. We were envied. Much as you mutants are on Terra, blessed with
double-life compared to Normals. We were driven into the deserts,
reviled, imprisoned, beaten. There aren't many of us left. Of those
thousands who sought to migrate here and find freedom, Alhone's games
wiped out all but a few hundred."

Her voice sharpened. "You found her attractive! You know you did! You
swore to avenge your people and bring her pelt back to Mars. Instead,
you run errands for her!"

His shaggy black head turned. His eyes blazed with hate into hers.
"That alien slut! It was a way out of Venus Port. It will lead me to
her again. I could do nothing there."

She sulked. He sensed the slight trembling of her arm against his, and
smiled. "My vows cannot change. Someday her pelt will hang in Ankhar's
trophy cave."

She screamed. Her lips quivered as she raised a hand over her face.
"Will you?" Her voice shrilled. "A _gruoon_!"

Moljar's stomach knotted. He had not even time to fire. The giant
flying croc was plunging straight into them. There was a tearing
impact. The gyro wobbled. Then the controls went dead. The little ship
buckled, vibrated as though the winged crocodile was trying to devour
it, rend it with its claws. Then the crushed blades released their
hold, and the gyro spun down in a fluttering spiral.

Moljar had time to jam his electro-gun and a small magnetic compass
into a bag of water-proof plastic and belt it to his waist before they
crashed violently into the Sea of Death.


                                  II

The tribes from which Moljar came were fatalists. Moljar accepted the
fact that he was face to face with imminent death. Very well. If there
was a way out, he would find it. If not, he would go on to Khles,
where dead warriors go. And from Khles he would fight his way into the
eternal paradise of Perlarh.

He had expected the gyro to float at least a few minutes. But it
sank almost immediately. The shock of the crash had knocked Mahra
unconscious; pulling her against the suction as the gyro went under was
a herculean task. The crumbled wreckage went down. It left only a tiny
whirlpool in its wake.

Mahra's consciousness returned quickly after a few dunkings in the
tepid water. She was in his arms, her silver hair floating out over the
dull glassy sheen of the water. He treaded easily, looking about. They
could see a few hundred metres but beyond that narrow radius, the cloud
blankets became an impenetrable fog. Patches of seaweed, lichen and
rotting debris floated silently by on the torpid water, giving off a
phosphorescent glow that reflected weirdly against the backdrop of mist.

Nature seemed to have stopped breathing. The air was heavy, oppressive.
And the high humidity and heat, unrelieved by any wind, was weighty and
pressed on them.

"Can you swim?" he asked.

"Quite well." Her hands were on his shoulders. They clung a moment,
then shoved away.

Treading water now as easily as he, she asked, "How long do you give us
to live? Not that it matters."

"The future is a mystery to me," he said. "Maybe a second. Maybe a
hundred years."

"But you'll admit we've no chance now! Soon hordes of sea monsters will
scent us out. Surely you'll not deny that this time you will go to meet
your barbaric gods!"

"Who knows?"

She cursed him thoroughly. "You're mad!"

"I am Moljar."

She sighed resignedly. "You say that like omnipotence would say, 'I'm
God'."

"It is enough for me. Who can say they know of more than themselves? I
simply know I am Moljar. I live. I have purpose. The pelt of Alhone. A
pledge I must keep. Beyond that--nothing."

She tossed wet hair from her eyes. "Maybe your barbaric code is best
after all. The System's returned to barbarism. Decay, ruin. Why not
a philosophy to fit it? I rather like you. If you only weren't a
half-breed."

He grinned. "If you only were not a mutant." His eyes caught a dark,
flat floating object some distance away. A blurred, indistinct outline.
He pointed.

"Looks like something large enough to float us," she said. Then she
cried out suddenly and pointed over his shoulder.

His knife was in his hands as his legs churned him around in the
brackish water. The sea-serpent's flat head arched high above them,
dripping an avalanche of weed and water upon their upturned faces. Its
sleek, sinuous body shot upward, a monster with fanged jaws and darting
forked tongue, with bulging eyes, and bony head and snout.

"Keep diving," yelled Moljar. "It won't open its mouth under water." He
watched her surface dive like a fish, then followed himself just as the
bullet-like head of the hissing hydrophidian slashed down.

Its massive length coiled and uncoiled savagely about them. The water
was a churning white foam. Moljar tried repeatedly to sink his knife
into the under-belly of the serpent. But it was like soft but tough
plastic, only slightly resilient.

[Illustration: _Its massive length coiled and uncoiled savagely about
them._]

He broke surface, gasped great gulps of the dense air. He saw Mahra
and pointed to the right toward the flat raft object they had seen
floating there. He yelled. "Keep diving and swimming toward that." Then
he went under again as the serpent's head slapped into the water where
his own head had been.

It was a world of phosphorescent glimmerings like monstrous fireflies,
bubbling and coruscating about his staring eyes as he battled the
boiling currents stirred by the serpent. He swam until his lungs were
shrieking with agony, then came up again for air. He was only a few
feet this time from the floating area. It looked like a collected mass
of debris now.

He swam frantically toward it. If he could get up out of the water, he
could break out his electro-gun. He looked around for the girl. Her
head bobbed up. But still some distance from him. The hydrophidian
hissed angrily and struck again. Her silver hair disappeared beneath
the serpent's mouth.

He drew himself up onto the raft. He had a quick second of appraisal as
he tore the gun from its plastic wrappings. The raft was solid, very
buoyant, and membranaceous. Its surface was glossy and veined like the
broad leaves of the swamp lilies.

How thick this raft was, how it was made, or how much more of it there
was Moljar had no time to think about. But he did know it was alive!

The girl came up a few metres from him this time. Her arms moved
weakly. Her face was deathly pale and her eyes pleaded silently beneath
the bizarre strands of her silver hair. She again started to sink
wearily down as the serpent hissed hungrily and struck.

This time it would have feasted. However Moljar's electro-gun crackled,
and its lethal charges burned the monster's glistening length into
pieces. They fell writhing in separate anguish all around the girl,
crimsoning the water to a thick red.

He lifted her easily up onto the raft-creature. She sank down in a
dripping and exhausted heap.

"For a half-breed," she whispered between gasps, "you have courage."
Then she closed her eyes. The raft rippled and bucked slightly as
something huge stirred against its bottom.

       *       *       *       *       *

The night hours before morning were illuminated, a strange twilight of
phosphorescence. They sat in the middle of the organic raft and waited
tensely. The stirring beneath it had grown more violent.

"Man isn't the only highly adaptable animal--not even the most
ingenious." The girl's tone was pedantic, amazingly learned. Moljar
nodded surlily, not so interested, apparently, in lectures. He edged
toward the girl until their shoulders touched. She paused. Continued.

"The animal that build this raft for itself is hiding beneath it now.
The serpent frightened it. Soon it will have to come up for air."

"How do you know so much," he growled.

"Earth University of Interplanetary Fauna," she said.

He sneered. "A mutant!"

"My parents dyed my hair, and with another name I got by for a while. I
was going to be a field worker, but they caught up with me. They always
do. Anyway, as I was saying, this creature is much like an ianthina, or
snail, of earth. It breathes through a siphon, or tubular proboscis. It
uses this siphon to suck in air with which it builds these rafts for
itself, to keep its heavy body and shell afloat. It's an adventurer
like you, Moljar. It spends its life floating or sailing about like a
ship."

Moljar grunted. He moved one corded arm behind her. She shifted a
little.

"Very interesting thing," she said. "Biology. When this ianthina
decides to build its raft, it exudes a sticky mucous over the surface
of the sea, layer after layer of it. Then it draws air into its siphon
and permits the bubbles to escape beneath the mucous to which they
cling. These air sacks imprison the air as the mucous hardens. And
we have this very strong raft, a life boat with air tanks. Aren't we
lucky?"

The raft jolted violently. "Are we?" said Moljar. "Maybe it does not
want to share its raft."

A number of tentacles slithered up and over the edge of the raft. Two
antenna with slimy knobs stood up and quivered at Moljar.

The girl tried to ignore the sight. "But this raft is better than any
man has ever been able to build." Her voice tightened as more of the
ianthina surged into view. "This snail can make more bubbles at will,
and it can enlarge its raft whenever it wants to."

There was a sudden upsurging height of gigantic pink-fleshed bulk. It
rose up until it towered over its raft. A little above the level of
the water they could see its brilliantly colored spiral shell-house
gleaming olive-green with streaks and spots of purple, violet and black.

The body of the ianthina continued to exude outward from its shell.
From it a thick tendon of flesh spread out to either side to form the
frame work of its raft, an integral part of its giant body.

"We've got to get this craft moving someway toward Anghore," said
Moljar.

She stared at him, open mouthed, and then said, "Is that all? How will
you summon your genii, or is that you?"

He shrugged. "It must be done. We are wasting time. First we must burn
this shell away from the raft. It encumbers us."

She was shaking her head as he crouched on his knees, leveling the gun
at a point beneath the ianthina's waving antenna. He was about to press
the stud, then cursed and fell sidewise beneath the long descending
squeal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Attracted by the glow of the ianthina, a monstrous bat had dived
suddenly toward them from somewhere up in that dense grey curtain.
Neither of them saw its giant webbed wings until it fanned them like an
abrupt deadly wind.

"Burn it!" scream Mahra, as the bat's hideous evilly grinning mouth
opened to reveal rows of yellowed teeth, and its gleaming red eyes
bored toward them through the mist. "I lost my electro in the water."

Moljar was shaking his head. He tossed her the blaster. "You. Burn
the ianthina free from the raft." The bat had sped by, circled, was
returning. "This bat can do us some good!"

Moljar stood up and met the sweep of the bat's flexing claws. Just in
time he leaped upward between them, and clutched the bat's thick furred
belly. He felt the ratty teeth clack shut behind him as he was raised
upward into the swirling vapor.

His nose curled, and he choked with the stench of the beast's
vermin-infested fur. Then, still gripping the coarse hair with one
hand, he raised his knife with the other. A quick long slash brought a
fearsome scream hissing in his face. He slashed again and again until
the probing blade found the beast's heart.

Gore spilled over him as he clung to the now wet hair. It got too
slippery to hold. He grabbed the flailing claws as the gasping,
thrashing creature plummeted seaward. The bat's body flopped into the
water not far from the raft. It beat futilely with one foot, spinning
in weakening frothing circles. Suddenly it was dead.

Moljar worked frantically against time. The blood would attract every
kind and condition of sea monster. He hacked and strained at the joint
where the huge wing joined the body. The stench almost overpowered him
as he floundered about. But finally the great ribbed wing came free.
Moljar's breath was coming in deep gusts as he dragged himself up onto
the raft and pulled part of the wing up after him. He sat on it to
anchor it while he rested.

He looked at the girl. She nodded. "You're pretty brave, for a
half-breed."

He grunted breathlessly.

She came closer and handed him his blaster. "I burned it away. I burned
its ganglia first, which it used for a brain. Then I severed the
tendons which fastened it to its float. Anything else?"

Moljar was up again now, hacking at the thick tough surface of one end
of the raft. "Yes. Watch that bat wing. Don't let it slide away. It is
what we must have to reach Anghore."

"What are you doing now? And what's the wing for?"

He answered carelessly, "I'm going to make us a sail from the wing.
It is almost a perfect sail of its kind. I figure the gyro brought us
halfway across the sea. Maybe we have a third of the way to go. I have
a compass and I saw what direction we were following before we crashed.
With a fair wind, and luck, we should reach shore within a day."

She stared with no attempt, now, to conceal her admiration for the
barbarian. "For a half-breed," she said, "you've got a brain."

Moljar said nothing. He had finished digging the hole in the surface
of the raft. He next cut long strips of leather from his tunic for
rigging. The twenty-foot-high leading edge of the bat's wing, a high
curving spar, he stepped deeply in the hole, like a mast. Soon they
were moving through the fantastic sea before a slight, lethargic breeze.

Their blaster protected them many times from the countless varieties of
sea and air creatures that constantly attacked them. Moljar devised a
sea-anchor by cutting off one of the air sacks from beneath the raft,
and tying it to one end of a long leather rope. When the wind blew in
the wrong direction, he threw out the sea-anchor.

There was little difference between night and day, except that the
phosphorescence dimmed and was replaced by a grayer, more sickly light.
And the high, gracefully-curved membrane of the bat's ribbed wing
arched above them like the bizarre rigging of the junks that ply the
Martian canals between the ruins of Phreer and Sumph-Logan. Black, with
veins of dried blood, it caught the wind and tautened like the black
sails of ancient pirate craft.

But though they could fight the monsters that flew and swam about them
they could not fight the sea itself. The sea is cunning. It can bide
its time, and spring with more violence than the greatest beast. The
wind was its ally.

It was late the following afternoon that Mahra's hypersensitive nerves
detected the distant pounding of the surf against high crags. They both
visualized the dark mountains of Maghrone where the dull spires and
minarets of Anghore towered up from its granite sea wall thousands of
feet into the mist.

The thunderous surf grew in volume to a steady roaring as their
makeshift craft bore them shoreward.

Then, abruptly, Moljar's nostrils quivered. He leaped to his feet and
his black mane matted and curled as his eyes strained upward. "The
cloud layers," he said. "Look!"

Each cloud layer was moving rapidly in different directions. "A storm!"
cursed Moljar. "The wind and sea will pulp us on the rocks!"

Mahra cowered down, clutching at the floor of the raft. One hand
gripped the bone mast of the bat's wing. She reached up the other, and
Moljar's broad yellow hand closed over it, and held it in a silent bond.

The sound of the descending storm came from afar. It rose higher and
higher, reaching the pitch of a thousand shrieking giants. A colossal
comber bore toward them, lifting up, and up. Their eyes followed its
curling summit, helpless, bold pygmies. A wall of blue, foaming with
white like a mad beast, translucent as they saw it towering up through
the swirling vapor. Then it collapsed over them.

Moljar's hand gripped hers. A vise that all the frenzied pounding of
the ocean could not break. As the tons of water crushed them down,
shattered the raft, hurled it away like chaff, their hands were locked.
Their ears rang. Their minds cried out and were smothered. Coughing,
blinded, they were absorbed by the sea.


                                  III

The desert tribes of Mars cling to ancient superstitions. When a
warrior dies, his body can only go on to Khles. A grotesque land of
trial by brute strength by which the victorious can move upward through
succeeding plains, and finally into the fairer lands of Perlarh.

So when Moljar's battered consciousness returned somewhat, his cracked
lips whispered it gently, with awe. "Khles ... Khles ... Khles...."
Then he snapped open his burning eyes.

He was on his side on harsh gravel and grey sand. The sea, calm and
glassy again, washed gently at his sandaled feet. He stiffened his
aching legs, and a lassitude went through him, like one might imagine
upon awakening from death. He raised his right hand and the brilliant,
sentient aliveness of the yellow stone caught the filtered Venusian
morning, and momentarily blinded him. He shifted his eyes and saw that
he still gripped Mahra's hand.

Her long smooth body, bruised and lacerated and encrusted with salt,
breathed with a slow, erratic rhythm. Her other arm lay across her high
firm breasts and her slim fingers rested on his forearm.

He turned his head up the beach. It might well have been the
hell-lands of Khles that towered there. The smooth sloping expanse of
gray sand ended sharply in a wall of granite, cracked and hoary with
age. It went straight upward, higher than Moljar could see.

The girl groaned, raised on an elbow. He turned. They looked silently
at each other a moment, before turning their eyes back to the colossal
sea wall. Simultaneously their eyes caught the broad towering gate of
dull black metal.

"Anghore," she whispered.

His hand dug into the sand. His lips were thin lines of dark wire. "It
is magic," he said. "Even the gods are prejudiced against half-breeds,
or I'd say they lent their strength to ours."

"Only evil gods would guide us to this place," she said.

"We have our gods who are not known exactly for benevolence. Lumphoor.
Ghyx."

Moljar climbed stiffly to his feet and lifted Mahra. They stretched
sore, wrenched muscles. They ate the ample meat from the many types of
shells strewing the beach, and all the time they had been eyeing the
giant, formidable barrier. Then, with silent accord, they walked up to
it and stood dwarfed before it.

"You can leave me here," said Moljar. "I have pledged. I must return to
kill Alhone. But you are free."

"In this jungle? Free for death! I'll stick a while longer, half-breed."

Her hand crept into his as he raised the yellow ring-key. A faint
humming, a hollow metallic clang, and the gates slid to either side
into their granite walls.

They stepped through into a massive cavern. A cold maw of twilight,
green haze and smooth arching walls veined with ruby red and gold.
Mahra cried out softly, and Moljar cursed as the two giant furred male
Anghorians ran toward them.

Each wore a long straight sword and a slender dagger at his side. Their
pink cat-faces masked cold, sadistic evil. Alien. One reached out a
paw-like hand at Mahra. His almost lipless mouth slid open, and the
incongruous whining speech mewed its travesty of human tones.

"This woman has not been called. She does not belong here." He turned
to his fellow. "Take her to the Matrix. Ghils is experimenting with
the seventh plain. She will be useful there."

"You are to come with me," he said, turning to Moljar.

The half-breed's hand rested on his dagger. He had fallen instinctively
into a half-crouch. "How did you know I was coming here?"

"You will learn many things about Anghore. You have much to learn."

"I'm stubborn about my subjects, and my instructors," growled Moljar.
And, as the other Anghorian stepped toward Mahra, Moljar leaped at his
throat.

As his left hand clutched the corded body, his right hand whipped the
cat man's dagger free. It rested harshly now against the furred man's
broad silken chest.

"Do not touch the girl," he warned in the small pointed ear.

The other catman said evenly, "A dangerous act. But excusable. You have
not yet learned the formalities of Anghore." He moved in a blinding
blur of speed. Mahra gasped, as his body streaked across her vision
like a flash of light.

       *       *       *       *       *

Moljar went back. The catman thudded against him. His head cracked
against the stone wall, and the red tint of the glowing stones deepened
to a more personal crimson. He cursed harshly. These catmen could move!
Shaking the dimness from his head, he tried to grip the Anghorian's
writhing body. His dagger raised and fell, but only found hard stone.
He blinked, trying to clear his eyes of fog, and his own blood.

He heard Mahra's savage, despairing yells, and caught a glance of her
struggling in the other catman's corded arms. He heaved upward. The
catman flew off him like a filthy conscience. Moljar flattened against
the wall, his dagger crossed before him.

And when the catman leaped again, the half-breed was prepared. His
clearing vision focused this time on its feral darting movements, and
he met that pink snarling face with a long right slash. The pink face
crunched, smeared. The big body sheared around, buckled, plunged down.
It twitched, and its paws swept about searching for Moljar. Moljar
kicked the face until the body stopped moving.

The other Anghorian released the girl. He drew his sword and eased
toward Moljar.

       *       *       *       *       *

A voice said with cruel, morbid interest, "Bring the half-breed to me
alive, Akare. Or you will accompany the girl to the seventh plain."

Involuntarily, Moljar yelled, "Princess Alhone!"

Whining, squealing laughter echoed through the vaulted cavern. Baffled,
the barbarian whirled around searching for the voice. It seemed without
source.

"Alhone," he said again desperately. "You here! How?"

The gloating laughter again. "I have never left Anghore, mighty Moljar,
since it was built for me. You and all the other fools outside Anghore
have seen only my projections. You are foolish to fight now. Allow
Akare to bring you to me. Leave the freak girl. I wait."

"Wait," said Moljar. "The girl stays with me."

There was a long painful pause before the Princess Alhone spoke again.
"You have passed the many tests that only a few survive."

"Tests?" said Moljar.

"The Red Moon Games are but testing grounds. The survivors become my
warriors here. You are welcome, Moljar. You will be the greatest among
them. But this--this girl has signed herself away to the seventh plain
by entering here. You had better accept this compromise, Moljar. You
have much to gain. Otherwise, both of you will go to the seventh plain
together. I would hate to lose you, Moljar. I would make you a Jehlak
of my Guards. Forget the girl. Accept. You will be far greater than
those who have scorned you. They will be your slaves."

He hesitated, then said, "I am Moljar. I only compromise when it
pleases me. The girl stays with me. I care nothing for your plains,
whatever they are. Send us to the seventh, the thousandth. It means
nothing to Moljar."

The voice mewed merciless laughter. "Your rugged independence has
ended, half-breed. You can be overpowered instantly by any one of many
of our energy weapons. There is much duelling here, so, by decree, only
swords are worn. Otherwise my warriors would soon decimate themselves.
But for stubborn aliens we have other methods."

"Is talk and crazy laughter one of them?" said Moljar. "I am not
impressed."

He turned. His eyes sought Mahra's. She stood proud and tall, her
breasts moving with controlled breathing. Only her eyes held deep,
crawling fear. Here was dirty mystery. Alhone and her minions who had
watched the Red Moon slaughters--a three-dim projection from her eyrie
here at Anghore. He remembered again that all her public appearances
had been surrounded by the blue glow. His brains spun. He shook his
blood-encrusted hair.

His decision was a natural projection of his own character. He could
not have acted otherwise. He moved in a sudden leap sidewise. One
arm encircled the startled catman's neck. The Anghorian could have
eluded him, and offered battle. But he had not. Apparently he awaited
direction from Alhone. He held his dagger to the quivering side. The
fur was silky, soft beneath his fingers, inviting violence.

He raised his head and shouted, "Moljar waits. Does the girl stay with
me? We will die before we part."

The voice was a petulant whine now. "Fool. You will not die. You are
here to serve me. I am not served by corpses."

Akare made a quick, lightning-like jerk from Moljar's grasp. The
half-breed sank his dagger in to the hilt, ripped sidewise. Then he
leaped away, covering the girl against the wall. A stream of bright
thin blood spurted from Akare's pulsing side as he crawled toward the
far side of the cavern, mewing with pain.

Mahra's hands clutched Moljar's shoulders as they crouched against the
coruscating colors of the veined granite. Her breath came in short,
jerking gusts. "For a half-breed," she breathed, "you have honor."

Her hands stiffened, dug into his skin. Moljar's hair bristled on his
neck. Intuitively, he raised his dagger, though it was a useless, silly
gesture now.

From the far side of the cavern, moving ghost-like from a massive
opening, a dense vaporous sphere floated toward him. It eddied and
pulsed, and in its center was the dim outline of a human shape encased
in plastic, its head helmeted by a faint glowing light.

"A Mistman!" Mahra gasped. "Moljar...."

The half-breed had no time to think. Capture or death would find him
moving, though there seemed no hope in it.

A yellow beam of light slashed outward from the man in the sphere.
Moljar dropped beneath it. But it caught the girl full. His eyes saw
her stiffen into a hard stone mannikin and tumble forward. From his
hands and knees he sprang upward like a maddened beast, straight toward
the pulsing heart of the Mistman's vaporous shell.

There was one rending burst of pain. Then an explosion that seemed
to shatter his brain. Its million floating fragments drifted through
blackness.


                                  IV

He was aware of low chanting rhythms, the blood heating throb of
unknown instruments. He stirred and found himself wallowing in a bed of
incredible depth and softness. Heady scents that twisted his soul with
sweet pain floated across his face, and his wild barbarian heart was
instinctively repelled by the suggestion of sensual, soft decadence.

When he opened his eyes, oscillating lights bathed him in
sense-drunkening sweetness that sickened even as it lured. He turned
his head. A boudoir out of the abyss of a drug dream. Black drapes
littered with flashing jewels. A black floor that seemed to undulate
with sentient life, mosaicked in red veins. Weirdly-plumaged birds with
serpent's heads hissed in a golden cage.

And Alhone stood by his couch and sang to him.

When she spoke, her voice had been unpleasantly whiny and shrill. But
now, singing the dissonant cries of some alien song, it was high and
piercingly sweet like a violin's cry. Small furred breasts rose and
fell gently as she sang. Lithe hips swayed. Her cat's eyes searched his
with a cruel dreaminess, and, for him, there was no malice there.

Small, delicate, fine-limbed monster from an alien hell. At her command
thousands had died horribly during the Red Moon Games. Trampled,
drained of blood, shredded by talons, poisoned by fangs, tortured,
flayed and inflicted with unspeakable indignities worse than pain. Yet
she possessed the sadist's love of beauty, of decadent riches, luxury,
sensual surroundings, and love.

He arose with one fluid motion and faced her. His body had been bathed
and scented with perfumed oils. His trappings were new, the grey
leather of the Anghorians. A long sword swung at his side.

"The Mistmen are yours," he said. "And this has all been a trap to get
me here?"

"Yes. You are mine now, as are all the others. We have ways here to
control the heart and the mind of those who are not quite willing to
accept me. I have employed these methods often."

He inhaled deeply. His chest swelled. And a wave of almost overpowering
ecstasy swept him in a surging tide of passion. How many years he had
waited for this one supreme, delectable moment of revenge!

And now he was alone with her. And there was nothing to stand in his
way. Or was there? She was no fool. She must have protection. He could
see nothing.

His eyes clouded as he looked at her. That haughty body would soon
writhe and scream under his hands. And before she died she would know
the full meaning of torture.

But first he would learn the nature of this mystery. "Where is Mahra?"
he said. "And what is the seventh plain?"

"Our scientists call them plains," she ignored the first question. "But
they are really worlds coexistent with this one. We have explored six
of these worlds. This, Venus, is the sixth. I and my kind came here
from the second."

Moljar blinked. His barbarian mind was quick to accept the strange and
the marvelous. It was not at all unbelievable that these Anghorians
had come not only from another world, but from another dimension of
existence. A coexistent world. It was only unexpected.

"All matter and all chronosophy are one and concomitant," she said.
She swayed toward him. "Our scientists perfected the Matrix which can
synthesize matter to any of these various worlds or plains. It changes
the consistency of the atom, much as a lens magnifies objects to fit
the perspective of your eye."

No longer able to control himself, Moljar stepped to meet her, flexing
his hands and trembling violently. She must not get suspicious until it
was too late. Until he had her between his hands.

"And why do you stay on Venus? Why do you kill us, and ravish this
world?"

"My world was drab, colorless, uninteresting. It was so dull there.
Our civilization destroyed the past which was lawless and exciting. I
came here. And from the Red Moon Games I have gathered about me here
at Anghore all the greatest warriors in the System. It was wise of me,
do you not think so, Moljar? The planets themselves helped me. Terra
and Mars weeded out the best by isolating the half-breeds and mutants.
Then out of these, I select the very best, by a process of elimination
during the Red Moon Games. From the best among the survivors of the
Games I choose the Mistmen. And from the Mistmen I choose you, Moljar,
to rule by my side. The Mistmen can conquer the Universe."

"Many have dreamed of such a conquest," said Moljar.

"This is no dream. We have inexhaustible power on our side. Weapons we
can unleash that would stun the System into passive madness. Defense
they have no conception of. And, if we had to, we could fight from the
vantage of other plains of being, of which the dullards of the Solar
Worlds have no concept, though these countless worlds flourish all
about them. Work by my side, Moljar."

"Why me?" said the half-breed. "I am not of your kind."

"No Anghorian could stand against you with equal weapons, Moljar. The
best of two worlds flows in your veins. Your heart is metal fibre, and
your brain has never known fear. Nor could it ever understand defeat.
There is no other who could stand by your side. And when I tire of the
empire we shall build, and move on to other plains of entertainment,
you may stay and rule. You can be King of a Universe, Moljar."

"None of which is so important as keeping my pledge," said Moljar. He
clutched at her slim, throbbing throat, but again he had forgotten the
extra-system origin of these non-humans. Her body was an unspringing
coil. She landed lightly ten feet away. A high piercing shriek of
frenzied rage and frustration sputtered from her pink, snarling face.

"Savage!" she finally said as he came toward her. "You have gone too
far!"

"Not far enough yet," said Moljar. He leaped after her. She eluded him
as he dodged after her doggedly. She sprang this way and that like a
forest cat. And finally she stopped and her fingers briefly touched the
wall. Panels slid noiselessly apart.

"You asked about the girl," she spat. "Look!"

Moljar froze. There was a square there revealed. A mass of electronic
equipment. Parts were vaguely familiar, but over-all arrangement
completely beyond the grasp of his barbaric desert mind. Within a
column of light, stood Mahra, looking at him. Fine glowing filaments
imprisoned her.

Somehow, through the weirdly glowing strands that would send her into
some hellish land only Alhone could name, she managed a wan smile.
Beyond the glowing filaments, grey-furred catmen moved dials and
studied gauges and charts.

"Wait!" cried Alhone's grotesque mewing face. "Turn off the matrix
power. Do not send the girl yet. Moljar wishes to accompany her to
hell!"


                                   V

The three catmen complied without comment. They apparently were highly
specialized brains, incapable of normal reaction. Their faces reflected
mechanical minds, specially bred, unemotional. Moljar's narrowed eyes
followed the motions of one as he turned dials. The light faded from
around the girl. The filaments faded to a rusty brown. Mahra's eyes
turned, looked directly into Alhone's. A shiver went through Moljar at
the strange glow that emanated from them.

Clanking of steel spun him around. The Anghorians whom Alhone had
summoned were crashing into the small room, and Moljar sprang to meet
them. His sword whipped free, darted, an invisible arc. He killed the
first one who came within reach before the Anghorian's sword could
move, his straight blade splitting the pink skull.

He saw one raise a peculiar looking device like an electro-gun, though
smaller. He heard Alhone's shrill cry, "Swords only! I would watch him
fight once again. Before he goes away."

Others joined the Anghorians. Martians. Terrans. Half-breeds. Their
eyes were dull, and they fought without heart.

Moljar sidestepped a thrust, even as he parried one slash, and slipped
under a third. His black eyes glittered like a basilisk's and his lips
froze in the Martian tribal smile without mercy.

His sword darted past a blade that sought to parry. It sheathed a foot
of its length in a Martian's belly. He gasped agonizedly and went to
his knees. And another, a Terran, swept past him, lunging savagely,
raining blow on blow so furiously that Moljar countered only with
superhuman effort. He retreated warily before the cursing, sweating,
yammering warriors, coolly parrying thrusts and strokes and watching
for his chances to kill. When possible he kept articles of furniture
between him and his attackers, while his sword circled, fluid light.

They were dying one by one. Moljar sensed something wrong. Why? Surely
Alhone had seen enough of this final exhibition. Soon it would be too
much. Already only two of her Guards remained. And they were wary, not
aggressive, playing for time. They were waiting for Alhone's order to
employ their energy weapons. But as he charged in, flailing, slashing,
she was withholding that order. Why?

Moljar parried one wild catman's blade easily and, on the rebound,
felt his sword crunch, saw the catman fall to the side with his neck
cut half through. But move though he might, he was too late to defend
himself completely against the second and remaining Guard. He parried
slightly, the sword struck a glancing blow across his head, and bit
deep into his shoulder. A red mist gathered over his eyes. He lifted
his blade like heavy metal, very slowly it seemed, saw it sink as
slowly into the Terran's skull. It stuck there. Moljar, through a
welter of sweat and blood, tried to withdraw it as the dead man sank
down to his knees. But his weight pulled the sword, gently, it seemed,
from Moljar's nerveless fingers.

He turned and lurched toward the Matrix. The scientists were standing
in shocked frozen stances. The filaments about Mahra's body were still
cold. Her strangely bright eyes remained fixed on Alhone's. Moljar
staggered around, shaking his head, fighting the whirling darkness that
threatened to choke out the light.

The Princess Alhone's eyes were wide, staring, as though hypnotized.
Her body was leaning forward in a taut arc. Her hands were spread
outward as though attempting to ward off some invisible power. Her
mouth was open, twisting, but only faint unintelligent gibberish
spattered out. But there was still a mad fanatic fire as she sprang at
him, her taloned paws outspread, slashing at his face. He scooped up a
long sword as she screamed.

"The Matrix! Turn it on and go. Send the girl to hell alone!"

He swung her arms aside, agony lancing his bleeding shoulder. As she
twisted off balance, he wrapped one arm about her, and swung her off
her feet, just as another detail of Guards hurtled toward him.

"Tell them to get out," he said. "Or I'll kill you."

She knew he would anyway, but she preferred less immediacy. He lifted
his other arm, thrust the dripping sword point against her breast. She
coughed something from her straining throat, and the Guards retreated
hastily. The panel closed behind them.

"Tell your scientists--" he began, and stopped as her mewing laughter
interrupted him.

He looked into the Matrix. The filaments were glowing purple. But the
scientists were gone! He dragged Alhone's writhing body after him into
the mass of equipment. A gigantic maze of meaningless tubes, wires,
bulbs, dials, buttons and switches and coils. He cursed blindly. He
could not turn off the Matrix!

"Mahra! Mahra!" Her body was faintly stirring beyond the now singing
and vibrating filaments.

Between peals of piercing whistling laughter, Alhone was shrieking,
"She will go to the seventh plain! The she-devil!"

Moljar could destroy the Matrix, but only a burning cataclysm could
result from such an act. At least, even in the seventh plain, she would
be alive for awhile, and perhaps he could bring her back.

Mahra was on her knees, now on her feet, swaying. She turned. Moljar
flinched. Those eyes. They blazed, and held. She had gone mad. With
a savage roar of pent up blind hot rage, Moljar clutched Alhone's
neck and began squeezing it slowly. All his suppressed hate, his
frustration, the years and perils of his long, long quest, his longing
for revenge, was in the terrible strength of his fingers ... but,
without any logical reason, a thought entered his mind, restrained his
hands ... a faint far sound, but one of screaming urgency....

_Don't, Moljar. Let her live._

       *       *       *       *       *

He sobbed in frustrated rage. It was deviltry. He tried again to
squeeze that throbbing neck, but his fingers remained frozen. Then the
mental voice in his brain repeated, _Let her live, Moljar. This is
Mahra. Let her live. She knows the Matrix. Mahra...._

He staggered back, blinking, shaking his head. He dropped Alhone. Her
body thudded on the crimsoned floor. She raised up stiffly, her eyes
staring widely, her arms trembling. She walked stonily to the Matrix
and turned a dial. The Matrix's shrill humming, now almost beyond his
auditory range, died slowly as the glow of the filaments faded.

Alhone adjusted some other part of the complex panel. The filamented
threads lifted slowly until Mahra could crawl beneath them. She ran
sobbing, and Moljar took her easily into the folds of his red dripping
arms.

Alhone had turned. She looked at Mahra with that indescribable hatred
burning a raw-edged flame in her eyes.

"So you mutants, some of you anyway, are telepathic. That is why the
Normals fear you so. I am helpless here. Now. There is nothing for
me to do but escape." Her hands spun dials as she talked. "I go to
whatever plain waits my pleasure. I am tired of this one." She looked
at Moljar through veiled eyes. "I have seen all I can see here."

While the filament threads dropped down, she ran beneath them. They
began to glow, rapidly now, for the last time.

"I won't let her escape me now," said Moljar. "Even if we have to die
with her." He hurled his heavy long sword directly into the blazing
heart of the Matrix.

There was a crackling, then a thunderous growing roar of stupendous
unleashed power. A blinding, glaring explosion sent Mahra and Moljar
hurtling backward. Stunned, they staggered to their feet, supporting
each other, groped for the panel out of the room.

A globe of burning white energy was expanding rapidly, eating up wall
and metal and air with thirsting ferocity.

It devoured its own base and plummeted downward through the towering
heights of Anghore. Burning, blasting, eating, destroying. It ate
straight down into the bowels of the Venus beneath the Mountains of
Maghrone.

Through the trembling, smoking chaos, the tottering ruins of Anghore,
Moljar and Mahra blindly fought their way. The towering gateway was
blasted as though by a tremendous electronic charge; they ran through
the cavern and over the twisted gates and far up the beach of grey sand
before they finally paused, panting, and looked back.

Anghore was a smoke-belching crater. A thundering volcano of burning
energy.

They stood breast to breast, looking at each other. Half-breed and
mutant. Outcasts. Scourged. Excluded and estranged. The hated and
feared. Her eyes half-closed beneath his. Her lips parted slightly, and
her body was soft.

"No wonder the Terran Normals are so fearful of you mutants," said
Moljar. "The rumors are true. You can control minds!"

She nodded, eyes still almost closed. "Some of us can, sometimes. It
isn't easy."

"Then why do you not rule them? If you can."

"If we feel like it, maybe we shall. Some day. When the time is right.
Besides, we only want to rule those who deserve to be ruled."

His arms tightened. She submitted with a strange, eager smile to the
pressure of his muscles. "Well," he said softly. "Is the time right?
And do I deserve the honor?"

Against his, her lips answered.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRINCESS OF CHAOS ***

***** This file should be named 64214-0.txt or 64214-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    https://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/2/1/64214/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
