ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Asteroid Justice, by V.E. Thiessen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Asteroid Justice

Author: V.E. Thiessen

Release Date: January 12, 2021 [eBook #64270]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ASTEROID JUSTICE ***




                           ASTEROID JUSTICE

                           By V. E. THIESSEN

           What was Sam Knox up to now--drifting helplessly
            in a tiny eggshell across black oceans of space
              with two weeks' grub? Was this the way the
               great man-hunter deftly snagged his prey?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Sam Knox touched a button in the control room of the _Wanderer_, and
the draperies slid back from her transparent nose. He stood a moment, a
sturdy compact figure, gazing into the dark.

"Look at them!" he said bitterly. "They hang there like stars."

Before the _Wanderer_ he could see the mining fleet at the edge of
the Asteroid Belt, their identification lights twinkling out from the
enshrouding ebon mantle of space.

They might as well be stars, for all the progress he had made with
them. He had been here a week, spreading his nets for asteroid
fragments like the rest of them, and never a sign of his presence had
they shown. They hung there, cold and aloof--almost suspicious, he
would have thought, had they any reason to be suspicious.

Not that they were unfriendly by nature, these men who spread their
nets to trap the errant meteors; but they were a clannish tribe, known
to one another from season to season, more snobbish than any social
ruling class. They were close-knit, bound together by bonds of danger
and hazard, and the dream of sudden wealth.

Perhaps it is only a matter of time, he thought. Perhaps time will make
me one of them. He must win their friendship soon, if he were to find
Pell.

And that was his job, to find Pell. His was not the hunt for wealth
in the heart of some fragment of asteroid. Yet the excitement of the
search had long been a part of his life. What Sam Knox hunted he found.
Sam Knox hunted men.

He had two bosses. The most lenient of these was the Department of
Terran Justice. His other boss lay deep inside himself, demanding
much--expecting everything.

Through the left lower quadrant of the transparent nose he saw one of
the nets flare into quick acceleration. It was too far away to be his
own, and he watched it, each corner of the net a flaming ribbon of
rocket fire in the velvet black of space.

A moment later he knew whose net it was, for the mining ship
_Fleetblast_ slid by him in pursuit, controlling the rocket-powered net
from the remote controls in her maw. The _Fleetblast_ sped on, unable
to equal the instant acceleration that the touch of the meteor sent
into the rockets of the net.

But she was soon catching up. With her remote controls she was
slowing the rockets of the net, as she increased her own speed. In a
few minutes both ship and netted meteor would be hanging motionless
alongside, the meteor caught and halted just as a small boy catches a
swift ball in his cap.

Sam grimaced. What would it contain when they melted it open with the
heat rod? Probably nothing. Possibly mineral ore, to be refined into
metal for new heat rod tips, for from this the miner fishers of the
Asteroid Belt eked out their precarious existence.

But perhaps--PERHAPS--there was wealth and fortune. Here might be the
dream come true. Here by the luck of space, might lie one of the rare
jewels of the asteroids, spawned in some once-fiery sun, and flung into
space in the heart of a fragment. For this the eternal hope of man
yearned, and men spent their lives fishing and mining here. For this
they risked the swift and horrible infections of life in the Asteroid
Belt.

       *       *       *       *       *

The visaphone sprang into life. Sam recognized the voice as that of a
woman.... "_Fleetblast calling Aeries...._"

The _Fleetblast_ lay some fifty miles ahead, a speck of light, where
the chase of her net had led her. Just to her right, closer, lay the
only near ship, the _Aeries_.

"_Aeries speaking--go ahead...._"

Before the _Aeries_ her net spurted four ribbons of flame. In a surge
of power the _Aeries_ was off, acceleration full, straining like a
hound after a rabbit. There would be no more conversation from the
_Aeries_, Sam knew, until the catch was landed.

The woman was unaware of this development, unaware that the _Aeries'_
flaming jets were bearing her far away.

"... _father is hurt ... an open wound and we have no more penicillin
X...._"

No penicillin X! No ship took to ether for the "Belt" without a supply
of that important penicillin derivative.

Sam touched the controls. This was the break, this was the luck of Sam
Knox. The jets responded with a trail of flame. He pulled alongside the
_Fleetblast_ in a few minutes.

He could spare a hundred thousand units of the drug, he figured. He got
it from the storeroom. He was quite close to the other ship, so decided
against using the ship's lifeboat, a tiny space-dory, and simply donned
his space-suit. He then yelled into the visaphone, "_Fleetblast_--open
your port ... I'm bringing the drug." He saw the lock open on the
_Fleetblast_ and opened his own, propelling himself into space and
across the void. A few guiding blasts of his hand rocket and he was
inside the lock of the other ship.

A woman helped him out of the space-suit. "Come quickly," she urged.
Sam had time to note that she was young and had red hair as he followed
her to the living quarters.

An old man lay there on a bed. His trouser had been cut away from his
right leg, revealing a crushed and bleeding condition below the knee.
Already the leg was beginning to show the faint greyness that indicated
the start of the quick infection.

The miner's name, Sam found as he treated the leg, was Timas Rorke.
There was a faint trace of Irish blood in him, responsible perhaps for
the red hair of his daughter. He lay back in the bed, complaining at
the foolishness that had put him there.

"That damned meteor! I was in too big a hurry to load it, and it
slipped and crushed my leg." Timas looked at his daughter. "What do
you say, Nancy, shall we call it a season and run back to Terra?"

"There are a few more weeks of good fishing. I can make out."

Sam looked at her, this slip of a girl who was undertaking a man's
work. For all her courage she was still a woman, slim and lissome. She
was not too tall, rounded sweetly, and well-formed. Under Sam's gaze
she lifted her eyes to his, eyes as brown as new-plowed soil.

He had been long away from women, and the sight of her set a wildness
coursing in his blood. Strong as she was he could crush her in his
arms. He had strength to take care of both of them.

She might have let him too, in other circumstances. Her eyes had
already noted the compact sturdiness of his body, noted and approved.
But he was Sam Knox, and in his hunt for men a hundred women had tried
to deceive him, so that he set his mind against this weakness, and
looked away across the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fool! He was a fool to have not seen it sooner. The photograph of a
white-haired man stared from a lucite frame. It was Pell.

The report was true. Here was Pell, inventor of the heat rod, hiding
where the metal was mined. If he were here, he must be found, and
returned to Terra to finish the sentence he had escaped three years
before.

He might not have to finish that prison sentence. Only one thing was
certain now. In the investigation of the illegal operations of Terran
Metals Corporation, the truth had been concealed by the fact that a way
had been found to deceive the mind-probe.

When that shattering fact was discovered, that the basis of justice was
not dependable, action was swift. The mind-probe was analyzed, and the
defect removed. But the truth of the facts in the Terran Metals Trial
was now uncertain. Guilty or not, the Department of Terran Justice
wanted Pell.

Sam took a step toward the picture. The girl's voice shocked him from
these thoughts. "I don't know how to thank you, Mister--?" She paused
expectantly.

"Knox, Sam Knox."

She held out her hand. "We are so glad to know you."

"You are the first one to want to know me. I've been here a week, and
everyone seems to think I have a plague."

Timas Rorke spoke from the bed. "You must forgive us. We are a hard
people to get acquainted with, especially now."

"Why especially now?"

The visaphone buzzed. It was the _Aeries_, now alongside. Nancy went to
operate the lock.

A young man came from the lock with her. He was dark and saturnine. His
glance viewed Sam with open suspicion.

Nancy said, "Sam Knox, Ned Hawkins."

Sam held out his hand. The dark young man made no move to accept it.

Nancy said sharply, "Ned! Mr. Knox may have saved father's life. He
brought the penicillin X while you were chasing meteors."

Ned Hawkins said with surly ill grace, "Sorry. We're obliged to you,
Mr. Knox."

Sam turned to the old man on the bed. "You were about to tell me why
everyone is so suspicious."

Timas Rorke sat up in bed. His eyes blazed. "Thieves!" he said gustily.
"This season there have been thieves. Old Joe on the _Miner II_ lost an
asteroid jewel worth ten thousand credits. Somebody beat him, slipped
him chloroform, and made off with it. Been several cases like it."

Ned's dark suspicious eyes were on them. Sam crossed and picked up
Pell's picture. "Relative of yours?" he asked casually.

Hawkins slammed the flat of his hand against a bulkhead. "That does it!
What kind of miner are you that you don't know the Master Miners?" He
whirled to the old man and the girl. "Tell him nothing more."

Sam said simply, "This is my first season. How am I to know anything
with everyone so suspicious? If you need more medicine let me know." He
picked up his space-suit and went into the lock.

Nancy came quickly into the lock after him. She said in a low voice,
"Thanks for everything. You must forgive Ned. He is jealous."

Sam held the helmet to his space-suit in his hands. "If I had a claim
on you," he said swiftly, "I should be jealous, too. Not man nor devil
should take you from me." He put the helmet on and turned to the lock.

Once back in the _Wanderer_, he considered what he had learned. Pell
was here, so much had been established, and he had at last a foothold
of acquaintance among these people. That should help.

       *       *       *       *       *

And indeed it did. It was through Timas Rorke, he suspected, that four
old men now stood on the floor of the _Wanderer_.

He hadn't, however, quite planned on falling in love. It was difficult
for him to believe that so strong a bond could be forged in the week he
had known the Rorkes. The increasing jealousy of Hawkins was testimony
to the growing tenderness between Sam and Nancy Rorke.

The elder of the four men stepped a little forward. "Mr. Knox, we are
here because a friend of yours has requested that you be admitted to
the Miners."

He was right then; the week's cultivation of Timas and his daughter was
bringing results. "Tell me about the Miners," he asked.

"We are far from Terra here. Years ago we found the necessity for
establishing some sort of society for our own pleasure and protection.
We have our own government, our own laws. Each year a number of the
older miners are chosen Master Miners. This year there are seven. We
formulate all laws, and sit in judgment on those who break them."

Master Miners! Pell was one of these. Sam kept the planes of his face
wooden. "What must I do to become one of this society of yours?"

"You must submit to questioning to prove you are worthy. You must swear
loyalty to all our other brother miners. You must agree to be guided by
our laws, as supreme here, as long as you are in the Asteroid Belt."

"Very well, I agree."

They took a small space-dory to the largest ship in the mining fleet,
the governing ship, _White Lark_. Sam wondered if he were being wise.
If they had the latest mind-probe, all the truth would come out in the
examination. His connection with Terran Justice would be discovered,
and perhaps all chance lost of taking Pell. It was unlikely that they
had the new probe, he decided, and if they had the old model he could
fool them.

They had no mind-probe at all. They simply asked him questions, the
seven of them, trained to evaluate character swiftly in their rough
life, they watched him as he answered their questions. They sat around
him in a semi-circle, and in the center, in charge, was the man he
hunted. He had found Pell!

The questioning began. When they touched the dangerous fringes of
knowledge with their probing questions he held his face even more
wooden than usual, careful too to let no emotion show in the timbre of
his voice.

And at last it was over. Pell rose and looked at the circle of Master
Miners. "I am satisfied," he announced. "Are there any objections to
the entrance of Mr. Knox as a Miner of our Order?"

There were none. Pell said, "You will take the oath of fealty tomorrow,
here. There will be many who want to meet you." He walked with Sam to
the lock, to the small space-dory in which they had come.

Sam thought, I can take him now. I can slip a dis-gun into his ribs,
and take him now. The reaction of the other miners was unpredictable,
but with speed and skill he could make it. And once aboard the
_Wanderer_ no mining ship could approach his super-drive.

His hand slid down his pocket to the cold plastic butt of his dis-gun.

There was a rattle as another dory struck the ship. A space-suited
form slid into the lock. He took his hand off the dis-gun. The figure
stripped off its helmet, and a mass of flame-colored hair cascaded down
around the shoulders. It was Nancy Rorke.

"Am I too late? I just heard you were up for membership in the Miners."

Pell put his hand on her shoulder. "He's passed the tests. We
administer the oath tomorrow."

Sam took his hand from his pocket. There would be danger. He would not
make his play with a woman here.

Nancy's brown eyes were on his, filled with warmth and gladness. "I'm
so happy. I just couldn't believe it when Ned told me he had put you
up for membership."

Ned Hawkins had proposed him for membership! Sam pondered that all the
way back to the _Wanderer_.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ceremony that joined Sam Knox and the Order of Miners was a simple
one. There were many of the Miners in the _White Lark_, to witness
the oath of fealty, and many more watching on their visaphones. The
coldness was gone; he was one of them, and he felt the strong warmth of
their friendship. Nancy's eyes smiled at him all through the ceremony.

There was one curious thing. Ned Hawkins was not present at the
beginning of the ceremony.

The voice of Pell pronounced. "You are now one of us." Men gathered
around Sam, shaking his hand and clapping him on the back.

"_Stop the ceremony!_" It was a beautifully timed entrance, an actor's
entrance. Hawkins stood just inside the room, still in his space-suit,
holding the helmet in his hand. He came forward now, his magnetic boots
clanking on the steel floor of the _White Lark_.

Pell frowned at him. "If you have objections, you are too late. After
all, you were the one who proposed his membership. Miner Knox is one of
us now."

"Then he is subject to our law. He is no miner--he is a thief."

Pell said somberly, "That is a serious accusation."

"Old Joe died today as a result of the chloroforming and beating.
Before he died he tuned in the ceremony on the visaphone. He identified
this man as the one who beat and chloroformed him. He died soon after.
His heart couldn't stand the excitement."

Pell looked at Sam. "What have you to say?"

"Would you believe a wild tale like that? Hearsay testimony from a dead
man? It's simply an invention."

"Invention?" It was one of the Master Miners. "Why, Hawkins proposed
you for your membership."

Ned Hawkins said raspingly, "If it is all hearsay, I suppose you won't
object to a search of your ship. The Asteroid jewel that was stolen is
probably there."

The pattern was too clear to Sam. It was of course a frame, a perfect
frame, if the jewel had been planted aboard the _Wanderer_. They would
find other interesting things, too. The super-drive of the ship would
be as useful to a thief as to a Terran Justice man.

They found the jewel carelessly hidden in the _Wanderer's_ upholstery.

Sam said, "If you will put us both under the mind-probe, you will learn
the truth."

Pell frowned at him. "I know from my own experience that the mind-probe
is worthless. I was convicted once by a mind-probe trial. No, we will
have a simple trial; we will try you after the fashion of older times.
Verbal testimony, evidence, and a jury of Master Miners. We will try
you at once. Justice is swift here in the Belt."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sam Knox sat hopelessly in a tiny space-dory. Through the view port
he could see the twinkling lights of the Asteroid fleet vanishing in
the distance. And in his mind he could still hear the voice of Pell,
pronouncing sentence like the tolling of some bell of doom.

"Miner Sam Knox, you will be banished forever from the Asteroid belt.
If you return, it is the duty of every Miner to ray you on sight. And,
if any befriend you, they may share your fate. Your ship and all your
possessions are forfeit. You will be placed in a small space-dory with
food and fuel for two weeks. If in that time you can come to some
larger ship or outpost of civilization, you are to be congratulated. If
not, may God have mercy on your soul."

He had lost the _Wanderer_--he had only this tiny dory and two weeks'
food. That was bad enough, the chance of wandering forever in space
without food or fuel, but worse than that was the thought that he had
failed. He had found Pell, and failed to bring him back. He sat for a
moment, face in hands, tasting the bitter failure. There was, too, an
aching sense of loss when he though of Nancy Rorke.

There was a tarpaulin over his stocks of supplies. He might as well
take inventory. He rose and went to the rear of the tiny craft. He
pulled back the tarpaulin. Curled among the supplies was a woman, her
hair a russet halo of glory. She stood discovered, shyly looking at
him. It was Nancy Rorke.

Sam wanted her. Lord, how he wanted her. He crossed and seized her in
the solid strength of his arms, crushing his lips and body against
hers. "You fool!" he breathed. "You wonderful, glorious little fool!"

She said simply, "I knew you would need me. I found which dory they
were to use and stowed away."

Now there was food and water for only a week. All but fuel was now
divisible by two. They were far from the usual space-lanes, and the
chance of passing craft was microscopically small. Somehow, Sam knew,
they must win through. Somehow he must wring defeat from failure.

They were three days out when they saw a ship. It seemed somehow
familiar, and it circled them three times before it had decelerated
enough to pull alongside the slower dory. The lock opened and Sam
propelled the tiny dory inside. Nancy said in amazement. "It is Pell's
ship. Do you suppose they know the truth?"

Sam knew it was not that when Pell opened the door of the dory. His
voice was curt. "I have extra food and fuel. The ship _Sol Shine_ is
passing between Mars and the outer planets. You should be able to
contact here at these co-ordinates at the time noted." He handed Sam a
sheet of astrographic calculations.

Nancy caught at his arm. "Why bring us this?" she asked. "Is it because
of me?"

Pell smiled at her. "No, my dear. It was not because of you--or perhaps
it was. Perhaps a woman's heart is surer judge than a jury of Miners."

He raised keen eyes to Sam. "Once they found me guilty," he said. "I
was not. I cannot rid myself of the belief that perhaps others, too,
might not be guilty."

"The others do not know you came?"

"No, else my life would be forfeit."

Sam Knox said wonderingly. "You risked that, for the sake of possible
justice?"

Pell inclined his head.

"Why go back? Come to Terra with me."

"I cannot."

"Listen, man." Sam was urgent. "I came from the Department of Terran
Justice to find you. The Terran Metals case is re-opened. The new
mind-probe is just. Come back and we will find the truth."

A strange look spread over Pell's face. "Terra! The glorious
rose-gardens of Terra." He shook himself. "I dare not, but as I have
given you life you must promise me this. You must not tell where I am
to be found."

Sam Knox said bitterly. "I promise nothing. I came to the Belt to find
you." He sidled forward. If he could reach Pell--

A dis-gun rose in Pell's hand. "Be it so. Then I must move on." He
closed the door of the dory on them and threw the release that thrust
them from the lock of his ship. He left them sitting--watching his
ship's lights recede in the darkness.

Nancy put her hand on Sam's arm. Pell's ship was now a speck of light,
vanishing in the black. "Never mind Pell. We will go to Terra together."

Sam said, "I had almost convinced him. He wants to go to Terra. You
heard him. If I could talk to him again...."

Nancy tugged at his arm. "Sam! What are you thinking of?"

He touched the controls of the space-dory, and it swung in a long
curve, doubling back.

"No! Sam, No! They will kill you if you go back. Forget Pell and come
with me to the _Sol Shine_."

Sam Knox's jaw was a ledge of granite. "I came for Pell."

The tiny dory leaped forward, nose pointed for the Asteroid Belt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sam slid in under no power, using the inertia of the ship, lights off,
alongside the _Fleetblast_. He said, "Let's hope your father is alone."

Timas Rorke was alone. He was hard to convince, but his daughter could
work wonders with him. "Very well," he grumbled. "I'll see if I can get
Pell over here." He shrugged into a space-suit, and slipped his own
dory out of the lock. He blasted away to find Pell.

"Look, Sam," Nancy called. "It's the _Aeries_."

The _Aeries_ slid by the _Fleetblast_, moving her nets to some other
sector of space. The visaphone sounded, "_Aeries calling Fleetblast ...
Aeries calling Fleetblast...._"

Sam gripped Nancy's arm. "We must not answer. Perhaps he will go on."

For a moment the _Aeries_ paused, then it flared an orange trail of
acceleration as it headed onward.

And the _Fleetblast's_ dory scraped alongside. From the lock stepped
Pell and Timas Rorke.

Sam Knox stood, wide-legged, facing Pell, a compact and resolute form.
"I came to take you back to Terra."

Their eyes met and searched each other. Pell sighed. "Almost I am
willing to trust you. You, too, are a man who will risk life for a
principle."

"If you are innocent, I promise you you will be cleared. There is no
flaw in the mind-probe now. You know we cannot use the probe at random,
but, if you bring charges against those who framed you, we can use the
probe to get the truth."

Pell straightened. He seemed to grow taller. "I'll do it."

"You'll do what?" From the opening lock Ned Hawkins came, a dis-gun low
in his hand. Behind him were four older men. Sam saw Pell's face grow
pale. They were four of the Master Miners, four of those who dispensed
justice in the Asteroid Belt.

One of them said gravely, "In the name of all Miners, I arrest you,
Pell, for aiding a convicted thief. Have you anything to say before we
take you way?"

Hawkins jabbed the muzzle of the dis-gun tight in Sam's back.

And that was a mistake. Men of the Terran Police Services had long been
trained to defend against a weapon held too close. Sam Knox whirled,
striking up and out with his arm, whirling away from the weapon, and
striking with his hand. He stepped forward then, seizing Ned's gun arm
in a bone-breaking leverage, and the dis-gun dropped to the floor. He
shoved Hawkins away and scooped up his weapon.

[Illustration: Sam Knox whirled ... seized Ned's gun arm....]

Now was the time, he thought, to take Pell and run for it. Perhaps they
would not find it important enough to follow. They would not know that
contact with the _Sol Shine_ was possible.

Then Sam groaned. He had forgotten. Too much time had elapsed, and now
he was farther away. The slow space-dory never would be able to reach
the co-ordinates in time to intercept the space-liner.

Somehow he must force the truth. He lifted the dis-gun. "I'm going to
blast you, Ned Hawkins. Before I go I'm going to burn you down. I know
you stole the jewel and killed Miner Joe. I know you were jealous and
framed me, giving up the jewel as a sacrifice to your jealousy. Tell
the truth, Hawkins, and cleanse your soul before you die."

Ned Hawkins pulled back his lips in a dark snarl. "Shoot," he said.
"Shoot, you murderer and thief."

A Master Miner said, "We will hunt you down, Knox. We will hunt you
to the ends of the galaxy. Even though you kill us all, there will be
others to search you out."

"Tie them," Sam Knox directed. Pell obeyed. Sam swung the dis-gun in a
compact circle, and the front sight opened the flesh of Ned Hawkins'
forearm and let the blood flow.

Sam Knox waved with the gun then at Pell, at the girl and at her
father. He said bleakly, "If one of you moves toward the medicine
cabinet, as God is in Heaven, I'll ray you down."

He hunkered down on his ankles, a lone figure waiting and watching.

"You devil," Ned's voice struck a high pitch. "_You devil_, give me
penicillin X."

They had not understood till then. The eyes of the bound Master Miners
were wide with horror.

Sam gestured with the gun. "Rest easy," he said. "We shall only have to
wait an hour at the most."

The red blood that spurted from the arm stopped, and the chronometer
ticking in the control room was the only sound in the chamber. Minutes
passed, and the arm which had been red with blood was now greying.
Swiftly, the infection of space was taking over.

Nancy Rorke said shrilly, "You are not human." She got up and moved for
the medicine cabinet. Sam Knox tilted the dis-gun, and the heat ray
lanced out and burned a hole in the chair ahead of her. She sat down
quickly, with a white face.

Ned Hawkins' eyes were brilliant as a trapped beast. He looked at
his greying arm. It was swelling now and becoming painful. His face
contorted. He breathed agonizedly.

Pell reached for the medicine cabinet, and Sam burned the knob under
his hands.

"You devil!" Ned was breathing hard. Sweat stood on his forehead. "What
do you want?"

"The truth."

"I know nothing."

Sam said, "I am going to burn the penicillin. You people can't keep
away from the drug. It's either burn the drug or one of you." He
pointed the dis-gun at the medicine cabinet in the corner.

"I'll talk--give me the drug--I'll talk!" Ned began to babble in
confession.

Sam said mercilessly, "The proof. Where is proof of what you say?"

"On the _Aeries_. There is a false compartment under the control seat.
All the stolen goods except the one asteroid jewel are there."

Sam lowered the gun. "Give him the drug quickly, and you will save him
for Miner's justice."

As Sam bent to untie them, one of the Miners said, "If the stolen goods
are in the _Aeries_, we owe you an apology."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the _Wanderer_ Sam Knox finished the astrogation. The jets were
warming, for the first blast of fuel that would send him Terra-bound.

Nancy Rorke stood watching over his shoulder. "And what would you do if
I would not go with you?"

Sam smiled at her. "I think I'd carry you away regardless."

"I am afraid you would, but I am more afraid you might not, so I go
willingly."

From the doorway Pell said quietly, "The jets are perhaps not so
charming, but they are ready, too."

Sam fed fuel to the jets, and the _Wanderer_ leaped like a hound,
heading for home.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ASTEROID JUSTICE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
