ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Bunzo Farewell, by Charles V. De Vet

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Bunzo Farewell

Author: Charles V. De Vet

Release Date: January 14, 2021 [eBook #64292]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BUNZO FAREWELL ***




                            BUNZO FAREWELL

                         By CHARLES V. DE VET

            _"Have you ever seen a dead mahute, or even one
              that was ill? Or anything that looks like a
              graveyard?" Tang and Lutscher knew not the
            answer ... but maybe Bunzo, the clober, knew._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Planet Stories September 1953.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Sometime during the one hundred and seventh day out of Gascol 11 the
hourly signal of the tracer beam changed from a tired burp to a sharp
ping. Sammy Tang knew then that Lutscher had landed and that the
long chase was nearing its end. Over three years on the trail of the
system's most wanted criminal, and now they would meet for the first
time.

Tang had dogged his quarry's flight from the first moment his ship's
beam had picked up its trace. During refueling stops on a dozen worlds
he had sometimes been weeks behind, sometimes only hours, but there had
been never a glimpse of Lutscher or his ship.

The chase had led, first, across, and then down the long arm of the
spiral nebula known as the Milky Way, through the portion occupied by
ever expanding humanity, and beyond.

Lutscher made his final stop for fuel on Gascol 11, the last occupied
world at the tip of the arm. When Tang reached there Lutscher had
gone--out into the blackness of deep space.

That way, Tang knew, led to suicide, for in that direction lay nothing
until the next galaxy, M. 31, and Lutscher had neither the fuel nor the
years of life to reach there. Tang followed. In the beginning he had
expected that Lutscher's flight would turn out to be only an elusive
tactic, and that he would attempt to double back in a dodging curve.

But Tang had underrated his man.

The second week out his ship entered a dust region, or dark nebula,
and when it emerged, the third week, he could see ahead a spot of
brightness that marked an island star cloud. His respect for Lutscher's
ingenuity and resourcefulness went up several points.

Tang spent the next several hours studying his instrument board and
making calculations. At the end his forehead was sprinkled with fine
drops of perspiration. He had enough fuel to reach the star cloud, but
not enough to return! He kept the ship steady on its beam.

The star cloud expanded during the following days into three star
systems--one with observable planets--and on one of them Lutscher had
landed.

Tang timed his landing to come in during the late daylight. His landing
flares would draw attention during the dark hours, and any interval
earlier in the day would give the possible inhabitants of this world a
better opportunity to investigate before he was ready for them.

He had only time enough to observe that the topography of the planet
was mostly stone and sand, with occasional patches of vegetation--and
that Lutscher's ship rested less than a hundred yards from his
own--before he was enveloped in the swift fall of darkness.

He wasted no time in preparing his ship for possible contingencies.

The first button he pressed on a small wall panel activated the
electric eye and automatic guns in the elevated nose of the ship. The
second set in motion the instruments, in the blister at the base of the
ship, that tested the planet's atmosphere, gravity, moisture content,
and temperature. There was nothing more he could do until daylight.

Pulling down his sleeping board he kicked off his shoes and rested
his shoulders against the wall of the compartment. He lit a cigar and
seemed thoroughly preoccupied with the smoke that curled up and through
the air vents.

Even being so near the completion of his task brought Tang no feeling
of elation or triumph. The men of his profession came from many worlds
but their calling had shaped them into a common mold. The internal
discipline that best fitted them to spend long months of solitude in
their lonely space ships left them without the high rises or low
valleys of emotion experienced by most men. If his mission failed Tang
would waste no energy in purposeless regret or worry; if it succeeded
his only sensation would be satisfaction.

His cigar finished he straightened his land-muscled form on the
sleeping pad and rested his head on his folded hands. When the lights
went out three minutes later he was sleeping dreamlessly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tang prepared himself a substantial breakfast the next morning, and not
until he had leisurely consumed it did he check his instruments. He was
not too surprised when he found the planet's atmosphere entirely safe
for human habitation.

Whatever else might be said about Lutscher he was not stupid. There had
been no blind chance involved when he headed this way. The star area
was uncharted but Lutscher had either been here before or had learned
about it from someone who had.

The planet's temperature, Tang found, ranged from a low of 72
degrees Fahrenheit during the night to a present reading of 78. The
atmosphere's only deviation from Earth-normal was a slightly higher
oxygen content. Gravity tested 1.29 Gs. A human could function here
quite efficiently.

Unhurriedly Tang buckled on a compact electric pistol and a stout
knife. He hooked a canteen of water on his belt, and slipped a packet
of concentrated food tablets into his shirt pocket. Throwing the sling
of his field glasses over his shoulder, he was ready to leave.

He pulled down the port door release and it slid open a bare six inches
and stopped with a dull click. It was locked and only a force powerful
enough to spring the metal could open it wider until he was ready. He
was certain that no moving object had approached nearer the ship than
eighty-five feet during the night or the firing of the guns in the nose
would have warned him, but the designers of the ship had built it for
men who took chances only when necessary.

Dull daylight came in through the port opening. Outside the ship
something moved.

Tang studied the moving something intently, but it was too far away to
be seen clearly. From where he stood it appeared to be a huge insect.
He pressed the lock release all the way down and stepped into the
opening left by the sliding door.

Slipping his field glasses from their case he put them to his eyes.
The creature he had seen stood gazing back at him. It was definitely
an insect-type, except that it had only four limbs, and stood almost
as tall as a man. Its limbs and body were armored and thin, reminding
him of the cartoons he had seen of stick-men. Squatting upright on two
large legs it stood motionless, holding its smaller upper limbs bent
clawlike at its sides. Sunlight glinted from two eye-lens clusters on
each side of its thin sharp head. It resembled a giant praying-mantis.

For several long minutes Tang studied the insect but it made no further
movement. He lowered his glasses and sat down in the doorway with his
legs hanging outside, making himself plainly visible to his observer.
He suspected that it was not a member of the planet's dominant species,
but he waited to see how it would react to him. That reaction would be
the best demonstration of its intelligence.

After a wait of over fifteen minutes the creature turned slowly and
hopped away. It traveled in long awkward jumps much like an Earth
grasshopper, its progress aided by short wings which Tang noted then
for the first time. It entered a dense copse of brush that grew in
large rings like the practice exercises in a schoolboy's penmanship
book.

Tang rested in the doorway for a good hour after the insect had
disappeared before he stepped to the ground. He looked for the planet's
sun but the sky was thick with clouds that seemed not to move. He
walked around the ship. There was nothing of immediate interest within
sight. Locking the port door he walked toward Lutscher's ship.

His progress became slower as he neared his goal. Whether or not
Lutscher was inside he would probably have his guns set for intruders.
True, most watch guns when activated gave a warning shot overhead
or into the ground, before concentrating on an encroacher, but with
a criminal a man never knew what to expect. And Lutscher could be
ruthless. However, he reached the ship without challenge.

Picking up a shiny bit of crystal at his feet he rapped on the vessel's
metal skin, and waited. He knew the sound would be heard inside, while
his voice probably would not. He repeated the rapping several times
before he decided that Lutscher was not inside. Shrugging his shoulders
he turned away. His next move would be to investigate the brushland
into which the stick-insect had disappeared.

Once there he found that the openings he had noted were not ringlets,
as they had appeared through his glasses. Rather they were formed by
branches growing up from large flat limbs lying on the ground. The
branches were bent inward like barrel staves and gave the limbs the
appearance of huge skeleton torsos, with the ribs pointed upward. Small
finger-like roots reached from the limbs and buried themselves in the
sandy soil.

Progress through the woods, Tang soon found, was possible only by
walking through the tunnels made by the branches. Traveling diagonally
was slow, tortuous work, while walking alongside the limbs was
impossible--they grew too close together. However, the branches of the
tunnel only met well above his head, and the limbs themselves offered a
hard walking surface. He made good progress.

The temperature had gone up several degrees since morning and Tang
was soon perspiring freely. The planet's greater gravity pull brought
a loginess to his limbs, but this was compensated for by a strange
feeling of well-being. The feeling, he surmised, was caused by the high
oxygen content of the air he was breathing.

He walked until he came to the branch tunnel's open end and stepped out
into the planet's murky sunlight. Ahead loomed the trunk of a tree,
a huge trunk probably thirty feet in diameter. He noted now that the
large limbs that ran along the ground grew from this trunk. It took him
only a minute to perceive that the entire plot of vegetation, which
must have covered over a square mile, originated here.

       *       *       *       *       *

With no warning of its approach, a creature, semi-human in form, walked
into view from behind the tree trunk. Tang stifled his instinctive urge
to reach for his pistol and stood motionless. He had learned long ago,
that when playing a strange game, to let the other fellow play first.

The native possessed two limbs upon which he stood, and two others,
set where its shoulders should have been, but there his human likeness
ceased. Yet there was something about him that more nearly approached
the human standard of a man than did the stick-insect which he had
observed earlier.

The man-creature's body and limbs were well filled out, and covered
with slate-gray skin. There was no neck, his head was merely an
extension of his trunk. Two eye clusters, set high on his head and
wide apart, and a long, slit, mouth just below were his only facial
features. Two flesh-feathered apertures, situated where the breast
nipples would have been on a human, and evidently respiration openings,
fluttered with each breath the creature took. He was entirely unclothed
and in one grubby fist he gripped a long-bladed knife.

About the native's feet frisked a small four-legged animal with the
proportions of a pudgy teddybear. It too was neckless, with the same
dead-white skin as the native, and reminded Tang of a bouncy little
ball of bread dough.

The native stared at him until the silence grew thin and Tang decided
that he would have to make the first move.

"Hello," he said. He knew there was little chance the other could
understand him. In fact, there were no organs of hearing, as far as
he could discern, yet he hoped to convey, by the tone of his voice
that he was not a hostile intruder. He knew by experience that almost
invariably an animal, or a human, feared a stranger, and reacted to
that fear with either flight or a challenge. Sometimes that fear could
be allayed by an early demonstration of animity.

Abruptly the native seemed to lose interest in Tang. He turned and
began cutting small branch shoots from one of the surrounding limbs.
These he placed on a pile which he had started on the ground.

Tang drew a deep breath of relief. Still keeping a wary eye on the
native he walked over to the tree trunk and stood leaning against it.
The other ignored him and went on with his work.

When the pile of shoots reached a size that satisfied him, the native
picked them up and entered one of the branch tunnels leading in the
opposite direction from which Tang had come. Tang followed.

They came out of the woods onto the same type of sandy plain that
Tang had found when he first landed. A half mile away he could see a
small river, and collected along its banks were dozens of adobe-like
dwellings. They stretched away along the river banks until lost to
sight among the foothills.

The small animal made a sound like the tinkling of little bells and
the native walked three more steps and stopped. He bent down and the
teddybear pet sprang up onto the pile of branches and rode there. Once
the native turned his body to see if Tang was still following, then
paid no further attention to him until they reached the village.

On the way they met several more of the man-type creatures, each with
one of the doughballs tagging along, but none of them did more than
glance at Tang. Most of them ignored him completely.

Once five of the stick-insects cut across their path. The native
stopped to let them pass before he walked on. Ignoring each other
seemed to be the custom here, Tang thought whimsically.

The same held true after they entered the village: Men, insects, and
pets mingled indiscriminately, each seemingly oblivious to the presence
of the others.

"Welcome to our fair city," a voice said, and Tang spun halfway around.


                                  II

Tang pulled his sidearm part way out before he noted that the man
standing in the doorway of one of the huts was unarmed. He was also
shoeless and bare to the waist. Sweat ran down the blond hairs on his
chest and a week's growth of blond whiskers sprouted from his face. The
visible portion of his features, and his candid blue eyes, were young,
but his temples were peppered with gray.

"Surely you can't be as surprised to see me as you seem," the stranger
said. "Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Bill Lutscher; and, of
course, you are the famous man-hunter, Sammy Tang."

Lutscher smiled and stepped from the doorway with his hand extended.
Tang gripped the hand unhesitatingly, astounded to find himself liking
the man. Then he remembered ruefully that Lutscher was famous for his
charm. In fact, that charm was the very quality that had indirectly
made him the sought-after man he was.

"I'm certain that the pleasure is more mine than yours," Tang said,
responding to the other's display of lightness.

"Won't you come in?" Lutscher asked. "Perhaps I can give you a drink? I
have saved a bottle just for this momentous occasion."

Tang acknowledged the invitation with a nod of his head. They walked
into the hut together. Lutscher had evidently brought most of the
movable furniture from his space ship with him, Tang observed, for the
room was quite well furnished.

"Be careful not to stumble over Bunzo," Lutscher said, nodding toward
a side wall of the room. Tang followed his gaze and saw that Bunzo was
one of the doughball pets that seemed so universal here. But Bunzo was
as large as an average-sized dog.

Strangely, while the little pets had intrigued Tang, he found this one
repulsive. It lay sprawled on the floor of the hut, its body gross and
over-fed, looking up at Tang with little pig eyes, mean and quiet. On
one side of its white skin was a dark patch shaped like a fist.

"He's a repulsive looking brute," Tang said.

"Isn't he though?" Lutscher agreed. "But he's company, and he has his
uses." Lutscher laughed: He was a laughing man. "I wouldn't trade him
for anything I can think of offhand," he said as he turned to a row of
boxes piled against the far wall of the hut. "Now let's see. Which box
is it in? Ah, here it is."

He turned and found himself staring at the pistol in Tang's hand.
"I'm afraid we'll have to reverse the roles," Tang said. "I'll be the
host--in my ship."

Lutscher seemed genuinely surprised. He staggered back a step and sank
heavily into a chair next to his pet. He held the bottle of whiskey
in his lap with one hand, while the other idly stroked the blubbery
head of the drowsing Bunzo. "For a minute I'd forgotten," he said,
recovering his composure. "You still think that you can take me away
from here, don't you? But of course you can't understand yet that the
cards are stacked against you."

"Is there anything you'd like to take with you when we leave?" Tang
asked.

"It won't work, Sammy," Lutscher warned.

"On your feet," Tang said.

Lutscher rose without hesitation and walked to the door ahead of Tang.
Outside they found a dozen of the natives waiting. Others were coming
up fast. They blocked the way with their bodies.

"You might kill a few of them," Lutscher said, "but you'll never get
away."

It took Tang only a second to weigh the odds and make his decision. "It
looks like the first round is yours," he said, putting up his gun.

They walked back into the hut and sat down. "Tell me," Tang said. "Am I
a prisoner?"

"Not at all," Lutscher answered. "You may leave anytime you like. But
you can't take me with you."

Tang eased himself down on the cot Lutscher offered and sat in deep
introspection. But not for long. He decided quickly that he must learn
more about the present set-up before he made his next move. Perhaps he
could get the information he needed from Lutscher. "What's the deal
here, Bill?" he asked. "Have they set you up as some sort of demi-god?"

Lutscher seemed eager to talk. "Part of the deal, as you call it, will
have to remain my secret," he said. "I'd be a fool to show you all my
cards. But ask any questions you care to. I'll answer some of them at
least."

"All right. How did you get word to your friends to stop me when I
started out with you? Or did you station them outside your door when I
first came?"

Lutscher shook his head. "I didn't, and, as you can see, they aren't
there now. But just try to take me out of here and they'll be back
before you can walk two steps. Incidentally, they call themselves
mahutes. The stick-insects are ankites, and the pets, like Bunzo here,
are clobers. Now you know the names of the only denizens of this world
I've seen so far."

"How did you know about this place?"

"In my business you either have something like this in reserve up
your sleeve, or the long arm of the law, represented by yourself, my
friend, will soon pull you in. Enough to say that I learned about it
from someone who had been here. I'll confess, though, that I had my
anxious moments coming in. I was afraid that the information I had
about the place might have been, ah ... colored, by the imagination of
my informer. But, as you can see, it turned out to be a very delightful
place."

"You know I'll never leave without you, don't you?" Tang asked
abruptly. "Why haven't you had me killed?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"At first I planned that," Lutscher answered with friendly frankness.
"But after I investigated the situation, and understood it, I saw no
reason to do so. In fact, I have strong hopes of convincing you to stay
here of your own free will."

"You must have picked up a touch of madness somewhere along the line if
you think that."

"No, I don't think so," Lutscher said, growing very earnest. "Look at
me. What kind of a man do you see?"

"I see nothing except the man I'm going to bring in for trial."

"You must have my record," Lutscher said, disregarding the reply.
"And you've probably studied it and my characteristics until you know
me better than I know myself. Remember them? I'm the highstrung,
hypertension, ulcer type of guy. A doctor told me once that my
metabolism burns too fast.

"I've gotten into most of my trouble because of an inner drive too
great for my own good. I always had to try to change the status quo, to
incite unrest and rebellion among the natives of the occupied worlds,
to steal the unstealable, to pit one world against another. Is that the
kind of man you're seeing now?"

"No, it isn't," Tang said thoughtfully. "I'd best describe you now as
a contented man. If I didn't know better, I'd say you hadn't a care in
the world."

"And you'd be right," Lutscher said, leaning forward in his desire to
emphasize his sincerity. "You haven't been here long enough to feel it,
but this planet does something to you. I don't know what it is. I've
gained twenty pounds in the two months I've been here. I've lost my
unrest, my drive to change things. I'm happy now. Why should I want to
return to the outside where life is like a thin crust that you walk on
carefully, always afraid of breaking through? And some morning you'll
wake up and you'll have the key, the answer to the universe, and you
won't want to leave either."

"I've wondered briefly about you, myself," Tang said. "And I'll
admit you're not the type of man I expected to find. But I've formed
conclusions different than yours. And I don't envy you. A dope addict
has the same feeling you have when he's under the influence of the
drug. But I don't envy him. What have you been eating since you've been
here? Anything at all native to this planet?"

Lutscher nodded. "You may be right about that," he said. "I'm not so
stupid that I've missed thinking of it myself. At first I thought the
good feeling might be just the lethargy induced by the atmosphere's
high oxygen content and the greater gravity.

"But my final conclusion was pretty much the same as yours. During
the past month and a half I've lived exclusively on the diet of the
mahutes--that's the shoots you saw one of them gathering. But what do I
care about the source of my well-being? The only thing that concerns me
is that it's there."

"I'm afraid that to me the source would be more important," Tang said,
"and I'll stick to my own food. Right now everything looks very rosy to
you. But if it turns out that you've been eating a dangerous drug and
it begins to wreck your system, how will it look then? Especially if
you find that you can't break the habit?"

"But it's not dangerous," Lutscher insisted, "and I'll prove it to you.
Tomorrow we'll take a stroll through the village. I'll point out a few
things that will surprise you. I presume you'll be spending the night
with me?"

Tang nodded.


                                  III

That night Tang slept with a guarded alertness. It was a part of him,
which he could turn on and off, as the occasion demanded. Six hours
after he dropped off to sleep he awoke, with all his senses alive and
ready for action. Without moving he listened. Inside and outside the
hut all was silent.

Rising quietly he drew his gun and walked over to Lutscher's cot. He
shook the sleeping figure.

"What...?" Lutscher asked sleepily, sitting up.

"We're going to try it again," Tang said. "Get dressed. Quietly."

"Get dressed?" Lutscher's brain was still sleep-clogged. "Why? Oh, I
get it," he answered himself. "You think you can take me away while the
mahutes are sleeping. Well, I suppose the only way you can find out is
by trying."

"Don't waste time," Tang snapped.

Lutscher rolled out of bed and began pulling on his trousers. Over in
the corner Bunzo grunted, and stirred uneasily.

"I'm ready," Lutscher said a minute later.

"You'd better put on your shoes," Tang said.

"I assure you I won't need them," Lutscher answered. Behind the words
Tang could sense his silent laughter.

Outside they found that the first streaks of dawn were breaking over
the river. They walked fifty feet before one of the mahutes shuffled
out of a hut ahead of them. Another came from their right, and behind
them they heard two more running toward them.

"There'll be more waiting for us up ahead," Lutscher said. "Are you
going to try to shoot your way through them?"

Tang let his shoulders droop. "We'll go back to the hut," he said.

"You think you've won again," he told Lutscher, once they were there.
"But I had a double purpose in taking our little trip. I think I know
now how you communicate with your friends."

Lutscher glanced up. "You do?"

"Yes. Of the three species here only the clobers have vocal chords. I
suspect the others are deaf as well as mute. Therefore, they either
have a symbiosis among themselves, which you've somehow learned to
penetrate, or their communication is telepathic."

"Good boy," Lutscher said enthusiastically. He seemed to harbor no
resentment. "I'll admit you figured it out faster than I did," he
said. "But I knew you would in time. And I allowed for that. You're
right. All life on the planet, as far as I have been able to learn,
is telepathic. But I still have the advantage. You don't know how to
contact them. And I don't think you ever will find out."

"You're stupid if you think that." Despite himself Tang found that
he was losing his temper. The man was so cocksure, and so far so
untouchable. "It may take me time but I'll find it. I'll lay you odds
on that."

"Yes, I guess you will," Lutscher said thoughtfully. "Sammy, you're
like a bulldog with a bone. You never let go, do you? I suppose I
should admire that quality in you, but I find myself wondering if I
shouldn't have killed you when I first saw you."

"You probably should have," Tang said. "Because from here in I'm going
to make certain that you never get the chance. Right now we're going to
go through your things."

A motion of anger went over Lutscher's face as he caught the
implication of Tang's words. "Damn you," he said.

"Get your boxes and dump them on your cot one at a time," Tang said.
"I'll pick out what I want."

For a moment it seemed that Lutscher was going to be stubborn. But
then, with a trait he had of moving his eyes and not turning his head,
he glanced at the gun on Tang's hip and shrugged. He rose to his feet
and walked over to his pile of boxes.

As Lutscher dumped the contents of each one on the cot Tang went
through them and picked out what he wanted. At the end he had two
pistols, a rifle, and several knives. "Now I'll take the key to your
ship," he said.

Wordlessly Lutscher reached into his pocket and pulled out a chain with
a small key on the end. He tossed it on the cot.

"I'll leave you for awhile," Tang said. "But I'll be back. And if I get
any interference from your friends I'll kill them and you too. I don't
_have_ to bring you back alive, you know."

       *       *       *       *       *

Back at Lutscher's space ship Tang spent an hour transferring the
fuel remaining in Lutscher's tanks to his own ship. When he finished
his tanks were well over three-quarters full, more than enough to get
him back to Gascol 11. He made no attempt to remove the weapons from
Lutscher's vessel. He had the key, and if Lutscher were able to get
that away from him there would be no stopping him anyway.

As he walked leisurely back to the village he wondered how Lutscher
would receive him.

Unexpectedly Lutscher appeared to bear no grudge. "I'll admit I was a
bit riled when you took my guns," he said. "But I suppose it's just the
cop in you. And there's no point in our carrying a grudge. After all,
we're the only humans on the planet and we're going to be here a long
time, so we might as well stay friends."

Tang nodded but made no reply.

"Another thing," Lutscher said. "You've missed an angle in your
calculations. You think that if you can discover how I communicate
with the mahutes you'll be able to get your way. But once again you've
underestimated me, my friend. The impression I've emphasized on them
is that you're a bit demented. You act illogically. You're driven
by compulsions that have to be restrained. And the mahutes are very
susceptible."

Tang smiled. "You're clever," he said. "I'll admit it. But some day not
too long from now you and I will be heading back to civilization. I
promise you that."

"That remains to be seen," Lutscher answered. "Do you still want to
take that trip through the village we were talking about last night?"

"Why not?"

They walked out of the hut and into the clouded sunlight of the
outdoors. "Have you any idea just how intelligent the mahutes are?"
Tang asked.

"Very low quotient," Lutscher answered. "In fact I'd say that most of
their reactions were prompted by instinct rather than intelligence.
They have approximately the same reasoning power as smart dogs."

"What else have you learned about them?"

"Not too much," Lutscher said. "But I've made a few surmises." He
seemed to have entirely dismissed from his mind the unpleasant morning
occurrence. "Have you ever heard the word, androgynous?"

"It refers to flowers, doesn't it? Something about their being able to
seed themselves without stamin from other flowers?"

"That's pretty much it," Lutscher agreed. "I think that biologically
the mahutes are the same as those flowers. Each possesses within
himself the complete mechanism for self-fertilization. At least to
me there's no apparent sexual differences in any I've seen, or even
evidence of reproductive organs."

"That's interesting," Tang said. "How about the clobers? Could there
possibly be any biological connection between them and the mahutes?
Without exception each mahute has one with him wherever he goes."

"That's true," Lutscher replied. "But I suppose they just like pets.
By the way, we'll have to stop here. We're at the edge of the section
where the ankites--the stick-insects--live. It's taboo territory."

       *       *       *       *       *

For some reason Tang received the distinct impression that Lutscher had
changed the subject to avoid speaking further of the clobers. In the
back of his mind he filed that away for future reference. "Why should
this area be taboo?" he asked. "The ankites seem to come and go among
the mahutes without hindrance. Or is it taboo just to you and me?"

"No. A mahute wouldn't think of entering here. They have some deep fear
of the place. What it is I don't know. They don't seem to fear the
ankites themselves."

They turned and started back for their own section of the village.
"There's another thing that puzzles me," Tang said. "That's the sealed
huts. What do you know about them?"

"Nothing, except that about one in every three is sealed. I don't
know why. The strange part is that I've seen the mahutes sealing them
with mud and sand from the river--that's what the huts are made of
originally--and I've tried to investigate but they won't let me near
them then. I suppose it'll be quite awhile before we fully understand
the organization here."

"What do the ankites and the clobers eat?" Tang asked.

"The same tree shoots that the mahutes eat," Lutscher answered. "The
mahutes gather it for them."

"Doesn't that seem strange?" Tang asked. "Do you think there's any
possibility that the ankites are in control here? You said the mahutes
weren't very intelligent."

"I hadn't thought of that before," Lutscher answered. "But I don't
think so. I believe they're simply two primitive species that have
found the means of living together in mutual cooperation."

"Just what do the ankites contribute to that cooperation?"

Lutscher shook his head. "You've got me."

"By the way, you were going to show me something that would explain
your theory of well-being."

"That's right," Lutscher said, "I was, wasn't I? Well, this is it. Have
you noticed that there are young mahutes, and middle-aged ones, but
none that are old? I'm convinced that the food here is the source of
immortality!"

"That's absurd," Tang said, startled at the other's suggestion. "In the
first place, how could you tell how old they are? Perhaps some of those
you think are middle-aged are really old, or even ready to die."

"You know better than that," Lutscher answered. "There are always
signs of advanced age, such as slow movements, wrinkled skin, or bent
figures, that can be read by anyone looking for them. Those signs are
not present here. Furthermore, have you seen a dead mahute, or even one
that was ill? Or anything that looks like a graveyard?"

"I haven't," Tang answered. "But that would prove nothing. I haven't
been here long enough to say that there aren't any because I haven't
seen them. Neither have you. And naturally these people would have
their own rituals for disposing of their dead. Perhaps the burying is
done in secret." Suddenly he stopped walking. "I have it," he said.
"The sealed huts! I'll wager that's their burial custom. When one of
them dies the others seal his body in his hut."

For the time it took him to draw two deep breaths Lutscher seemed half
convinced. Then, "I'm sure you're wrong," he said, but there was an
excitement in his voice: The kind of excitement that pleased him. "If
you're game let's find out," he urged. "As soon as we get the chance
we'll break into one of the sealed huts and see what's there."


                                  IV

The next day Lutscher was missing.

Tang had gone to the space ship for a box of cigars and when he
returned he found that Lutscher's hut had been freshly sealed. As he
stood, uncertain what his next move should be, one of the mahutes came
up and took him by the arm.

He allowed the mahute to lead him to another hut nearby. Inside he
found all of Lutscher's possessions and his own. The furniture had been
carefully placed in the same positions it had occupied in the original
hut. But Lutscher was nowhere in sight.

During the time it took Tang to smoke one cigar he debated with
himself. If they were holding Lutscher prisoner he should be in no
immediate danger. Each sealed hut had air vents in the top that were
never closed. If they had killed him then no amount of haste could help
him. On the other hand, he decided, perhaps they were subjecting him
to some ritualistic torture. He rose to his feet and buckled on his
gun. He'd have to try to get into the sealed hut. If the mahutes hadn't
killed Lutscher he might still be able to save him.

Once outside Tang found the mahutes maintaining their guard. He walked
toward them and they bunched themselves ahead of him. He drove his
shoulder against the nearest one. The native reeled aside but made no
effort to strike back. The other mahutes pressed forward, bearing Tang
back by the very weight of their numbers. He'd have to use more drastic
measures.

He drew his gun but he doubted that they were intelligent enough to
recognize it as a weapon. Pointing the gun at the feet of the nearest
mahutes he squeezed the grip and held it tight while the lethal ray
burned the sand to a bubbling, smoking cauldron. The mahutes stared
stupidly at the molten spot, moving back only when the heat scorched
their legs.

Tang forced them to either side until he had cleared a path to
Lutscher's hut. Taking advantage of their distraction he dashed forward
and turned with his back to the hut.

The mahutes did not hesitate. They rushed him in a body.

That left him no choice, Tang realized. He shot the first to reach him
in the leg. As the native stumbled and fell, others climbed over his
body to get at Tang. He shot a second and a third and still the mahutes
came on. He tried to hold them back by playing the gun's beam at their
feet but they walked into the beam and fell dead or mutilated. Several
of the inevitable accompanying clobers died with them.

Soon the blood and the slaughter of the single-minded natives sickened
Tang and he loosened his grip on his weapon. The mahutes grabbed him
by the arms and legs and carried him away from the hut, making no
attempt to disarm him. They deposited him some yards away and went back
to their posts. Other mahutes came up and carried off the dead and
wounded. Tang cursed and staggered into his own hut.

For a long while he sat with his head in his hands, lost in a gray
obsession. Lutscher had undoubtedly caused the interference of the
mahutes by the picture he had given them of Tang being insane. But
whatever the reason, as a fellow human, it was his duty to rescue
Lutscher, if at all possible. But there was a limit to what lengths he
would go to do it. After all, was the life of one criminal worth that
of all the mahutes he would have to slaughter, or even of the ones he
had already killed? The decision was a hard one.

He heard a noise and looked up. A mahute was standing in the doorway.
In his arms the native held one of the little doughball pets. He set
the clober on the floor and withdrew.

A peace offering? Tang didn't know, but he decided to wait. Perhaps he
would have a better chance to rescue Lutscher later.

What he needed now was some way to communicate with the mahutes. If he
only knew Lutscher's secret. For a moment he debated eating the native
food. Perhaps that was the necessary first step. But his whole nature
shrank from the thought. The risk of making himself an addict was too
much to ask--at least until all else failed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The clober _was_ company. And it seemed to crave affection. It frisked
about Tang's feet until he picked it up and held it in his his lap. As
he went through his troubled thoughts he idly stroked and fondled the
little pet.

Tang set himself on a schedule. Once every hour he walked to the door
and looked across to Lutscher's hut. Always the situation remained the
same.

Late that night he finally fell asleep. The little clober crawled up on
the bed and curled into the crook of his arm.

He awoke twice during the night. Each time, by the light of his flash,
he could see the patient mahutes keeping their vigil. And each time he
returned to his bed the clober crawled back into its sleeping place
in the crook of his elbow. He found himself growing quite fond of the
little beast.

The third time Tang awoke he saw, through the slit in the eye he
opened, that it was daylight.

_Father?_ For a moment Tang thought he was still dreaming. Had he heard
a voice? He lay quietly, his mind still not functioning too clearly.

_Father?_ the voice came again. But was it a voice? Now that he thought
of it he was certain that there had been no actual sound. It was more
like an audible thought.

A faint inkling of what was happening penetrated his consciousness.
He remained quiet, deliberately keeping his mind in its drowsy,
slow-functioning sleep fog. And then he caught the call in all its
inflections. The sense-impression he caught was not father, exactly;
rather it was a compound picture of benefactor, loved one, guardian.

And Tang was certain the mind picture had been communicated to him by
the clober at his side. He had made his first telepathic contact with
the planet's denizens!

For a half-hour after he arose Tang was unable to reestablish contact
with the little doughball. Then he realized that he was trying too hard.

He sat down and forced himself to relax. His mind gradually calmed and
made itself receptive. _Food? Hungry?_ the clober's thoughts reached
him.

Tang rose and walked to the door. The mahutes had left a small bundle
of shoots at the side of the hut, as they had done every morning for
Lutscher. He brought several of them in with him.

All during the morning he spent his time perfecting his ability to
catch the clober's thoughts. By noon he had it mastered. The little
beast's intellect was quite rudimentary, registering its need for food,
desire to sleep, for affection, and love for its benefactor, himself.

When it became hungry again at noon Tang tried his next experiment.
Lutscher had been able to communicate with the mahutes, and quite
probably with Bunzo. He should be able to do the same.

_Food ... hungry_, the clober broadcast. Tang looked at it, and in
his mind commanded it to go out the door and get a tree shoot. At the
second attempt the little pet turned and obeyed!

So far so good. Now to try his luck with the mahutes.

He went to the door and tried to project his thoughts to the passing
natives. He failed. An hour later he came back in, tired and
discouraged. His head ached with a dull pain that seemed to be trying
to force its way through his skull. He let his body sag across the bed.
The clober climbed up and joined him.

Suddenly he had the answer. The natives were never seen without an
accompanying clober. And Lutscher had had his Bunzo. They were unable
to make direct telepathic contact: It had to be done through the
clobers!

He sprang to his feet and went outside, with the clober clutched in his
arms. A mahute was passing in the packed-sand street. Directing his
thought to the mahute, but through the clober, Tang thought, _Stop_.
The mahute stopped!

_Go_, Tang commanded, and the mahute went on. Success.

He made one more test. The next mahute to pass was carrying a load of
shoots. _Leave them by my door_, Tang directed. Without hesitation the
mahute turned and deposited the shoots.

Next Tang felt for the mahute's thoughts and caught them readily, but
they were almost purely functional, bearing little resemblance to the
activity of a reasoning intellect. There was no chance of his learning
anything of Lutscher's whereabouts there. However he had succeeded in
what he set out to do.

Now for the final step. He went inside and buckled on his sidearm.


                                   V

Suddenly the clober squirmed in his arms and a chaos of mad,
slobbering, disconnected thoughts washed against Tang's mind and
staggered it with their very morbidity and black, hopeless fear.

For a moment he stood mentally numbed, desperately striving to sort the
hodgepodge of impressions into a semblance of lucidity.

But they hit him, wave upon wave, as tangible as physical blows, and
he fought the nausea they brought as he read them. _I'm dead ... like
a spider ... wasps! My God, this can't be happening! The bastards,
bastards, bastards. Move. I've got to move! I can't!_ The thoughts ran
together like the incoherent mass of a madman's ravings.

Then the mind Tang was hearing seemed to halt, as though it felt a new
thing. _Sammy? Sammy? Can you hear me?_

"I hear you!" Tang burst out, speaking aloud, but remembering,
distractedly, to keep the clober in the forefront of his mind.

_Then come and kill me. For God's sake, come and kill me!_

Fighting down the shock that threatened to overwhelm him Tang dashed
from the hut, still clutching the little clober. They wouldn't stop him
this time, he vowed.

A semblance of reason came to him before he reached Lutscher's hut and
he halted. There was something he should try, he realized, before he
began killing. He looked down at the clober and then sent his message
at the mahutes. _Go back to your huts!_ he commanded. They made no move
to leave.

Then he understood that he was unable to contact the whole group at one
time. It had to be done individually.

_Return to your home_, he directed, concentrating on the nearest
mahute. Silently it turned and left. Tang repeated the order to
another. Again and again until he was alone.

There was no time to waste. He aimed his pistol to fire at a tangent
and blasted a hole through the wall of Lutscher's sealed hut. He
crawled in.

The sight that met his eyes was one that Tang knew he would see in his
nightmares the rest of his life.

On the ground against the far wall lay the hide of one of the large
clobers. He recognized the dark fist-shaped mark on the hide's side as
having belonged to Bunzo. Standing on the hide was one of the young
stick-insects, its sharp little face ugly with some emotion and its
mouth casing drawn back from its pointed teeth.

At Tang's feet lay Lutscher. He was muttering hoarsely to himself, and
in his eyes that glared at the ceiling was madness--stark, terrible
madness!

The flesh had been torn from Lutscher's left arm, stripping it to
the bone. A shiny, gelatinous coating, covering the raw meat of the
shoulder, seemed to have stopped the blood flow. Great chunks of
flesh had been torn from one hip, and his teeth showed through where
Lutscher's cheeks had been.

The ankite insect moved toward them and Tang beamed the ugly little
head from its body.

Lutscher muttered something and Tang knelt at his side. God help you,
he thought. "Is there anything I can do, Bill?" he asked softly.

"It's too late to help me now," Lutscher rasped feebly. "But there's no
pain, Sammy." He seemed rational now, but Tang knew it would not last
for long. "Just kill me, Sammy. And get out while you still can."

"What happened?"

"One of the ankites came ... when was it? Yester--yesterday?"
Lutscher's whispering voice broke on the last word and he seemed about
to slip back into his madness, but he drew a deep breath and went on
talking.

"The ankite bit me. It must have injected a poison. I couldn't move.
They sealed me in with Bunzo. Soon after Bunzo screamed and burst.
You see the set-up now, don't you Sammy? The clobers are like cocoons
on Earth. I think metamorphosis is the word. The ankites emerge from
the clobers, like butterflies come from cocoons. And the poor, stupid
mahutes feed them, care for their clobers, and then furnish the _piece
d'occasion_ for the transformation feast." He laughed, and the utter
lack of mirth caused a spasm of sickness in Tang's stomach.

"And you ..." Tang started to say.

"And I.... To the ankites I'm just another mahute. I'm like the spider
that the wasp paralyzes and brings to its nest to be consumed by
the young while it's still alive." Lutscher's voice rose to a shrill
whisper. "Sammy! Kill me. Please! I can't take anymore!"

"I'll get you back to the ship," Tang said.

"I'm too far gone for ..." Lutscher stopped. His eyes seemed to try to
smile. "Go ahead, Sammy," he said. "Try."

Tang put one arm under Lutscher's shoulders and the other under his
knees and lifted him off the ground.

Lutscher's body came unhinged in the middle. A groan started in his
throat and blood gushed from the raw places on his body. Tang put him
down and Lutscher's mouth opened and a long sigh came out. He knew they
would never be able to hurt Lutscher again.

Tang's mind had gone cold now. There was little he could do for
Lutscher, but what little he could do, he would. He drew his gun and
sprayed its beam up and down the length of Lutscher's body until
nothing remained except a charred lump. At least he'd furnish no more
meals for the ankites.

On the way back to the space ship Tang met exactly eight of the
stick-insects. He counted them.

"One for you, Bill. Two for you, Bill," he counted as he burned each
one down. Nothing he had ever done gave him as great a sense of fierce
satisfaction.

[Illustration: _Almost tonelessly Tang counted as he burned the
stick-insects one by one: "One for you, Bill. Two for you, Bill...."_]

Less than an hour after he left Lutscher's remains he blasted off the
planet. He hated to think of the three months he would have to spend
alone before he reached Gascol 11.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BUNZO FAREWELL ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
