ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Where the Gods Decide, by James McKimmey

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Where the Gods Decide

Author: James McKimmey

Release Date: January 18, 2021 [eBook #64330]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WHERE THE GODS DECIDE ***




                         WHERE THE GODS DECIDE

                        By JAMES McKIMMEY, Jr.

            _In the webbed hands of the stolid, green-faced
              ones rests the Screece gem. Some say it's a
               fabulous diamond; some an emerald; some a
           ruby ... but Caine guessed it was death itself._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories July 1953.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


_High above the wet plains and muggy jungles, above the slick rocks
and shiny leaves, rests a temple. Like most shrines of ancient order
its narrowing spires point to the sky. Men, Venusian men, walk quietly
through the restricted labyrinth of this temple, green fingers
webbed beneath the long sleeves of their gray capes; green faces
expressionless beneath the sanctity of their gray hoods. There is
movement, and these caped men circle a silver orb that lies in dead
center of the golden walls. They pace, each flat step a soundless
motion. The green fingers unmesh, spread, and come together again.
"Screece," says a flute-like voice. "Screece," says another. The
silver orb rests like a cloudy fist-sized tinsel globe, unsparkling,
while a dozen minds search out through the vastness of Venus, probing
for the cores of evil and purity. Feet pace, faces are immobile, and
through the thick air comes a shrill rising scream from the throat of
a giant black cat with deep orange eyes. The motion ceases, lidless
stares meet. "Grith?" pronounces one. "Grith?" pronounces another. And
the pacing continues, while green lips quirk the slightest bit. Minds
search...._

       *       *       *       *       *

It was that season when the jungle of Venus turned into a vapid,
steaming swamp. Sleet buds glistened like long, thin snakes, and
leaves hung limp and wet from the vine-trees. Nicholas Caine felt the
sweat prickle upon his forehead and slide down the sides of his face.
Fairchild, he noticed, was sweating, too, so that the man's shirt had
turned dark, and the close-clipped gray hair curled on his head. Only
the woman still looked fresh in her white shirt and shorts.

She was standing beside Caine's jetcopter, drinking plain Scotch from
a silver glass. Her husband, Fairchild, was drinking, too, as he sat
silently in a folding chair beneath the tip of the ship's left wing.

This is going to be a sweet thing, Caine thought, it really is.

The air was dead of breeze, and soggy clouds hung above them like an
immense stifling blanket. The man stared at his knees and the woman
swirled the Scotch in her glass. Caine kept his palms flat against the
arm rests of his chair.

He watched the woman closely. There was too much brightness inside of
her, too much nervousness, as though she were burning inside and she
had to keep moving, laughing, insulting, enticing, because she was
alive with that burning, and she couldn't stop. It wasn't the liquor,
Caine knew, because they had just started that, a few minutes after he
had brought the ship down.

They were approximately four-hundred miles from the Colony, and in the
wild stretches of this Venusian jungle, four-hundred miles was like the
distance from day to night. Here was the dark, the strange, the weird
and the wild.

Kiitz birds screamed in the distance, and their sound was like the
sound a man makes when he is touched by fire. A thick, muddy river went
over a cliff above and behind them, hitting transparent rocks with a
steady crashing noise that thrummed against Caine's ears like thunder
in a distant sky.

Teewh birds with black wings and curling yellow beaks came out of the
sultry sky and skimmed the tips of the trees surrounding the clearing.
They screeched when they dove, and they kept harmony with the unseen
stationary kiitz birds. A chilling, nerve-racking harmony.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Won't you have a drink with us?" said the woman, her teeth white
between her smiling lips.

"Thank you, no," Caine said. The woman tipped her head and watched him.
Her eyes were very blue and they mocked Caine and taunted him, while
her husband just sat there, drinking and watching his bare knees.

This could go to pieces in a hurry, Caine decided, and he rubbed his
palms against the arms of the chair.

Because, on the other hand, the husband was too quiet, too brooding,
too deliberately unseeing of the way his wife played with Caine, with
her eyes and her movements.

Her legs, Caine noticed, were the kind that would look well bare, as
they were, or in nylon beneath a skirt, and she had rather full hips,
although not too full. Her breasts, Caine could see, were well enough
developed.

She bent to rub a finger against her left knee. "Are there insects in
this part of the jungle?" she asked Caine.

"Some."

"But no grith cats?" she said, straightening.

"Not here," Caine said.

"Just where we're going tomorrow?"

"Yes." Caine looked back to the man. He was about fifty, Caine judged,
at least twenty years older than the woman. His face was lean and sad,
and there were thin lines traveling out from the corners of his eyes
and mouth that contrasted with the youthful cut of his wiry hair.

These two had come to Caine because his reputation in the Colony was
established. He had been flying tourists into the jungle for more than
three years, and while he could not predict all of this country, he at
least knew the general traits of those sections within a reasonable
radius of the Colony.

"Did you ever shoot a grith cat?" the woman asked, looking at Caine
over her glass.

"No," said Caine.

"But you've heard that they're pretty horrible and dangerous?"

"Yes." Caine wiped a hand at the sweat on his forehead. The woman was
working at the cats, her eyes shifting to look at her husband with
every word, to see how he was reacting. So far he had done nothing,
said nothing, only sat there and drank.

However, the cats were not the reason the couple were in the Venusian
jungle. Hunting animals was a dead sport for them, something done in
the past and something which had become boring.

They were looking for bigger game now. The Screece gem. And they had
flown all the way from Earth to Mars, from Mars to Venus, to find it.
The Screece gem was a myth, Caine was certain, a bit of fantasy out
of ancient Venusian lore. But they paid him well for the trip, and he
would ask no questions.

The woman stayed with the cats. "How big are these grith cats, Mr.
Caine?"

"Eight to ten feet long," Caine said. "About like a large horse."

"Only they're cats, with the claws and the fangs and all."

"Essentially."

Caine felt himself tightening inside a little. The woman was trying to
break through her husband's armor, because somewhere, sometime, he
must have had trouble hunting a cat-like animal. Tiger. Or panther. The
Martian frynx, perhaps. But she had not found her target, yet.

The man raised his head and spoke for the first time since they had
landed. "How far away is this temple, would you say, Mr. Caine?"

"Fifty miles," Caine said.

"How close to it can we land?"

"Eight or ten miles, I imagine."

"Can't we get closer than that?" the man asked.

"I don't think so," Caine said. "The temple is on top of a fairly sheer
rise of land, and I can't put the ship down there. The nearest clearing
we'll find will be about eight or ten miles away."

Mrs. Fairchild walked to her chair and sat down. "That means, then,
that we'll have to go through that much country where the cats are?"

Caine didn't answer, and the man returned to gazing at his knees. Time
moved slowly in the thick wet jungle.

"Show Mr. Caine your scar, Charles," the woman said, her voice sudden
out of the silence.

Fairchild picked up his glass from the arm of his chair and held it
tightly in front of his waist. The muscles along his bare forearms were
ridged and his knuckles paled as he held the glass.

"Don't be bashful," the woman said, smiling. "I'm sure Mr. Caine would
like to see what a cat can do."

She looked at Caine as though she were about to tell him a delightfully
domestic story that had been, until now, nurtured between just her
husband and her. "This was a leopard, Mr. Caine. A long vicious
leopard. Mr. Fairchild, you see, didn't hit him right, and so he got
Charles from about here," she tapped herself just below the neck, "to
here." She touched her waist. "It's a long scar, Mr. Caine. Isn't it,
Charles? About three inches wide, and...."

The man brought his glass down against the arm of the chair. "Shut up,
Janet. I'll tell you nicely. Just shut up!"

"_Charles_," she said, blinking in exaggerated surprise. "I just wanted
to tell Mr. Caine, because he's hunted, too, and while I don't know if
these grith cats are anything like leopards...."

The man's eyes had become wide and angry. "I won't tell you again,
Janet."

"I'm sorry, Charles." She smiled at him assuringly and blinked again.
"We're just excited about tomorrow, I guess, aren't we?"

Fairchild returned his stare to his glass, noticed it was empty, and
filled it.

"Can't I interest you in a drink, yet, Mr. Caine?" Mrs. Fairchild said.

"Not right now," Caine said.

"Oh." Her voice pouted. "But I think we should celebrate. Here Charles
and I have come all this way to find the Screece gem, and we're sitting
within fifty miles of it, and I think we all ought to celebrate."

       *       *       *       *       *

Fairchild spoke to Caine without raising his head. "Maybe Mr. Caine
doesn't really believe in the existence of the Screece gem. Do you, Mr.
Caine?" he said, looking up.

Caine took a cigarette from a package in his shirt. "I'm just paid to
get you to a temple, not to think."

"You're evading the question," Fairchild said. His eyes were narrow
now, and a bit glazed.

Caine lit his cigarette and blew smoke into the damp air. He kept his
voice non-committal. "I've heard about it. Everybody in the Colony has
heard about it."

"Correction," said Fairchild. "Everybody in the System has heard about
it."

"It's a very popular myth," Caine agreed.

The man stood up. "It is not a myth, Mr. Caine. It exists and it's in
that temple, do you hear me? There is no dammed myth about it, just
cold hard fact, and I'm going to find it and take it out of there! Is
that clear?"

Caine watched the man's taut figure. He inhaled his cigarette. "I told
you, Mr. Fairchild, I'm just paid to fly the ship and I'm not paid to
think. I'm responsible for getting you to the temple. That's all."

"Listen," Fairchild said, crossing to Caine and reaching for the front
of Caine's shirt. "Don't get insolent with me...."

Caine slapped the man's hand away.

"Charles!" the woman said.

The man blinked and touched his slapped hand against his chest. "Sorry,
Mr. Caine," he said, finally. "Didn't mean to fly off that way. Little
nervous, you see. All that time in space, searching around this way.
We're just this close, and I'm getting too nervous." He turned back to
his chair and sat down. His face became very sad again, and the lines
about his mouth and eyes seemed deeper.

The woman laughed lightly. "You don't want to pay any attention to
Charles when he's this way," she said to Caine. "It's just that this
means so much to him, finding the Screece gem. It's worth the wealth of
the System, they say, and so Charles has to have it, Mr. Caine. Because
he hasn't got any more money."

"For heaven's sake, Janet," the man pleaded.

"Are you ashamed of being poor?" she asked with false concern. She
stood up and began pacing back and forth, and Caine noticed the easy
way she moved, her hips swaying, the muscles of her long legs rippling.
"No, he's not ashamed of being poor," she said, looking at Caine. "He's
_afraid_ of it, aren't you, Charles?"

Fairchild tipped his glass to his lips, and when he brought it down,
Caine could see that it was empty again.

The man refilled the glass and held it in front of him, looking into
it, as though he might find another world there, a peaceful world,
where there weren't any cats or beautiful women with reddish hair, a
world where there might be peace and no fear. He raised the glass,
trying to taste of that world. His eyes were getting filmy.

"I'll tell you why he's afraid of being poor, Mr. Caine," the woman
went on. "It's because not only is Charles a yellow punk when it comes
to cats, but he's frightened of losing his wife, aren't you, Charles?"

Caine felt himself tensing under the cutting lilt of the woman's voice.
He was observing something, he knew, that should have been contained in
the seal of marital privacy. But here he was, caught in the middle of
it, while the woman swung back and forth, and the man seemed to crumple
further into his chair, hanging on to the glass of Scotch, as though
that were all he had left to hang on to.

And tomorrow they had ten miles of grith country to span on foot.
Sweet, Caine repeated to himself, really sweet.


                                  II

"Charles, you see," the woman said, stopping and turning to Caine,
"thinks the only way he can hold me is with money. And now he's put
every penny he had left into this hunt so that he can find the Screece
gem and keep his lovely wife. And do you know what, Mr. Caine?" She
placed her hands gently on her hips, and Caine could see the faintest
swinging movement in them. "He's right, you see."

Caine remained very silent.

"He _has_ to find the Screece gem," the woman said, smiling whitely,
"or lovely Janet is gone, slipped right out of his hands. And Charles
is just a poor little sheep with gray hair and a two inch scar, who'll
be cold and alone, while Janet--"

"Stop it, damn it!" Fairchild said, but he didn't get up and his voice
was thick.

"--while Janet," the woman said, her voice even and relentless, "will
be sleeping with someone else who can afford her, and poor old Charles
will shiver in his damned freezing bed, all alone, thinking about that,
wondering who it is, burning up his ancient jealous liver!" The woman
whirled to face her husband.

The man tightened both hands around his glass, and Caine could see the
whiteness about his mouth. The woman began to laugh, a soft, pealing
laugh that got into Caine's brain because of the very softness of it.

She walked back to her chair and lifted her own glass. Her laughter
stopped while she drank, and then it started again. She turned to look
at her husband, and her eyes danced and her lips curved. Her body shook
with the laughter.

"Who do you think it'll be?" she asked her husband. "If you don't find
the gem?" She turned to Caine. "Mr. Caine, do you have any money? I
mean, perhaps you wouldn't need as much money as Charles. I might make
some compensation for virility, you know."

Caine disregarded her. "Mr. Fairchild, we have some rugged country
to cover tomorrow. This is your party, of course, but if you keep on
drinking...."

"If I keep on drinking?"

Caine examined the man's eyes and his slack mouth. "Nothing," Caine
said. "Nothing." At least, he decided, the Scotch might stop the
needling and the pressure for the man. He deserved that much, perhaps.

"You didn't answer me, Mr. Caine," the woman said. "About you and me.
I'd like you to answer, so that my husband knows before he falls out of
his chair, you see."

"I think we all ought to get some sleep," Caine said quietly.

"Mr. Caine, really? So sudden? I'd have to check your bankbook first,
of course. Although if you give me your word...."

"If you don't mind," Caine said, his voice harsh, "I'd like to be left
neutral in whatever you and Mr. Fairchild might have in conflict."

"Oh," she said. "Well, that's just because you haven't seen the full
potential. Let me show you what you'd be getting for your money--the
way Charles saw it." She raised her glass again, drank, and stood
up to cross to the ship. She climbed the ladder to the cabin, very
gracefully, and touched the switch of the radio. Music pealed into the
warm air.

It was minor music, issuing from the Colony station, music that had
been taken from the native Venusian melodies. It had been converted and
fitted to the heavy rhythm of Earth's ancient Africa, and it seemed
suddenly to become a part of this jungle of Venus.

The woman stood in the doorway, and then she moved down the ladder, as
though it were one sliding motion. She remained there, her back against
the silver metal of the ship, swaying her hips, moving her shoulders.

"I was a dancer, you see, Mr. Caine. I worked in a very expensive
club in Habrill, on Mars. I was very popular and very good, and sweet
Charles took me away from it all, didn't you, Charles?"

Fairchild, Caine could see, was having trouble focusing his eyes, but
the rhythmic music was heavy in the air and it beat against the ears,
and Caine knew that the man was aware of what was happening.

The woman began moving easily toward Caine, her movement a practised
swinging motion of hips and shoulders. "This is what Charles took me
away from, Mr. Caine, by the gentle touch of gold," she said. "'Come
with me,' he said, and he fitted diamonds to my ears and rings to my
fingers. 'Let me take you away from the damned searching eyes of every
man on Mars. Let me hide you, so no one can see you or touch you, but
me, and I'll give you all I own.' Isn't that right, Charles?" she said,
looking at him with narrow gleaming eyes.

The man lifted his glass and slowly drained it. He let it fall to the
ground with a breaking crunch, while the woman kept time with the
rhythm, with her hips and her shoulders, slight swinging motions that
only intimated.

"Only now," the woman said, "poor Charles doesn't have anything more to
give, and so here I go again...."

She raised her hands over her head and cracked her palms together. Her
hips swung and her shoulders shook. She caught her fingers in her hair,
her teeth white and biting, while her whole body shivered. It was a
rippling gyration of muscle and pink skin, building, furious.

Fairchild pushed himself out of the chair. His eyes were wild and
vacant. "Don't ..." he said, and his words were meshed together so that
it was a hoarse sound, full of anguish.

The woman laughed, a wild laugh that blended with the music and the
frenzied movement of her body. She whirled and slapped her hands
together and her body quivered.

The man staggered a step forward. "Janet, don't, please...." He fell
forward, sprawling over the ground. Gradually, the woman ceased her
movement, while her laughter rang through the wet jungle.

       *       *       *       *       *

_The gray-caped figures hold motionless around the muddy silver orb.
A green head cocks. Another. The golden walls encase them, and only a
circular opening near a tip of a spire brings in dim light and a little
of the wispish outside vapor. Fingers disengage and a green extends
from a gray cape. The hand sweeps in a downward slice, splitting by
symbol, purity from evil. A second hand imitates. A third. A dozen.
Voices flute to the cloudy orb. A cat snarls. Minds probe._

       *       *       *       *       *

The light was dimming, and she was a dark curving figure, standing over
the crumpled figure of the man. The music pounded relentlessly. Caine
stood up.

"Each time I make one of these trips," he said, looking at the
motionless form of Fairchild, "I promise myself it'll be the last, and
I'm promising myself again, right now."

The woman stood silent, and there was just her smiling mouth and the
white teeth and the reddish hair. "But this one isn't over, yet, Mr.
Caine. We still have a long way to go." Her eyes danced.

"That's right, Mrs. Fairchild," Caine said, bending to lift the man.
"Unfortunately, that's right."

He picked the man up while the woman watched, and he carried him to the
ship. He climbed to the cabin, working against the surprising weight of
the smaller man. For his age, Fairchild was a very tough, sinewy man
who looked as though he had spent most of his life fighting through
strange and varied wilds, constantly in search of new adventures and
thrills.

Caine laid the man across a bunk built into the rear of the ship's
cabin. The tip end of the wide scar was visible now, showing above
Fairchild's open shirt, and the thin lines about the eyes and mouth
were like written entries in his face, telling of too much Scotch and
perhaps too much of the reddish-haired woman. All that he lacked, Caine
thought wryly, was the empty bank account to show the price he had paid
for the love of the devilish woman.

Caine straightened and walked back through the cabin, snapping off the
radio.

He jumped to the ground. The light was very dim now, and the woman was
only an outline. The screams of kiitz birds were in the air again, and
in the distance, the thrumming monotony of the falls.

"You can use the cabin with your husband, Mrs. Fairchild," Caine said
briskly. "I'll get some blankets and sleep out here."

"Aren't there animals?"

"Not around here," Caine said. "I'll make a fire. If you want something
to eat I'll get it out of the cabin for you."

"No, thank you, Mr. Caine," the woman said, sitting down in her chair.
"I'll just enjoy the rest of my drink, if you don't mind."

"It's up to you," Caine said shortly. He was very careful to keep his
eyes away from her. You handled a woman like that best, he knew, by
keeping your eyes away from her.

He gathered wood from beneath the wet outer layer of the jungle floor.
He bent to light the fire just as the darkness enveloped the clearing.
The flames flickered and licked upward, sending their shifting yellow
light into the surrounding foliage.

Caine straightened from the fire.

"Do you like my dance?" the woman asked, softly.

"I didn't see it for your husband, Mrs. Fairchild," Caine said, and he
returned to the ship where he got several blankets. He placed them near
the fire.

"He's not around now," the woman said.

Caine looked at her finally. "He is as far as I'm concerned."

"You're so noble, Mr. Caine."

"I'm not anything," Caine said. "I'm just a guide who gets paid for
taking people where they want to go. Nothing more, do you understand,
Mrs. Fairchild?"

"No," she said, smiling at him.

Caine walked to his chair and sat down. "We have a tough day ahead of
us, Mrs. Fairchild, and we'll need all the strength we have to get
through that stretch of jungle. This is a different jungle than you've
seen before. Venus breeds some terrible country, and where we're going
is that kind of country. I haven't been there myself, so I can't even
predict what it'll be like. But I've circled it in the ship and it's
thick and alive. I don't trust it. So you can stay up, if you like, and
I'll be glad to stay awake myself, but I'd advise some sleep right now."

Mrs. Fairchild stood up slowly, her fingers drifting over her waist.
"I'll tell you, Mr. Caine. You're not the kind of man I like to argue
with. I've had just enough liquor to feel perfectly agreeable to
anything, anyway. So I'll get ready for bed, but I'm sorry you didn't
enjoy my dance. Let's do this. You wait while I get ready, and then
we'll have one nightcap together, a sort of dancing nightcap. Are you
interested, Mr. Caine?"

Caine lit a cigarette slowly, watching the blaze of his lighter. He
snapped the lighter shut. "I'm interested in both you and your husband,
Mrs. Fairchild."

"To hell with my husband," she said, her teeth showing between her
lips. She lifted her glass and drank all that was in it. "Relax, Mr.
Caine," she said, walking toward the ship. "Enjoy yourself."

Caine noticed that the liquor had taken hold of the way she walked, so
that she swayed a little, but there was still the grace there and the
swing, and it was hard to disregard.

I hope she doesn't come out of there, Caine thought. I hope she just
falls asleep and leaves me alone, and that tomorrow goes very quickly
and smoothly.

       *       *       *       *       *

But when Caine had watched the flames lick at the settling night for a
few minutes and had finished his cigarette, he heard the sound again.
The sound of music, muffled by the silver body of the ship. Wilder now,
with heavier drums, seasoned into a more biting sound by the night and
the flickering flames. Caine was aware of the blood in his veins and
the pulse in his temples.

All at once, the door of the cabin was kicked open and the music rose
in the air. The woman stood in the doorway, her hands gripping the
silver frame tightly. She wore a black nightgown, made of shimmering
stuff that was as thin as the fine mist in the air. Her hair had been
let down and it fell over her shoulders and her back. Her feet were
bare and very white beneath the black gown.

She stood motionless, her fingers tight against the frame, as though
holding herself against the music. The melody disappeared then, and
there was only the drums, rolling, and finding a punctuation that
became all that existed in the night. The woman leaped from the doorway
and she touched the ground, wriggling. Her feet were wide-spaced and
her hands searched through her hair, lifting it from the nape of her
neck. She bent forward suddenly, so that her hair was a reddish swirl
against the light of the leaping flames.

She straightened slowly, one hand sliding her hair back, so that
Caine could see her eyes dancing with her body, and she began moving
toward him, shoulders swinging, hips pivoting. Caine kept his hands
tight against the arms of his chair, his eyes narrow. The woman was a
writhing movement beneath the black veil-like gown. She twisted and
whirled and finally, she stopped in front of Caine, chin high, one
hand still half-thrust through the soft thick hair. Her eyes glowed.

"Nightcap," she said, her voice breathless.

Caine shifted carefully in his chair. "I'm not thirsty," he said.

The woman's hand snapped from her hair, and the relaxed suppleness of
her body tightened.

"I remember a man," Caine said through his teeth, "who's a dozen yards
away, sleeping in the protection of alcohol, because a cheap burlesque
queen is drawing out his blood until he's damned near dead. I can see
through the pink skin, Mrs. Fairchild, and what I see makes me sick.
You don't interest me at all, and you never will because I don't like
the sight of hate and selfishness and just plain rottenness."

She struck him across the face with one hand and then the other. The
fury burned in her eyes and her body trembled with it. She struck him
again and again, and Caine's face bled where a ring ripped his skin.

He sat very still, his hands remaining against the chair arms. "You've
just lost yourself a boy, Mrs. Fairchild. Put your clothes on, we're
flying back to the Colony. You can find yourself somebody else for
this, because I've had enough."

He started to rise, but she put one hand against his chest, and the
fury was gone out of her eyes, and there were tears instead.

"Please," she said, and Caine could hear the tears going into her
voice. "I'm sorry. I'm awfully sorry. Let me talk to you first,
please." She knelt to the ground and watched Caine while thin tears ran
down her cheeks.

"About what, Mrs. Fairchild?" Caine said coldly.

"I don't know why I did what I did," she said, touching at the tears.
"Too much Scotch, I think. Only I'm still a dancer and it's in my
blood. It isn't cheap burlesque, Mr. Caine. It's something deep inside
me and I can't help it."

"Nice trait," Caine said, "for a man's wife."

"I had that coming. I've got a lot coming, only the resentment for his
drinking, the way he's tried to own me, keeps coming out and I want to
hurt him. I know it isn't right, but it's what I do and I want to stop
doing it. He's worried, and it comes out with what he says and what he
does, and so I fight him. He thinks if he doesn't find this gem, he's
going to lose me."

"Isn't he?" Caine asked, his eyes thin.

"No," she said quietly. "I'm frightened of him and I feel alone with
him. But I won't leave him."

"Like I told you," Caine said, "I'm just a hired man. What my customers
think or do between themselves is none of my business."

"You're not that cold," she said, looking into his eyes.

"I'm that cold."

She shook her head stubbornly. "Be kind to me. You can. For just this
one moment, when I'm not alone or afraid, when there's just this one
moment before tomorrow--when it starts all over again."

Caine didn't answer, but he relaxed in his chair slightly and leaned
back.

She smiled at him and it was a warm simple smile with all the hardness
and sarcasm erased. "Would you have one drink with me? One small drink
to seal the night up, so maybe you won't remember me so badly, so maybe
you'll think I've got some heart and human feelings?"

Caine waited, watching her shiny eyes. "One drink," he said.

She smiled and stood up, returning to the side of the ship where
Fairchild had set up his portable bar. She poured two glasses, and
while Caine watched her, he noticed that in her straight, motionless
posture, the animal litheness had disappeared. She was very simple--and
naive-looking, and when she returned, he saw that the tears were still
wet on her face.

She handed him a glass, and she held her own in the air. "A trite
toast--here's to two people who met in the Venus night ... briefly."

"Two people," Caine repeated, lifting his own glass. The Scotch burned
down his throat.

She kneeled again and smiled at him. Caine noticed then that the music
was still beating into the night air, and that the black gown was still
very thin. He turned his glass up again, to hurry through the drink.
Even in her simplicity and tears he didn't trust himself.

The Scotch seemed to take hold of his blood and he could feel it racing
in his veins.

He lifted the glass a third time, and the hand that held it seemed
suddenly detached from his own movement. A singing began in his head
and then disappeared, and when he looked at her, the smiling lips were
redder and the shining teeth were whiter. The music pulsated in his
head, seeming to beat against his brain.

"What...?" he began, and his voice was thick. He shook his head and
looked at his glass. It fell out of his hand.

"A little witch's potion," she said, rising. "Something from the
Martian cauldron. Quick and oh, so effective."

He fought the feeling that caught hold of him. His brain seemed to
deaden until there was only the drums inside his head, and his senses
became alive and burning. He could see her before him, and she began to
sway back and forth, her hands moving in front of her face. He caught
hold of the chair arms to keep his own hands from reaching out.

He tried to cling to reason, but his hands wanted to escape. The flames
of the fire flickered somewhere in the distance, and in front of him
the black-covered body began to move in rippling shivers. The moving
pink hands rose in the air, and there was a shimmer of concealed
muscles, dancing, dancing.

He clung to the chair, gritting his teeth, but the drums pounded at his
senses, over and over, and the lips smiled and the white teeth shone
and the pink body moved in time with the drums.

"Not yet?" he heard her say, somewhere far away.

And the body turned slowly, convoluting in a shimmering dance of thin
blackness.

Caine lost his grip on the chair, and he was moving his hands. He heard
the laughter, high in the air, stinging his ears and he couldn't stop
himself. He was listening to the laughter when his fingers touched
skin, and there was only blackness after that.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Minds examine. Judge. Decide. "Grith?" says a round voice. Golden bars
snap open. A black cat crouches. Green heads nod within their hoods.
The cat leaps, crouches again, and then begins to stalk. Lidless eyes
turn to the cold orb. Voices chant. "Grith?"_


                                  III

He awoke as a boot caught the side of his head. He rolled across the
ground, the pain exploding inside his head. The boot found him again.
Another time, above his eyes. He moaned, trying to make his muscles
work, but it was as though he were still caught in a nightmare.

"Filthy damned swine," he heard, and his eyes watched a fist come out
of the misty air to smash against his cheek. He rolled again, burying
his face against the ground, trying to hide, to protect himself until
he could find his senses and his coordination.

"You'll kill him." It was a woman's voice, saying this, a lilting
feminine voice that was very, very familiar. Caine tensed himself,
waiting for the next blow.

"Get up," a man said.

Caine felt the boot against his legs. He turned over slowly and pulled
himself to a sitting position. He shook his head, but the thick mist
that was in the morning air seemed to have gotten into his brain. His
arms and legs felt as though lead had been poured into his veins.

Slowly it came back to him. The woman. The Scotch. He searched the
fog-filled area in front of him. Fairchild, his mouth an ugly line,
watched him and in his hand was Caine's pistol. The woman was behind
Fairchild, still in the black gown, and Caine could see that it was
torn.

"I'd kill you right now," Fairchild said, his voice hoarse with rage,
"but I want that gem. Get up."

"Darling," the woman said to her husband, while her eyes danced at
Caine. "He's such a mess."

Caine tried to swallow and even that was difficult. Every part of
his body had been taken hold of by the drug that had been put into
his liquor, and each movement was a task he was certain he couldn't
complete. He raised a hand slowly to his face and his fingers came away
sticky.

"Get up!" Fairchild growled, his eyes vicious thin slits.

Caine got to his knees and fell flat again. He clutched at the ground,
waiting for the crushing boot. It came, and he tried again. He got
to his knees the second time and then, inch by inch, he stood up. For
a moment it seemed as though his head were floating away from his
shoulders, and he looked down at his body, thinking that what he saw
surely belonged to someone else, a limp, ragged body, cut and bruised
with no clothes. He was falling again.

Fairchild caught Caine's arm and jerked him upright. "I'll give you
two minutes to get your damned clothes on, Caine, and get behind the
controls of that ship."

He looked at Fairchild stupidly. The man shook him. Caine turned around
and searched for his clothes beside the dead fire. He staggered and
groped, and twice, blackness covered his eyes and he went to his knees.

Finally, he stood, weaving, clothed haphazardly, and he was vaguely
aware that blood was sliding down his chin, dripping onto his jacket.
He touched the blood with a finger and it didn't mean anything to him.

The man turned to his wife. "The same goes for you. Get into the cabin!"

"Charles," she pleaded. "He made me drink so _much_."

"Go on!" Fairchild said, waving the pistol.

She smiled crookedly and walked toward the ship. The mist lay over the
jungle so thickly that the ship, not more than ten or twelve yards
away, was barely visible. Caine heard the door of the cabin opening and
closing.

Fairchild pointed the gun at Caine's stomach again. "You'd better watch
every damned step you take," he said. "This gun is going to stay on you
until I get that Screece gem, and the only reason you're alive, you
bloody louse, is because I have to have it. Do you understand?"

Caine searched for his voice, and it came out thick and strained.
"Won't fly you...." He watched the man's face whiten, and the gun
trembled in Fairchild's hand. Then the gun was swinging through the air
and Caine watched it coming until it struck him above the eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Water dripped from his face and his chest, and he fought for air. His
brain was a singing maize of pain, and the numbness in his arms and
legs kept him riveted to the ground. He opened his eyes, finally, as he
felt himself being dragged across the clearing. The rungs of the ladder
leading to the ship's cabin were against him. He moved his head and his
teeth struck silver metal. His coordination was gone and he couldn't
tell what his movements were going to be.

"Up the steps," he heard Fairchild say behind him.

He lifted his hands, fitting them around the rungs of the ladder, and
he began to pull himself up. It was an inching effort. Blood got in his
eyes, and his head whirled into far-away spins that had nothing to do
with the movement of his body. He hung onto the ladder and climbed one
rung, then another. He teetered near the top, and Fairchild pushed him
into the cabin where he sprawled.

He could hear Fairchild coming up behind him, and the door slammed shut.

Caine rolled onto his back and looked up. She was standing over him in
fresh white shorts and blouse. Her hair now was very neat and groomed,
and her pink skin was radiant. She smiled at him, her teeth showing
very whitely. "You're a pretty thing, Mr. Caine."

He knew he should have felt the rage then, the instinctive fury for
what she had done to him. But the drug had left him with nothing but
enough reaction to try to fight for consciousness and strength.

"Clean him up," Fairchild said. "Fast. Then we're leaving."

The woman got soap and water from the rear of the cabin. She washed
Caine's face, her fingers cruel against the cuts and swellings. She
raked the cuts with stinging medicine, and Caine lay unmoving, trying
to let time feed him new strength. She stood up, finally, looking at
her husband.

"All right," Fairchild said. "Let's go, Caine."

Caine looked at the man's face, at the set of his mouth. He looked at
the gun and then at the man's boots. He pulled himself up and staggered
into the seat behind the controls. His movements on the controls were
slow and rough. He looked at Fairchild once, as the jets fired into
the fog-ladened air. "Can't fly this way. No balance, coordination.
Visibility's rotten, I...."

The man moved the pistol into Caine's side.

Caine faced the instrument panel, trying to keep from weaving. He moved
his hands and felt the ship rising. He tried to keep the rise steady
and gradual, but his hands jerked. The ship tipped and swung toward the
side of the clearing. Thick vine-trees came out of the fog, and Caine
forced the ship straight up, the jets roaring. The silver jetcopter
swung back and forth, climbing, slipping, dropping. He couldn't move
the controls properly.

The sound of the waterfall was in their ears then, and Caine jambed
the ship to the opposite side. They touched the tops of the trees, and
finally he brought it up enough to be over the jungle and the rocks.

Instinct gave Caine vague direction, and he kept his altitude
exaggerated to insure against his faulty senses.

"Some say the Screece gem is a diamond," the woman said, dreamily.
"Some say it's an emerald. Some say it's a ruby. What do you say it is,
Charles?"

Fairchild sat motionless, silent, in the seat beside Caine. He still
held the pistol so that the muzzle pointed into Caine's side.

"Don't try anything, Caine," he said. "I'll smash us all to hell before
I'll give up."

Caine flew the ship.

"It's romantic, isn't it?" the woman said, from behind Caine. "The most
valuable gem in the world, deep in the Venusian jungle, protected by
the long, long cats, and my sweet Charles is going to get it for me.
Bless you, Charles. You are an extraordinary husband. I hope the cats
don't get you."

Caine heard the words, but his brain was too slow and thick with
the drug to understand the sharpness of her words. He only moved
the controls, feeling the gun Fairchild held against him. In this
condition, he knew that if he tried to fool Fairchild, the man--his
nerves tightened the way they were--would not hesitate to pump the
pistol into Caine's body.

Caine worked his fingers numbly. If only he could find his control, his
response....

They were approaching the area where Caine thought the temple should
be. "Somewhere," he said, and his tongue was clumsy as he tried to
speak. "Somewhere."

       *       *       *       *       *

The mist was like layers of soft tissue around the ship. The visibility
was not much more than the length of the wings. He eased the ship down,
slowly, foot by foot. A golden pike-shaped object appeared beside the
right wing. Caine brought the ship up.

He grinned, a sly sudden grin. "Temple," he said foolishly. "Couldn't
have hit it closer sober." He thought about the cleverness of what
he had just said, laughing over it inside, noticing with a queer
detachment how his words came out as though he had been drinking. The
damned drug, he thought, but the laughter came up through him and it
echoed through the cabin.

Caine felt the gun go hard against his side, the steel bruising his
ribs. His laughter was cut short, as though a gag had been slammed
across his mouth. "Can't help ..." he began.

But Fairchild's face was close to his own. "I'll make you laugh,
Caine," the man whispered furiously. "I'll make you laugh over
what happened. You think about that, eh? You think about that, you
bloody...."

Vaguely, Caine knew the pistol had been pulled away from his ribs and
was whipping toward his arm. He tried to shift out of its way, but he
caught it squarely. The pain paralyzed him and even the sound of his
cry was caught by his teeth snapping together. The ship wavered and
slid downward.

"You stupid fool!" the woman screamed at her husband.

Caine felt himself sliding out of his seat, the pain throbbing. He
caught himself and reached for the controls with his good hand. But
he only half-balanced the ship before he saw the tip of a vine-tree.
He cut the jets. The trees were all around them, enveloping them. He
listened to the snap of the wings, heard distantly the splinter of
glass, then nothing.

He was looking at the shape of his arm, when he found his vision again.
It was bent peculiarly.

Whose crazy damned arm is that? he thought.

Somehow his brain wanted him to laugh, to slap the comic twisted arm,
lying in front of his eyes. The laughter was in his mouth and through
his teeth and he raised his good hand.

"Oh, Lord," he said, suddenly sober and feeling the blinding pain. He
caught his good hand around a broken metal shaft, and the pain drew
tears to his eyes.

I think I'll just go to sleep and die right now, he thought, wondering
vaguely where his will and his strength had gone. Did they bleed out?
he thought. Did they fall out when the man struck him? Did the woman
draw them out last night, like a vampire draws out blood?

Good night, he thought, dimly, dropping his hand from the shaft.
Good-by. He closed his eyes.

He was screaming, he knew, and somewhere he heard a man's voice say,
"The gauze. The gauze." It was a grating sound, like a metal wheel
turning over gravel. He opened his eyes, and Fairchild was wrapping
the gauze around his broken arm, splinted from a part of the cabin
panelling.

Fairchild looked at him. There was a thick growth of gray whiskers,
stubbling the man's chin and cheeks, Caine noticed, and the man's eyes
were not sad any more. They appeared to burn, like his wife's. He
grinned at Caine and it was a humorless grin, his teeth set tightly
together. "You're lucky, Caine," he said. "I set it instead of cutting
it off."

Caine watched the grinning stubbled face. He felt a shudder trembling
through his body, and the sweat on his face turned cold. I'm not Nic
Caine, he thought. Surely not. I'm just a frightened, chilled man with
no guts or reason. I am a rubber puppet, that's who I am. Pull the
strings, Mr. Puppet Master.

"Get up," said Fairchild.

"That's right," Caine mumbled, smiling crazily.

He pushed himself up and stood swaying in the cabin of the broken ship.
He looked around, his eyes suddenly fierce. "Is this twisted wreck my
pretty silver ship?" he asked loudly. "Oh, no!" he said, and tried to
kick at a splintered panel.

He felt himself pitching forward, and he caught out his good hand,
steadying himself. The drug, the pain, he thought deep in his brain, my
damned arm.

But he was like two people, watching each other, shifting back and
forth from one identity to another. Rational, irrational, laughing,
crying.

He looked at the woman. She was huddling near the rear of the cabin.
Blood spilled in a thin line down the side of her face from a cut above
her eyes. "We'll never get out," she said. Her voice was a high-pitched
sound with no change of tone in it. "We'll never get out."

"Why don't you dance for us?" Caine said, blinking with the brightness
of his suggestion.

"Move, Caine," the man said, prodding Caine's back. "She'll dance when
I give her the gem."

Caine crawled slowly out of the cabin. The undercarriage had been
smashed, and the cabin was level with the ground. It was like going
into a sea of vapor when he got out of the ship.

How long? he thought, looking at his splintered arm. How long would
the drug hang onto his brain? This was not himself. This was a weak
spinning scarecrow who was drunk on dope.

Then the pain smashed into his awareness. It disappeared as suddenly.
He was in agony, then there was only the foolish whirling of his brain.
He turned slowly, like a limp mannequin, searching the blankness of the
mist.

"Where am I?" he said aloud.

"About one mile from Heaven," said Fairchild behind him, holding now
a rifle from Caine's cabin rack. "Janet?" the man said to the cabin.
"Take one of those damn rifles. Mr. Caine is going to lead us to his
happy end. The gem first," he said to Caine. "Then you. I'll let you
touch it before you die."

The woman came out of the cabin, a rifle in her hands. She pointed
it at Fairchild. "We'll never get out of here," she repeated, in her
sing-song tone.

"Not without me," Fairchild said quietly, looking at the pointed rifle.
He turned his back to her.

The woman's face had lost its pink radiance, and it was white except
where the blood trickled.

"Let's go, Caine," Fairchild said.

"I don't know where to go," Caine said stupidly.

"Up," Fairchild said. "Just lead the way up. I don't need you to know
where the temple is now. You got us much closer than we'd planned,
you know. You're just bait now, Caine. Bait for the cats. Remember the
cats?"

"I won't go through that," the woman said, staring at the mist around
them.

"All right," Fairchild said. "Stay here and meet the cats alone. I'll
bring the gem back to you, if there's anything left of you. But, by
heck, you're going to get it, do you hear me?" He faced her again.
"You're going to get that gem if I have to kill seventeen cats, and
Caine, and even you. Dead or alive, you're going to get it, do you
hear?"

The woman was pale, sick-looking, and Caine tried to remember how she
had looked the night before. It was too much effort.

"Move," said the man, prodding Caine. "Move, Mr. Caine."


                                  IV

Caine moved, trying to find some hate to use on himself for letting
the sight of the rifle in the man's hands frighten him the way it did.
But there was only a dull craziness within him, where the strength
and nerve used to be. It was as though his steel had been melted and
drained out of him by the drug.

I'm like a fish, he thought, pushing through the foliage, a fish with
a broken fin. Do cats like fish with broken fins? he wondered. And the
three of them were moving in a slow silent line through the Venusian
wilds.

The sounds were in Caine's brain like a dozen records being played in
a large echoing room. Teewh birds pointed their yellow beaks and came
screaming at his head. The kiitz birds fluttered wildly out of the
thickets, their frightened sound like the rake of giant fingernails
across smooth slate.

But there were other things in this part of the jungle. Soft,
gelatinous phules, the size of a man's hand, hung to the vine-trees,
and when Caine passed them they shifted off the trees to his skin and
began their search for juices out of his own body. He swept them away,
one at a time, and more found him.

"I have nothing left in my veins for you," he said to one of them
sticking to his waist. "Maybe warm tea?"

Fairchild touched the rifle against his back, and Caine pushed the
phule away.

A snake-like trill wriggled in front of him, its purple and black skin
glistening as though it had been drawn through oil. It was about four
feet long and as thick as a heavy rope. Its never-closing eyes stared
at Caine. "Hello, friend," Caine said, reaching out his good arm. The
trill slid away.

That's what I really am like, he decided, wondering when the pain would
come shattering into him again. I am like the trill. I ought to lie
down on the ground and start wriggling, instead of walking.

The pain found him then, and his brain was cleared briefly of the veil
of the drug. The pain lasted longer this time. Drug wearing off, he
thought, only now I don't want it to. And then he thought of the cats;
the terrible cats, the horrible cats....

His brain spun and the veil dropped. What was I thinking about? he said
to himself. Cats? Was it the cats? Why? Cats are pretty, especially
grith cats. They are black, like the spots on a leopard. And what makes
me think of a leopard? I'll ask the man behind me, he thought, and
stopped.

"Go on, Caine," Fairchild whispered. "Go on, damn you."

Leopards? Leopards? Caine asked himself, and he pushed on through the
growth, feeling the ground rising more steeply.

Razor plants licked at his skin, until his flesh was slit finely in a
dozen places. The gauze around his arm became a fuzzy mass, like rags.
If I see a cat, Caine promised himself, I'll take a splint off my arm
and hit him over the head with it.

The mist hung around them like a hungry shroud, eager to cloak
everything on the planet with its muggy wetness. Then the growth
lessened a bit, and Caine saw bare rock here and there. It was easier
to move and he did not jar his arm as much, but somewhere in his brain
an old knowledge told him that this would be certain grith territory,
and every step now was a step closer to the black face with the orange
eyes and sharp teeth.

Caine felt himself growing weaker, and each motion was a building
effort. The heat had risen, but there was no sweat on his face now,
only a burning dryness. His head seemed to start its floating again,
and he thought for a moment that it might drift up over the trees,
like a balloon.

The idea was very funny to him, and laughter grew inside of him. He
grinned, feeling his stomach move with it, until suddenly he was
freezing his movement, laughing into the mist-filled air, staring
straight into the orange eyes of a grith cat.

The laughter stopped in his mouth. He blinked once. The cat didn't
move. Fairchild and the woman, Caine knew, had halted behind him. The
cat's eyes shown through the mist like fiery globes. I'll pet him,
Caine thought with great detachment, right on his black head, and then
he'll go away.

The cat was motionless.

Caine knelt slowly, looking straight into the cat's eyes. It was about
ten yards away.

Caine turned to look at Fairchild. The man was on one knee, the rifle
pointing at the cat's head. The woman waited behind him, half-crouched,
holding her rifle tight against her side.

Caine looked back to the cat, moving his head slowly. He could see the
great swishing tail, moving back and forth, back and forth.

Why doesn't the man shoot? Caine asked himself. Why is he waiting this
way?

Time halted.

Caine edged his look back to Fairchild. You crazy fool, he thought. You
have the rifle in your hands, you....

And then he saw the sweat dripping from the man's face, the staring
eyes, drained of their focus by fear. The man's body was trembling, and
Caine thought: he's going to drop the rifle out of his hands, he's....

       *       *       *       *       *

The woman screamed. "Kill him! Kill him--" The rifle exploded in her
hands and bullets whined through the air. Caine felt a hot sting in his
shoulder. And the cat was a roaring, crazed thing that swept through
the air, a flash of shining blackness.

The air came apart with the sound of the rifle and the screams of the
woman and the roaring of the cat. Caine waited, as though this were a
dream he was watching. The cat had leaped straight for the woman, and
she was tangled with the black and white claws now, so that Caine saw
only a rolling, screaming mass.

Then there was no more sound from the woman, just a broken, bleeding
body, and the cat was crouching again, the black coat stippled with
red, the orange eyes wild.

Caine blinked, realizing that Fairchild was sprawled beside him, a
bullet through his head, his hands just touching his unfired rifle.

I can't do it, Caine thought, looking at the rifle. Too slow. I'll have
those claws in me before I can even touch it.

The cat hugged closer to the ground, its muscles bunching.

I'll try, Caine thought, and his hand was moving toward the rifle,
slowly, like a floating feather, it seemed. Jump, he said silently to
the cat. I can't do it.

"Grith?" sounded a flute-like voice.

The cat was motionless.

"Grith?"

The cat rose slowly and backed, tail swishing. Green hands slapped
together, and the cat turned and disappeared.

Caine placed his palms flat against the ground, propping himself, and
watched the approaching figures. The mist seemed to be disappearing,
and he could see more clearly the green skin and the large, unblinking
eyes that looked out solemnly from beneath the hoods of the gray capes.

_Priests?_ Caine wondered. _From the temple?_ I didn't know there were
Venusians here, he said to himself, and although it was a very slight
disclosure, as though he had suddenly learned that there were more men
on Venus than women, he was astounded and impressed with it. "Well," he
said, grinning up at them as they stopped beside him. "Well, well."

He got to his knees and, still smiling, looked at his arm where the
gauze had come loose. He shook his head in wonderment. He narrowed his
eyes and examined the blood trickling from the surface wound in his
shoulder. "Well, well," he repeated, and stood up.

The woman was a mangled shape on the wet ground, and the man lay very
still. Caine looked from one to the other. "Yes, yes," he said, aloud.

He turned to the gray-caped Venusians and found the somber eyes
watching him, in their kindly way. One of them reached out and touched
Caine's shoulder above the broken arm. Others moved to the bodies of
the man and woman and bent over them, making floating motions with
their delicate green hands.

_Praying?_ Caine wondered, watching these motions. He shrugged. He
couldn't hold a thought very long.

The mist was evaporating quickly. Caine, looking up, thought he could
see a pointed outline. Then suddenly--high above--there was the golden
temple, a shimmer of towering spires of yellow beauty, splashed over by
brilliant sunshine.

Caine turned his face up to a strange sun, a blinding sun that sent its
bright life down through the leaves. And Caine was aware that the caped
figures were kneeling all around, praying in a jumble of voices, their
hands stretching up to the infrequent visitor of light.

What are they saying? Caine asked, smiling queerly. What is it they're
saying? Screece? The Sun? The most valuable gem on Venus? Is that what
they worship in the golden temple? Caine looked at the man and then at
the woman. Is that what they had come from Earth and from Mars to find?
The Sun? He felt the laughter starting in him again, as though it were
someone else laughing. But his mouth widened and his teeth glistened in
the sunlight, and he laughed long pealing laughter.

"Here it is," he said, staggering to the side of the man's body.
"Here's your gem. Do you see it, Fairchild?" He pointed to the sky.
"Give it to her," he said, laughing through his words. "No? I'll give
it to her for you then. How's that?" He turned and moved slowly to the
woman, stumbling. "Here," he said to the woman's staring eyes. "Here it
is, you see?"

He looked at her face, shadowed by a large leaf of a vine-tree. He
reached up and jerked the leaf away so that the sunlight fell full on
her white face. "There! Take it! From Charles, to you, through me.
Isn't it beautiful, so big, so brilliant, so...." The laughter was
getting in the way of his words and he could feel tears going down his
face.

Pale green hands were holding him so that he wouldn't fall. And they
were moving him away toward the temple. Caine looked at the large
kindly eyes around him, feeling the hands guiding him. He couldn't stop
laughing, only he wished to God he could, because it made the pain
worse. And he couldn't take much more pain.

The lips of one of the green faces moved. "Wress?" said the voice, the
word pronounced with difficulty.

"Rest?" Caine said, between spasms of laughter that he was quite
certain now was crying, instead. "Yes, yes," he said, trying to wipe at
his tears. "Oh, yes. Rest...."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Pale green hands extend again, palms down, and make sweeping downward
motions, destroying evil. They are cupped then and raised, slowly, as
though lifting purity to the top of the golden spires and beyond, where
a bright sun burns. Feet step soundlessly and figures kneel, circling
about a fist-sized orb. "Screece," says a flute-like voice. "Screece,"
says another. "Screece," say a dozen voices. Hands motion and the
silver globe is no longer dull and cloudy, but filled with pure shining
sunlight, so that it glitters like a thousand diamonds. Lips move
silently. A cat whimpers somewhere, then sleeps. Silence._

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WHERE THE GODS DECIDE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
