ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Me, Myself and I, by Kenneth Putnam

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Me, Myself and I

Author: Kenneth Putnam

Release Date: January 21, 2021 [eBook #64354]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ME, MYSELF AND I ***




                           ME, MYSELF AND I

                           By KENNETH PUTNAM

                  Never before in history had such an
               amazing, baffling and faintly horrifying
                thing happened to anyone as happened to
            Galahad McCarthy ... but--whaddyamean, history?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"Don't you think you might look up from that comic book long enough
to get interested in a last minute briefing on the greatest adventure
undertaken by man? After all, it's your noodle neck that's going to be
risked." Professor Ruddle throbbed his annoyance clear up to his thin
white hair.

McCarthy shifted his quid and pursed his lips. He stared dreamily at an
enameled wash-basin fifteen feet from the huge, box-like coil of wire
and transparencies on which the professor had been working. Suddenly, a
long brown stream leaped from his mouth and struck a brass faucet with
a loud _ping_.

The professor jumped. McCarthy smiled.

"Name ain't Noodleneck," he drawled. "Gooseneck. Gooseneck McCarthy,
known and respected in every hobo jungle in the country, including here
in North Carolina. And looky, bub, all I wanted was a cup of coffee and
a pair of sinkers. Time machine's your notion."

"Doesn't it mean anything that you will shortly be one hundred and ten
million years in the past, a past in which no recognizable ancestors of
man existed? That your opportunities to--"

"Nawp!"

Blathersham University's greatest physicist grimaced disgustedly. He
stared through thick lenses at the stringy, wind-hardened derelict whom
he was shortly going to trust with his life's work. A granite-like head
set on a remarkably long, thin neck; a body whose limbs were equally
extended; clothes limited to a faded khaki turtleneck sweater, patched
brown corduroy pants and a worn-out pair of heavy brogans. He sighed.

"And the fate of human knowledge and progress depends on you! When you
wandered up the mountain to my shack two days ago, you were broke and
hungry. You didn't have a dime--"

"Had a dime. Only it was lead."

"All right. All right. So you had a lead dime. I took you in, gave you
a good hot meal and offered to pay you one hundred dollars to take my
time machine on its maiden voyage. Don't you think--"

_Ping!_ This time it was the hot water faucet.

"--that the very least you could do," the little physicist's voice was
rising hysterically, "the very least would be to pay enough attention
to the facts I make available to insure that the experiment will be a
success? Do you realize what fantastic disruption you might cause in
the time stream by one careless slip?"

McCarthy rose suddenly and the brightly-colored comic magazine slid to
the floor in a litter of coils, gauges and paper covered with formulae.
He advanced toward the professor whom he topped by at least a foot. His
employer gripped a wrench nervously.

"Now, Mister Professor Ruddle," he said with gentle emphasis, "if'n
you don't think I know enough, why don't you go yourself, huh?"

The little man smiled at him placatingly. "Now don't get stubborn
again, Swan-neck--"

"Gooseneck. Gooseneck McCarthy."

"You can be the most irascible person I've ever met. More stubborn
than Professor Dudderel for that matter. And he's that short-sighted
mathematician back at Blathersham who insisted in spite of irrefutable
evidence that a time machine would not work. Even when I showed him
quartzine and demonstrated its peculiar time-dissolving properties, he
wasn't convinced. The university refused to grant an appropriation for
my research and I had to come out here in North Carolina. On my own
time and money, too." He brooded angrily on unreasonable mathematicians
and parsimonious trustees.

"Still ain't answered my question."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ruddle looked up. He blushed a little under the fine wild tendrils of
white hair. "Well, it's just that I'm rather valuable to society what
with my paper on intrareversible positrons still uncompleted. Whereas
everything points to the machine being a huge success, it's conceivable
that Dudderel considered some point which I've--er, overlooked."

"Meaning there's a chance I might not come back?"

"Uh--well, something like that. No danger, you understand. I've gone
over the formulae again and again and they are foolproof. It's just
barely possible that some minor error, some cube root that wasn't
brought out to the farthest decimal--"

The tramp put his hands in his pockets. "If'n that's so," he announced,
"I want that check before I leave. Not taking any chances on something
going wrong and you not paying me."

Professor Ruddle gulped. "Sure, Rubberneck," he said. "Sure."

"Gooseneck. How many times--Only make it out for my real first name.
It's--" the tramp's voice dropped to a whisper--"It's _Galahad_."

The physicist added a final scribble to the green paper rectangle,
ripped it out and handed it to McCarthy. Pay to the order of Galahad
McCarthy one hundred dollars and 00 cents. On the Beet and Tobacco
Exchange Bank of North Carolina.

Ruddle watched while the check was carefully placed in the outer breast
pocket of the ancient sweater. He picked up an expensive miniature
camera and hung its carrying strap around his employee's neck. "Now,
this is fully loaded. You sure you can operate the shutter? All you
do--"

"I know all right. Fooled around with these doohickeys before. Been
playing with this 'un for two days. You want me to step out of the
machine, take you a couple of snaps of the scenery--and move a rock."

"And nothing else! Remember, you're going back a hundred and ten
million years and any action on your part might have an incalculable
effect on the present. You might wipe out the whole human race by
stepping on one furry little animal who was its ancestor. I think that
moving a rock slightly will be a good first innocuous experiment, but
be careful!"

They moved toward the great transparent housing at the end of the
laboratory. Through its foot-thick walls, the red, black and silver
equipment in one corner shone hazily. An enormous lever protruded from
the maze of wiring like a metallic forefinger.

"You should arrive in the Cretaceous Period, the middle period of the
age of reptiles. Most of North America was under water, but geological
investigation shows an island on this spot."

"You been over this sixteen times. Just show me what dingus to pull and
let me go."

Ruddle executed a little dance that a student of modern ballet might
have called "Man with High Blood Pressure about to Blow his Top."

"Dingus!" he screeched. "You don't pull any dingus! You gently
depress--gently, you hear!--the chronotransit, that large black lever,
thus sliding the quartzine door shut and starting the machine. When you
arrive you lift it--again gently--and the door will open. The machine
is set to go back a given number of years, so that fortunately you have
no thinking to do."

McCarthy stared down at him easily. "You make a lot of cracks for a
little guy. I'll bet you're scared stiff of your wife."

"I'm not married," Ruddle told him shortly. "I don't believe in the
institution." He remembered. "Who was talking about marriage? At
a time like this.... When I think of allowing a stubborn, stupid
character like yourself to run loose with a device having the immense
potentialities of a time machine--Of course, I'm far too valuable to be
risked in the first jerry-built model."

"Yeah," McCarthy nodded. "Ain't it the truth." He patted the check
protruding from his sweater pocket and leaped up into the machine. "I'm
not."

He depressed the chronotransit lever--gently.

The door slid shut on Professor Ruddle's frantic last word, "Goodbye,
Turtleneck, and be _careful_, please!"

"Gooseneck," McCarthy automatically corrected. The machine seemed to
jerk. He had a last, distorted glimpse of Ruddle's shaggy white head
through the quartzine walls. The professor, alarm and doubt mixed on
his face, seemed to be praying.

       *       *       *       *       *

Incredibly bright sunlight blazed through thick bluish clouds. The time
machine rested on the waterline of a beach to whose edge the lushest
jungle ever had rushed--and stopped abruptly. The semi-transparent
walls enabled him to see enormous green masses of horsetails and
convoluted ivy, giant ferns and luxuriant palms, steaming slightly,
rich and ominous with life.

"Lift the dingus _gently_," McCarthy murmured to himself.

He stepped through the open doors into an ankle-depth of water. The
tide was evidently in and white-flecked water gurgled around the base
of the squat edifice that had brought him. Well, Ruddle had said this
was going to be an island.

"Reckon I'm lucky he didn't build his laboratory shack fifty or sixty
feet further down the mountain!"

He sloshed ashore, avoiding a little school of dun-colored sponges.
The professor might like a picture of them, he decided. He adjusted
the speed of the lens and focused it on the sponges. Then a couple of
pictures of the sea and the jungle.

Huge, leathery wings beat over a spot two miles in from the edge of
the luxuriant vegetation. McCarthy recognized the awesome, bat-like
creature from drawings the professor had shown him. A Pterodactyl, the
reptilian version of bird life.

The tramp snapped a hasty photograph and backed nervously toward the
time machine. He didn't like the looks of that long pointed beak, so
ferociously armed with jagged teeth.

Some living thing moved in the jungle under the Pterodactyl. It
plummeted down like a fallen angel, jaws agape and slavering.

McCarthy made certain that it was being kept busy, then moved rapidly
up the beach. Near the edge of the jungle, he had observed a round
reddish rock. It would do.

The rock was heavier to budge than he had thought. He strained against
it, cursing and perspiring under the hot sun. His feet sank into the
clinging loam.

Abruptly the rock tore loose. With a sucking sound it came out of the
loam and rolled over on its side. It left a moist, round hole out of
which a centipede fully as long as his arm scuttled away into the
underbrush. A nauseous stink arose from the spot where the centipede
had lain. McCarthy decided he didn't like this place.

Might as well head back.

Before he depressed the lever, the tramp took one last look at the red
rock, the underside somewhat darker than the rest. A hundred bucks
worth of tilt.

"So this is what work is like," he soliloquized. "Maybe I been missing
out on something!"

       *       *       *       *       *

After the rich sunlight of the Cretaceous, the laboratory seemed
smaller than he remembered it. The professor came up to him
breathlessly as he stepped from the time machine.

"How did it go?" he demanded eagerly.

McCarthy stared down at the top of the old man's head. "Everthin'
O.K.," he replied slowly. "Hey, Professor Ruddle, what for did you
go and shave your head? There wasn't much of it, but that white hair
looked sorta distinguished."

"Hair? Shave? I've been completely bald for years. Lost my hair long
before it turned white. And my name is Guggles, not Ruddle--_Guggles_:
try and remember that for a while. Now let me see the camera."

As he slipped the carrying strap over his head and handed the
instrument over, the tramp pursed his lips. "Coulda _sworn_ that you
had a little patch of white up there. Coulda sworn. Sorry about the
name, prof; we never seem to be able to get together on those things."

The professor grunted and started for the darkroom with the camera.
Halfway there, he stopped and almost cringed as a huge female form
stepped through the far doorway.

"Aloysius!" came a voice that approximated a corkscrew to the ear.
"Aloysius! I told you yesterday that if that tramp wasn't out of my
house in twenty-four hours, experiment or not, you'd hear from me.
Aloysius! You have exactly thirty-seven minutes!"

"Y-yes, dear," Professor Guggles whispered at her broad retreating
back. "We-we're almost finished."

"Who's that?" McCarthy demanded the moment she had left.

"My wife, of course. You must remember her--she made your breakfast
when you arrived."

"Didn't make my breakfast. Made my own breakfast. And you said you
weren't married!"

"Now you're being silly, Mr. Gallagher. I've been married for
twenty-five years and I know how futile it is to deny it. I couldn't
have said any such thing."

"Name's not Gallagher--it's McCarthy, Gooseneck McCarthy," the tramp
told him querulously. "What's happened here? You can't even remember
my last name now, let alone my first, you change your own name, you
shave your head, you get married in a hurry and--and you try 'n tell me
that I let some female woman cook my breakfast when I can rassle up a
better-tastin', better-eatin'--"

"Hold it!" The little man had approached and was plucking at his sleeve
eagerly. "Hold it, Mr. Gallagher or Gooseneck or whatever your name is.
Suppose you tell me exactly what you consider this place to have been
like before you left."

Gooseneck told him. "And that thingumajig was layin' _on_ that
whatchamacallit instead of under it," he finished lamely.

The professor thought. "And all you did--when you went back into the
past--was to move a rock?"

"That's all. One hell of a big centipede jumped out, but I didn't touch
it. Just moved the rock and headed back like you said."

"Yes, of course. H'mmm. That may have been it. The centipede jumping
out of the rock may have altered subsequent events sufficiently to make
me a married man instead of a blissful single one, to have changed my
name from Ruddle to Guggles. Or the rock itself. Such an intrinsically
simple act as moving the rock must have had much larger consequences
than I had imagined. Just think, if that rock had not been moved, I
might not be married! Gallagher--"

"McCarthy," the tramp corrected resignedly.

"Whatever you call yourself--listen to me. You're going back in the
time machine and shift that rock back to its original position. Once
that's done--"

"If I go back again, I get another hundred."

"How can you talk of money at a time like this?"

"What's the difference between this and any other time?"

"Why, here I am married, my work interrupted and you chatter about--Oh,
all right. Here's the money." The professor tore his checkbook out and
hastily scribbled on a blank. "Here you are. Satisfied?"

McCarthy puzzled over the check. "This isn't like t'other. This is on a
different bank--The Cotton Growers Exchange."

"That makes no important difference," the professor told him hastily,
bundling him into the time machine. "It's a check, isn't it? Just as
good, believe me, just as good."

As the little man fiddled with dials and adjusted switches, he called
over his shoulder. "Remember, get that rock as close to its original
position as you can. And touch nothing else, do nothing else."

"I know. I know. Hey, prof, how come I remember all these changes and
you don't, with all your science and all?"

"Simple," the professor told him, toddling briskly out of the machine.
"By being in the past and the time machine while these temporal
adjustments to your act made themselves felt, you were in a sense
insulated against them, just as a pilot suffers no direct, personal
damage from the bomb his plane releases over a city. Now, I've set
the machine to return to approximately the same moment as before.
Unfortunately, my chronotransit calibrations can never be sufficiently
exact--Do you remember how to operate the apparatus? If you don't--"

McCarthy sighed and depressed the lever, shutting the door on the
professor's flowing explanations and perspiring bald head.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was back by the pounding surf off the little island. He paused for
a moment, before opening the door as he caught sight of a strange
transparent object just a little further up the beach. Another time
machine--and exactly like his!

"Oh, well. The professor will explain it!"

He started up the beach toward the rock. Then he stopped again--a
dead-stop this time.

The rock lay ahead, as he remembered it before the shifting. But there
was a man straining at it, _a tall, thin man in a turtleneck sweater
and brown, corduroy pants_.

McCarthy got his flapping jaw back under control. "Hey! Hey, you at the
rock! Don't move it. It's not supposed to be moved!" He hurried over.

The stranger turned. He had the ugliest face McCarthy remembered having
seen on a human being; his neck was ridiculously long and thin. He
examined McCarthy slowly. He reached into his pocket and came out with
a soiled package. He bit off a chaw of tobacco.

McCarthy reached into his pocket and came up with an identically soiled
mass of tobacco. He also took a bite. They chewed and stared at each
other. Then they spat, simultaneously.

"What do you mean this rock ain't supposed to be moved? Professor
Ruddle told me to move it."

"Well, Professor Ruddle told me _not_ to move it. _And_ Professor
Guggles," McCarthy added as a triumphant clincher.

The other considered him for a moment, his jaw working like a
peculiar cam. His eyes traveled up McCarthy's spare body. Then he spat
contemptuously and turned to the rock. He grunted against it.

McCarthy sighed and put a hand on his shoulder. He spun him around.
"What for you have to go and act so stubborn, fella? Now I'll have to
lick you."

Without changing his vacant expression to one of the slightest
hostility, the stranger aimed a prodigious kick at his groin. McCarthy
dodged easily. That was an old hobo trick! He chopped out rapidly
against the man's face. The stranger ducked, moved away and came back
fighting.

This was a perfect spot for the famous McCarthy one-two. McCarthy
feinted with his left, seemingly concentrating all his power at the
other's middle. He noticed that his opponent was also making some
awkward gesture with his left. Then he came up out of nowhere with a
terrific right uppercut.

WHAM!

Right on the--

--on the button. McCarthy sat up and shook his head clear of bright
little lights and happy hums. He had connected, but--

So had the other guy!

He sat several feet from McCarthy, looking dazed and sad. "You are the
stubbornest cuss I ever saw! Where did you learn my punch?"

"_Your_ punch!" They rose, glowering at each other. "Listen, bub, that
there is my _own_ Sunday punch, copyrighted, patented and incorporated!
But this ain't gettin' us nowhere."

"No, it ain't. What do we do now? I don't care if I have to fight you
for the next million years, but I was paid to move that rock and I'm
goin' to move it."

McCarthy shifted the quid of tobacco. "Looky here. You've been paid
to move that rock by Professor Ruddle or Guggles or whatever he is by
now. If I go back and get a note from him saying you're not to move
that rock and you can keep the check anyways, will you promise to squat
still until I get back?"

The stranger chewed and spat, chewed and spat. McCarthy marveled at
their perfect synchronization. They both spat the same distance,
too. He wasn't such a bad guy, if only he wouldn't be so stubborn!
Strange--he was wearing a camera like the one old Ruddle had taken
from him.

"O.K. You go back and get the note. I'll wait here." The stranger
dropped to the ground and stretched out.

McCarthy turned and hurried back to the time machine before he could
change his mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was pleased to notice as he stepped down into the laboratory again,
that the professor had rewon his gentle patch of white hair.

"Saaay, this is gettin' real complicated. How'd you make out with the
wife?"

"Wife? What wife?"

"The wife. The battle-axe. The ball and chain. The steady skirt,"
McCarthy clarified.

"I'm not married. I told you I considered it a barbarous custom
entirely unworthy of a truly civilized man. Now stop babbling and give
me that camera."

"But," McCarthy felt his way very carefully, "but, don't you remember
takin' the camera from me, Professor Ruddle?"

"Not Ruddle--Roodles, _Roodles_. _Oo_ as is Gooseface. And how could
I have taken the camera from you when you've just returned? You're
dithering, McCarney--I don't like ditherers. Stop it!"

McCarthy shook his head, forbearing to correct the mispronunciation
of his name. He began to feel a vague, gnawing wish that he had never
started this combination merry-go-round and slap-happy fun-house.

"Look, prof, sit down." He spread a great hand against the little man's
chest, forcing him into a chair. "We're gonna have another talk. I
gotta bring you up to date."

Fifteen minutes later, he was winding up. "So this character says he'll
wait until I get back with the note. If you want a wife, don't give
me the note and he'll move the rock. I don't care one way or t'other,
myself. I just want to get out of here!"

Professor Ruddle (Guggles? Roodles?) closed his eyes. "My," he gasped.
Then he shuddered. "Married. To that--battle-axe! That st-steady skirt!
_No!_ McCarney--or McCarthy--listen! You must go back. I'll give you a
note--another check--here!" He tore a page from his notebook, filled it
rapidly with desperate words. Then he made out another check.

McCarthy glanced at the slips. "'Nother bank," he remarked wonderingly.
"This time The Southern Peanut Trust Company. I hope all these
different checks are gonna be good."

"Certainly," the professor assured him loudly. "They will all be good.
You go ahead and take care of this matter, and we'll settle it to
everybody's satisfaction when you return. You tell this other McCarney
that--"

"McCarthy. _Hey!_ What do you mean--'this other McCarney?' I'm the
only McCarthy--only _Gooseneck_ McCarthy, anyway. If you send a dozen
different guys out to do the same job...."

"I didn't send anyone but you. Don't you understand what happened?
You went back into the Cretaceous to move a rock. You returned to
the present--and, as you say, found me in somewhat unfortunate
circumstances. You returned to the past to undo the damage, to
_approximately_ the same spot in space and time as before--it could
not be exactly the same spot because of a multitude of unknown factors
and because of the inescapable errors in the first time machine. Very
well. You--we'll call you You I--meet You II at the very moment You
II is preparing to move the rock. You stop him. If you hadn't, if he
hadn't been interrupted in any way and had shifted that stone, he would
have been You I. But because he--or rather you--didn't, he is slightly
different from you, being a You who has merely made one trip into the
past and not even moved the rock. Whereas you--You I--have made two
trips, have both moved the rock yourself and prevented yourself from
moving it. It's really very simple, isn't it?"

McCarthy stroked his chin and sucked in a great gasp of air. "Yeah," he
mumbled wildly. "Simple ain't the word for it!"

The professor hopped into the machine and began preparing it for
another trip. "Now as to what happened to me. Once you--You I
again--prevented You II from moving that rock, you immediately
precipitated--not so much a change as a--an _unchange_ in my personal
situation. The rock had not been shifted--therefore, I had not been
married, was not married, and, let us hope, will never be married. I
was also no longer bald. But, by the very fact of the presence of the
two You's in the past, by virtue of some microscopic form of life
you killed with your breath, let us say, or some sand you impressed
with your feet,--sufficient alterations were made right through to the
present so that my name was (and always had been!) Roodles and your
name--"

"Is probably MacTavish by now," McCarthy yelled. "Look prof, are you
through with the machine?"

"Yes, it's all ready." The professor grimaced thoughtfully. "The only
thing I can't place is what happened to that camera you said I took
from you. Now if You I in the personification of You II--"

McCarthy planted his right foot in the small of the little man's back
and shoved. "I'm gonna get this thing settled and come back and never,
never, _never_ go near one of these dinguses again!"

He yanked at the chronotransit. The last he saw of the professor was a
confused picture of broken glassware, tangled electrical equipment and
indignantly waving white hair.

       *       *       *       *       *

This time he materialized at the very edge of the beach. "Gettin'
closer all the time," he mumbled as he stepped out of the housing. Now
to hand over the note, then--

Then--

"Great sufferin' two-tailed explodin' catfish!"

There were two men fighting near a red rock. They wore identical
clothes; they had identical features and physical construction,
including the same lanky forms and long, stringy necks. They fought in
a weird pattern of mirror-imagery--each man swinging the same blows as
his opponent, right arm crossing right, left crossing left.

The man with his back to the rock had an expensive miniature camera
suspended from his neck; the other one hadn't.

Suddenly, they both feinted with their lefts in perfect preparation for
what hundreds of railroad bulls had come to curse as "the Gooseneck
McCarthy One-Two." Both men ignored the feint, both came up suddenly
with their right hands and--

They knocked each other out.

They came down heavily on their butts, about a yard apart, shaking
their heads.

"You are the stubbornest cuss I ever saw," one of them began. "Where--"

"--did you learn my punch?" McCarthy finished, stepping forward.

They both sprang to their feet, stared at him. "Hey," said the man with
the camera. "You two guys are twins."

His former opponent differed with him. "You mean _you_ two guys are
twins!"

"Wait a minute." McCarthy stepped between them before their angry
glances at each other could be translated into action. "We're all
twins. I mean triplets. I mean--Sit down. I got somethin' to tell you."

They all squatted slowly, suspiciously.

Four chaws of tobacco later, there was a little circle of dark nicotine
juice all around them. McCarthy was breathing hard, all three of him.
"So it's like I'm McCarthy I because I've seen this thing through up to
where I stop McCarthy II from going back to get the note that McCarthy
III wants from Ruddle."

The man with the camera rose and the others followed. "The only thing
I don't get," he said finally, "is that I'm McCarthy III. Seems to me
it's more like I'm McCarthy I, he's McCarthy II--that part's right--and
_you're_ McCarthy III."

"Uh-uh," McCarthy II objected. "You got it all wrong. The way I look at
it--now see if'n this doesn't sound right--is that _I'm_ McCarthy I,
you're--"

"Hold it! Hold it!" The two men who had been fighting turned to
McCarthy I. "I _know_ I'm McCarthy I!"

"How do you know?" they demanded.

"Because that's the way Professor Ruddle explained it to me. He didn't
explain it to you, did he? I'm McCarthy I, all right. You two are the
stubbornest bindlestiffs I've seen and I've seen them all. Now let's
get back."

"Wait a minute. How do I know I still ain't supposed to move this rock?
Just because you say so?"

"Because I say so and because Professor Ruddle says so in that note I
showed you. And because there are two of us who don't want to move it
and we can knock you silly if'n you try."

At McCarthy II's nod of approval, McCarthy III glanced around
reluctantly for a weapon. Seeing none, he started back to the time
machines. McCarthys I and II hurried abreast.

"Let's go in mine. It's closest." They all turned and entered the
machine of McCarthy I.

"What about the checks? Why should you have three checks and McCarthy
II have two while I only got one? Do I get my cut?"

"Wait'll we get back to the professor. He'll settle it. Can't you think
of anythin' else but money?" McCarthy I asked wearily.

"No, we can't," McCarthy II told him. "I want my share of that third
check. I got a right to it. More'n this dopey guy has, see."

"O.K. O.K. Wait'll we get back to the lab." McCarthy I pushed down on
the chronotransit. The island and the bright sunlight disappeared. They
waited.

       *       *       *       *       *

Darkness! "Hey!" McCarthy II shouted. "Where's the lab? Where's
Professor Ruddle?"

McCarthy I tugged at the chronotransit. It wouldn't move. The other two
came over and pulled at it too.

The chronotransit remained solidly in place.

"You must've pushed down too hard," McCarthy III yelled. "You busted
it!"

"Yeah," from McCarthy II. "Who ever told you that you could run a time
machine? You busted it and now we're stranded!"

"Wait a minute. Wait a minute." McCarthy I pushed them back. "I got an
idea. You know what happened? The three of us tried to come back to--to
the present, like Professor Ruddle says. But only one of us _belongs_
in the present--see what I mean? So with the three of us inside, the
machine just can't go anywhere."

"Well, that's easy," said McCarthy III. "I'm the only real--"

"Don't be crazy. I know _I'm_ the _real_ McCarthy; I _feel_ it--"

"Wait," McCarthy I told them. "This isn't gettin' us any place. The
air's gettin' bad in here. Let's go back and argue it out." He pushed
the lever down again.

So they went back a hundred and ten million years to discuss the matter
reasonably. And, when they arrived, what do you think they found?
Yep--exactly. That's exactly what they found.

[Illustration: _So they went back ... to discuss the matter
reasonably...._]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ME, MYSELF AND I ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
