ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Little Pets of Arkkhan, by Vaseleos
Garson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Little Pets of Arkkhan

Author: Vaseleos Garson

Release Date: January 21, 2021 [eBook #64363]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LITTLE PETS OF ARKKHAN ***




                      The Little Pets of Arkkhan

                          BY VASELEOS GARSON

              Lovable little balls of fur, incongruous on
            this bleak asteroid, forlorn and lonely ... who
              could be blamed for picking one up to take
                along--or for what happened thereafter?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


At first, it was only a spider thread of sound. It was so soft, so
caressing that it was like some healing unguent to the throbbing,
burning boil that was Kent Knight's brain.

Tender and soothing as a wind-wafted melody in the first hush of
evening, his grateful mind whispered. Then his mind was screaming as
the spider thread grew jagged edges that clawed open the first pain
wounds and tore them wider.

Knight lay on the hot rocky plain of the asteroid, sprawling
convulsively where he was thrown when the first sharp hurt slashed at
his mind.

_And it was such a lovely little beastie. All furry and round and
soft. What awful power did it hold? I just touched it. Like an Earthly
kitten, a little furry butterball. I should have known better, but it
was like being on Earth again._

That faint wondering thought whispered through the pain. But it was
flung from him as his pain-frantic brain raged at his nerves, knotted
and twisted his muscles.

There was too much agony for his mind to absorb. Knight sensed the
waning of his mind's last resources with relief. The mental shocks
ceased, his nerves and muscles quieted, and he drifted into a gentle
darkness where there was no pain....

... _It's gone_, his mind observed gleefully. The thankful knowledge
that wakefulness did not bring renewed pain smothered the _other
thing_. But only for a moment.

_Kent Knight. I am Kent Knight, I must remember that. I mustn't forget
it. I mustn't let_ It _make me forget. I am a man. My shipmates and I
crashed on this asteroid in the_ Star Climber.

The _other thing_ laughed at him--_in_ him. The wee bit of Kent Knight
which the _other thing_ couldn't take or didn't want urged him to his
feet. _It_ didn't seem to mind his doing that much.

Knight drew his lean, rawboned frame erect. His muscles didn't hurt
any more, he realized. He ran his strong fingers--which were shaking
now--through his brown hair, ruffling the rock dust out of it. He
looked toward the green oasis on the far side of the rocky plain where
his friends were.

_It's hard to remember that I am Kent Knight. It doesn't really matter
anyway. No, Kent Knight, that's the_ other thing! _I am six feet tall.
I weigh one hundred and seventy pounds. I have brown hair. My eyes are
hazel with funny blue flecks in them. Remember? Looks like somebody
punched at them with a sharp blue pencil--that's what Mary Jo said._

_I wonder if Sammy's drunk. That last time just before we crashed
should have been a drunk to finish even Sammy, his big, broken nose,
shiny, bald head and all._

_Yes, I know_ you _know my every thought, Thing! You've stolen my mind.
But you cannot steal_ me. _I am Kent Knight. I am a man. You, Thing,
are my enemy and man's enemy._

_It_ chuckled in Knight's mind.

"You are whistling in the dark, fool. Have you not wondered why you
crashed on this wandering asteroid? We Arkkhans willed you here. There
was nothing wrong with your ship--we willed you to crash because we
wanted weak creatures like you.

"You are the first we found whose minds are strong enough to contain us
without destroying the motor impulses."

The Thing filled Kent Knight's mind with a thousand scenes and chuckled
as the horror spread like wildfire through the little that was left of
Kent Knight.

"No!" Knight cried, the muscles in his lean throat convulsing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly, Kent Knight began to run. He didn't want to, but his long
sinewy legs drove him across the rocky plain at reckless speed, and his
mind would not answer his frantic orders to stop. His lungs burned and
screamed as they sucked in the asteroid's thin air, and his heart was a
writhing, sobbing thing within his straining chest.

One ankle caught between two rough hands of rock and broke, but he did
not stop running. Each time the weight of his body fell fully upon that
fractured bone, it splintered a little more until the shards were sharp
daggers biting into what mind still belonged to Kent Knight.

Then the other foot--the right one--stepped on a razor-edged rock that
cut through flesh, bone and sinew, but still Kent Knight ran on. The
Thing was chuckling at the stabbing pain signals.

Finally _It_ said, "No, Kent Knight?" _It_ released control, and Knight
sprawled on the hurting rock, the blows and stabs of the rough plain
against his body unfelt through the agony of his crippled feet.

"I hate you, Thing." Knight's deadly thought reached for the Thing
within his mind. Then Kent Knight cradled his head in his arms and
sobbed uncontrollably, his shoulders shaking convulsively, his whole
body trembling with rage and agony.

"Why rebel, Earthling? You cannot prevail against us. So simple it was
to hurt you. If you but accept your destiny as our hosts, it will be
pleasant. Like this!"

The sense of peace which flooded through Kent Knight then was so deep
and so full, he wanted to cry again--this time because he was happy
and free of pain. For the agony in the broken ankle and the slashed
foot was gone. The throb of the bruises, the aching loss of his
individuality, of his will, the horror of his and mankind's destiny
with the Arkkhans--all these were gone.

He stood up slowly and, for the first time since he picked up the
strange furry little creature from its hiding place in a rock crevice,
he felt like Kent Knight.

He lifted his dirty face, streaked with tears, to where he knew Earth
must be circling its familiar old sun. He whispered, "Thing, all my
life I have feared pain. Ever since I was a kid back on Earth and my
pup dug his needle teeth in my hand, I have hated and feared it.

"But peace at your price is not for me. If you don't mind," and
Knight's full, almost sensual lips which loved pleasure so well twisted
wryly as he spoke, "I'll take the pain."

He got it....

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Sammy's hoarse breath, saturated with liquor fumes, that was his
first sensation when he finally crawled wearily back the molten road
from his hell of pain.

His mind listened avidly, reaching out tenuous fingers, searching every
nook and cranny of Kent Knight's brain, seeking out the Thing. The
fingers grew surer, swifter as they worked through the brain, finding
only pain. Then his desperate mind relaxed. Pain was something it
understood; it could take care of that.

Knight opened his eyes. Sammy's blood-flecked black ones, popping as
usual from his flushed face, stared into his eyes from only inches away.

"Cripes," muttered Knight. "Sammy, you're stinking drunk again!"

Sammy pulled his face back far enough so Knight could focus his eyes.
He rubbed a huge blunt paw on his shiny pate, transferred the paw to
his broken nose, tried unsuccessfully to straighten the sharp curve it
made to the right before he answered, very slowly and very distinctly.

"You know, Kent, I do believe that you have made a highly astute and
highly correct observation. I think, however, that you are guilty of
an understatement when you say only stinking drunk. I have never in my
binge-ridden life been as intoxicated as I am at this present moment."

He waved his paw at Knight.

"But, Kent, there is something very definitely wrong. Something is
lousing up the usual beatific feeling I have after three quarts. Honest
to gosh, Kent, I have been drinking for three days and three nights,
but I can't go to sleep. I can't pass out. I can't get happy." He shook
his bald head, and the wall-light made it gleam like a highly polished
egg.

"Hell, Kent," he exploded suddenly. "All I do is drink and, honest to
gosh, it gets tiresome lifting and dropping a bottle all the time, day
and night. But I can't stop. My mind keeps nagging at me to stay drunk.
It's just like there was somebody in me with me." He was shaking his
head like a puzzled child.

Kent Knight sat up slowly, looked first at his feet, then wiggled them.
They were healed all right. At last he looked at Sammy. _So_ they'd
_got him, too. How many of the others have the parasites? And why has
my Thing left me?_

Kent Knight stood up slowly, warily, fearing that the Thing would make
his muscles flaccid, limp, uncontrollable by the wee bit of mind that
still was his.

He looked around the sleeping cubicle he shared with Sammy. He looked
at Sammy's bald pate, the harried black eyes, remembering.

"So I've been gone for three days and three nights, Sammy?" _I couldn't
have been unconscious that long_, his trammeled mind thought, conscious
of the unfelt shackles of the Thing. He walked slowly to the porthole.
His eyes traveled out past the greensward to the rocky plain.

"Asteroid time?" he asked. That wouldn't be so bad but....

"Chron time," Sammy muttered. Three Earth days and nights! _Where have
I been?_ His mind shuddered. _Its_ laughter was mocking.

Kent Knight delved through his memory.

_We were exploring, that was all, checking planets, planetoids and
asteroids with an eye to colonization. We cracked up here. I went
looking for lead to replace a burned-out rocket shield. I saw the
pretty little beastie, a furry little ball. I touched it. And_ It _had
me. I wonder if it got Sammy the same way?_

He started to put the question into words. But he didn't. The answer
was there. A little butterball of fur came into view when Sammy shifted
his seat on the floor. _Then where is mine?_ He looked around the
floor, then turned to where he'd lain on the floor. It was there, still
begging to be touched. He bent toward it, but the memory of pain rose
up sharp. He looked at it instead.

Sammy coughed. "You nervous, Kent? Want to participate in a little
snort?" Sammy took a swig out of the bottle and offered it to Knight.

"No, Sammy. That's what put me on this hellish little ship, remember?
Five years of exile from Earth." Sammy nodded owlishly, and said, in
the cruel honesty of men who have been broken by the same thing, "It's
man's great curse, but women are worse, and you had them both."

"Not women, Sammy, a woman--but she loved another guy so I just walked
out."

"Correction, please," Sammy said. "You floated out." Sammy looked sad.
"That was the trouble, Kent. You should have never stopped floating.
Look at me. I'm happy and I stay that way because of liquor. But you
stopped, and now look at you. In the three years I've been on this ship
with you, you never have smiled once. Come on, have a drink."

Kent Knight shook his head. Sammy took an extra long snort. "Honest
to gosh, Kent, there must be something wrong with this stuff. It's
sobering me up."

Knight looked at Sammy, thinking, _Just wait until_ It _starts talking
to you_. He almost smiled at the thought. But his mind shuddered
instead. Sammy was terror-stricken enough when the little D.T. imps
talked to him. _It_ would drive him mad.

_As_ It _is doing to me. Huh-uh_, his mind whispered cautiously, _you
don't trap me that easily._ Knight strode toward the cubicle door.

He followed the passageway to the outer lock and stepped out into the
asteroid's thin but breathable air. _Hide our thoughts_, his mind
urged, _and I will tell you something._ But _It_ was listening. _Two
times two is four, two times three is six--what do you want to tell
me, mind?--is eight, two times five is--Sammy, careful, careful,
careful!--fourteen, two times eight is sixteen--Sammy what? Sammy what,
mind!--I don't understand--ty-two, two times twelve is--We can't hide
from_ It's _mind--twenty-eight._

_It_ was laughing! Knight's eyes flicked toward the spring where
Captain Isaac Hansen was tasting the water.

"I know everything, Kent Knight," It chuckled. "I could tell you what
your mind is trying to tell you but hide from me."

"Do you?" Knight's thought was listless. "Yes." The part that was
still Kent Knight, though smothered by the Thing's presence, sighed,
and Knight felt himself sigh almost in relief.

"No," Kent Knight said, and his lips were smiling. "You don't know what
it's trying to tell me, Thing. We'll beat you. It will let me know and
you won't know it."

"I _will_ know!" The Thing's thought was sharp, almost angry, and it
struck again with pain. But Kent Knight had hope again, and the pain
didn't matter ... too much....

       *       *       *       *       *

When it was gone, leaving only the echoes behind, Kent Knight raised
himself to his feet, walked slowly toward the tiny spring where Captain
Hansen was still tasting the water.

Captain Hansen, his seamed face beaming, looked up as Knight
approached. His blue eyes were sparkling. "We can make millions on this
water, Kent! It's the fountain of youth that Ponce de Leon sought! Why,
look, I've sipped only about three ounces and look at my old hands.
They're smooth and young as yours! And my face--see the fresh new skin!"

Kent Knight looked at the Captain's hands. They were age-gnarled,
the knuckles big against the wizened fingers. Knight looked at the
Captain's face. It was lined and rough and _old_. He thought, _Another
manifestation of your powers, Thing? Make a man's dream come true? That
is the Captain's dream. He wants never to grow old._

But he said, and he actually put feeling into the words, "Why, you
look like that picture of your son on your desk, Ike. But hadn't you
better be careful? You don't know that water's strength. It might cause
irreparable damage to you."

"That's right," Captain Hansen agreed. "I'm young enough now, don't you
think?"

Knight twisted his lips into a smile he didn't feel, turned back toward
the ship. Captain Hansen followed him, dancing.

_Damn you, Thing!_

_It_ chuckled.

Knight leaned against the wall of the spacemen's mess, his eyes
searching the crew members eating at the long table. _You can tell
which ones still are fighting_ Them. _They are the unhappy ones. But,
God, so few of them!_

_And we're hurtling toward Earth--to bring these parasitic
thought-things to feed upon the minds of mankind. The ship is filled
with them. Everywhere I go, my Thing whispers to those bodiless ones
promising, promising, promising! Thought-conquerors ... the power of
thought had brought Man to the pinnacle of destiny. Now these--these_
Things--_were stealing his birthright!..._

"Do you see now how impossible it is, Earthman? We Arkkhans are so
vastly superior to you, there is nothing you can do but bow to us? And
you will be unutterably happy," his Thing thought.

Into Kent Knight's mind came the soft, sweet face of Mary Jo. _Mary
Jo._ The thought was a caress--warm and tender as the touch of her
hand. Mary Jo, whose warmth and brightness were life to him--even now
when he had lost her forever.

He was remembering....

He'd known it for a long time, ever since the night when the big,
flame-thatched space captain had swerved gracefully over to their table
and said,

"So this is your Faith, Kent. You're right, she's magnificent. No
wonder you're the best damn spacer in the system. With a Faith like
that, you couldn't help it." He knew it when she leaned almost
unconsciously toward him, as if she feared Bob Mallory's mocking green
eyes, his lean, almost hawk-like face.

And as the weeks wore on, the memory stayed with her for she would ask
this and that about Mallory. And he would answer.

He knew for sure the second time the two met. They fought--not in just
words, but with their eyes, with movements of their bodies. And he knew
that he could not fight that lightning with the slow-burning flame that
was his love.

So he said, and with the memory came the pain again, "You love him
quite a bit, don't you." Her blue eyes had looked startled at first,
then almost soft, then harried, "I guess I do, Kent. I'm sorry."

"No need to be sorry," he said. "This sort of thing happens all the
time. I don't love you so much that life would stop without you.
Besides, I like Bob, he's a good joe." I kissed her, he thought, and
I knew I was a damn liar, or why did I go out and try to drink the
distilleries dry? Sure, it was a hurt pride--but I still kind of like
Mary Jo.

The last words he said came back. "This is it, then, Mary Jo.
Good-night, good luck, goodbye."

"I will give her to you, Kent Knight," the Thing said. "Your love will
be the lightning. You can hold her in your arms, feel the warmth and
excitement of her, knowing that she is yours. Nothing can take her from
you."

For a moment, Kent Knight was tempted to let that little bit of mind
that still was his be swallowed up by the Thing. But he remembered in
time.

"Like Captain Hansen's fountain of youth?" his mind asked, and he
laughed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Like a magnified echo to his laugh came the excited clamor of the alarm
bells. The signal board in the mess began to pulse redly. Approaching
mass! Asteroid, wandering star, spaceship? Knight waited.

The look-out's voice came excitedly over the intercom. "SP ship! SP
ship! And her nose is red!"

And her nose is red! Cut rockets or we'll blow you out of the universe.
This was no routine SP check--that would have called for a yellow
signal at the Space Patrol ship's bow.

_It_ wanted to know what was the matter. Kent could feel its thought
fingers searching hurriedly through his mind. And when it didn't find
an answer it grew almost frantic in its headlong scrabbling. Kent
Knight's mind was chuckling. He couldn't tell the Thing why, because he
didn't know himself!

The muted thunder of the rockets to which his mind and ears had
accustomed themselves suddenly cut out as Captain Hansen switched off
the cycs. Then there was a long moment of almost hurting silence, then
the bow rockets began to fire and slow the ship.

The bow rockets ceased too, finally, and the silence came again. But
all the while, Kent Knight's Thing was trying to find an answer.

Sammy came plowing into the mess, a sloshing bottle in one hand, his
bald head glistening, his big nose twitching.

He said to Kent, "I knew it was too good to be true. I was just sitting
in my cubicle looking out and I saw the Moon. I conjectured that
perhaps our exile had come to a premature end. But then that damn SP
ship showed up."

Knight couldn't stop his mind quick enough. The Thing caught it in
mid-flight, and stopped scrabbling. "So that is why. This is a prison
ship and can come only so close to Earth. For a moment, I believed you
Earthmen were stronger mentally than you are."

Hell, I should have known, Knight thought. This is the _Star Climber_.
It's never been back to Earth since its maiden launching. It's not a
prison ship exactly, just a place to live while you serve out your
years of separation from Earth. And only an Earthman can know the
poignant loneliness that comes when he is kept from seeing and smelling
and hearing the loveliness of the planet that bore him. Five years of
an indefinable torture--five years of loneliness and a sense of loss so
deep that it brings you from sleep, screaming for Earth like a kid in
the dark begs for his mother.

You go aboard the _Star Climber_ or one of her sisters. They load you
and supplies aboard. They salute you even in your punishment--you and
the others who are serving the same sentences. Just before you step
through the spacelock, you look up and see the beauty of Earth above
you. You look down at the Moon's dusty plain.

And you set forth on your Odyssey of punishment. You can go anywhere
you please. You can settle anywhere--on any planet. You can do anything
you damn please so long as you stay half a million miles from Earth for
the period of your sentence.

If you come closer than that, the SP ships will blow you into eternity
if you do not heed them when their noses are red.

Like now.

Kent Knight strode to the viewplate and clicked it on.

Her nose was red all right. But it was fading, now that the SP's
warning was heeded. But there were going to be explanations--the SP
commander would come jetting across in his space suit, his regulation
four-man guard behind him. "Explain why you have crossed the line,"
he would say. _Our story will have to be good, Thing_, Kent Knight
thought. Only an emergency will excuse the infraction. And it must be
an honest-to-God emergency, or the _Star Climber_ becomes a satellite
of some lonely star for twice our original sentence. That should stymie
you, Thing.

"Will they take our eyes, Kent?" Sammy asked anxiously, "and tow us to
some godforsaken spot and leave us?"

"I hope so, Sammy," Kent Knight breathed and the part of his mind that
was his was chuckling at the Thing. _It_ chuckled, too. "An SP ship can
go to Earth," it said.

The bright flame of hope that had flared up in Kent Knight's heart was
blown out by despair. Of course, what _would_ stay the Things from
taking over the minds of the SP crew?

"That is right," _It_ agreed. "Nothing can stop us. Even now the
commander is coming across."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kent Knight looked at the viewplate. A spacelock had opened, spewed
forth five space-suited figures.

_So many times I have done exactly what they are doing. Push the stud
at your belt, feel the kick as the tiny cycs take hold and spit their
energy from the jets at your back. Wonder why this exile-ship came
across the line? You think: Are they waiting with guns, ready to blow
us up when we step into the airlock? Or is there something terribly
wrong? Has the loneliness made them mad so they risk coming back just
to see Earth at closer range? Or are all of them dead?_

_I used to think all those things, Kent Knight. Remember? Then I walked
away from Mary Jo, got stinking drunk, and tried to hide it when I took
a ship out on patrol. So now a commander comes to find out why we have
crossed the line._

_Better help out Captain Hansen now. Don't want him to start talking
about how young he looks._

Kent Knight strode out of the messhall, heading for the main airlock,
Sammy and his bottle tagging along behind. All around him, Knight felt
the excited whisper of the Things.

"I don't know what to tell them, Kent," Captain Hansen said anxiously.
"I forgot all about the line. But something kept telling me, 'We're
going home. We're going home ...' and I just set the course. It seemed
so natural, Kent."

"I know, Ike," Knight said softly. Then, as the turning levers on the
inner lock moved, he added, "Here they come."

The five figures, bulky in their lead and rubberoid suits, their
transparent helmets almost opaque as the lights within the ship
reflected from them, closed the lock behind them. Four moved silently
aside, two to stand on either side of the lock, while the commander
strode toward Knight and Captain Hansen.

_I must warn them_, Kent Knight thought. _They mustn't be taken by the
Things. But I cannot move my lips. The Thing knows I want to speak.
There is a way! he thought excitedly._ The Thing became angry, began
scrabbling through his mind, seeking the way, found it. "You will not
forget to do it," _It_ ordered. "Do it!"

With a sudden movement, Kent Knight's body grew taut. His left arm came
up in a quick salute, and the SP commander suddenly stiffened, his four
aides whipped atomic pistols out, held them at ready.

The left-handed salute! Knight's mind was laughing. _I fooled you,
Thing! That's what I wanted to do, salute with my left hand. And you
didn't catch the thought! We'll lick you now, Thing! Sure, you conquer
by thought, but you can't conquer all of an Earthman's mind!_

_The left-handed salute. To an SP man, that means danger, proceed
with caution, destroy everything which you know or feel is inimical
to you. So, Thing, just try to get them to pick up one of your fuzzy
animals. The SP man's prime rule_: When warned, distrust everything and
everybody! You will live longer.

The SP commander left on his glassite helmet, turned on the little
speaker.

"Damn my eyes," the rich vibrant voice which issued from the speaker
exclaimed, "Kent Knight! Of all the exiles who should know better than
to cross the line, it's you. But damn it, Kent, it's swell to see you."
Gauntleted fingers reached to the SP commander's throat, twisted twice,
and then pushed the glassite helmet back from a shock of flaming hair.

Even before the red hair was exposed, Knight had recognized the voice.
Bob Mallory, the lightning which had struck Mary Jo's love from him.

_Please, God_, the mind which still belonged to Kent Knight whispered,
_don't let the Things get him and his ship. He belongs to Mary Jo. She
loves him, and he can't be her Bob Mallory with a Thing in his brain._

_Ah, but what a sweet revenge! Here is the man who stole my girl. Let a
Thing take his brain and let my Thing give me Mary Jo. If I cooperate I
can be powerful among men. Just shake that gauntleted hand and he will
have your Thing and you will have Mary Jo._

Mallory strode forward, his face smiling, one hand outstretched.

_He is your enemy, Kent Knight. He brought you to this exile. He stole
your Faith from you._ No! The part that was still Kent Knight rebelled
and the sharp stabbing memory of the pain he felt when he touched the
furry little animal made him flinch. He stepped back instinctively from
the outstretched hand.

_It_ became angry. Through the tornado of pain which tore through his
body, drowning out his will, Kent Knight heard his own voice saying,
"Sorry, Bob, you startled me." Heard the words his lips voiced, the
words which his pain-fighting mind couldn't silence. Saw his hand reach
out, the hand he could not control, felt it clasp Mallory's firmly.
Knew his lips smiled a smile of treachery masked in friendship.

The pain stopped. But it was too late for Mallory.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mocking green eyes slitted. The firm handclasp loosened. Then
Bob was writhing on the deck, his handsome face grimacing, his body
twisting and convulsing within the space suit.

_I hope you're satisfied, Thing!_ Kent Knight's thought was bitter.
_You are giving him the pain that you gave me--pain that I wouldn't
give to my worst enemy and he is a friend. Sure, he was a rival for
Mary Jo, but he fought fair. I was hurt, too, sure, but it was the
fortunes of love. But, see, even if I loved Mary Jo, I liked Bob. He's
a grand guy...._

_Somehow, Thing, I will beat you. You have hurt a square guy. You have
stolen his mind, just as you have stolen mine. You are destroying
something fine and beautiful. You have trampled on an Earthman's
dream. For that and for Mary Jo, you will pay._

_It_ said nothing.

His mind suddenly began to signal frantically. Knight's glance flashed
to the four space guards at the portal, saw them recovering from their
momentary paralysis at the sight of their commander writhing on the
floor. The atomic pistols which had dropped unconsciously from the
ready were coming up. The pinhole muzzles were centering on him.

"Wait!" Kent Knight's voice snapped authoritatively. "I warned him
there was danger. Will you destroy me before I can explain?"

The four guardsmen hesitated. Knight said urgently, "Don't touch any
living thing on this ship. Shoot anything down if it approaches you.
Anything. We harbor terrible Thought Things which steal our minds. One
has just seized your commander and--"

Knight's voice halted in mid-sentence.

_I'm free_, his mind was crying joyfully. _It's gone. Act quickly, Kent
Knight, act before it can come back._ It _is busy with Bob and he's
strong enough to give it a battle so that_ It _can't watch you, too._

Knight spun around swiftly, seeking Sammy. Sammy has the answer, his
mind had said. Now to find it.

Sammy lay in one corner of the airlock entrance, one hand clutching
his ever-present bottle. But for the first time in a week, Sammy
had succumbed finally to the prodigious quantities of liquor he had
consumed. He was sleeping like a child, the bottle held against his
breast.

Kent strode over to him and reached down to shake Sammy awake. But
before his hands touched the sleeping Sammy, his mind shrieked a
warning. _Remember, Kent, you touched a furry beastie and you got the
Thing. Careful Sammy doesn't give you his._

_Oh, Sammy_, Kent Knight thought, _you have the answer and then, damn
you, Sammy, you pass out. Just when I'm free of my Thing--just when we
need you and your answer most._ Knight was angry for a moment, then his
rage waned. He liked the guy, though he was always in an alcoholic fog.
Unconsciously, he bent down and punched Sammy lightly in the jaw.

Instantly, he knew his mistake, and his mind cried out, _Fool!..._

He flinched in expectation. But nothing happened. There was no
insidious fingering in his brain. A thought developed within him. _Do
the Things sleep when their hosts sleep?_

Kent Knight looked thoughtfully at Sammy's bald head and at the crooked
beak of a nose. _If they did, maybe Man could win after all._

_It_ chuckled.

The suddenness of it plunged Kent Knight back into despair. But then
his mind rallied, and he was chuckling himself. _It_ wasn't inside him.
_Its_ presence wasn't strong enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kent turned slowly, and the heart died within him. Bob Mallory, green
eyes haunted, stared at him over the bore of an atomic pistol.

"I don't know what awful power you have, Knight," his lips twisted
painfully, "but it sure played hell with me. I was going to give you
a break, but now...." Mallory pushed at the white stud, bringing the
atomic gun to full power.

"Don't you feel _It_?" Knight asked desperately. "Don't you feel the
Thing in your mind?"

"I feel nothing, Knight, except that you should be exterminated.
Somewhere you have picked up the power to inflict agony by the touch of
your hand. I can't let you take it to Earth as I know you're planning
to do."

"Mary Jo," Knight said sharply. "Mary Jo." For a moment, the haunting
look was gone from the green eyes, and Mallory's lips twisted in a
smile. The tense fingers on the atomic gun relaxed.

In that instant, Knight acted. _Sorry, mind_, he said under his breath,
_but we can take care of the Thing. It isn't talking to Bob._ He seized
Mallory by the pistol arm, and thought desperately, _Bob, for the love
of Mary Jo, remember the left-handed salute._

He caught Mallory's thought, a frightened, anxious thing. _Something's
wrong! Something's wrong. I feel it. What is it?_

Kent Knight felt _It_ flow into him, saw Mallory's puzzled face,
apologized to his mind and braced himself against the pain.

He kept his eyes fixed upon Mallory's face, saw puzzlement spread over
it, and laughed at the raging Thing. He would have thought that _It_
could match the previous hurt, but the pain this time....

       *       *       *       *       *

The sound of his own sobs still was echoing in his ears when he
awakened. His whole body ached, but his mind was numb and only
partially felt the signals. He opened his eyes, and there was Sammy.

"Hello," Sammy said matter-of-factly. "I do hope you had a pleasant
sleep while I battled over your body."

"It wasn't a pleasant sleep, Sammy. But what do you mean, battled over
my body?"

"Exactly that, my good man," Sammy reported. "They moved us all to the
SP ship, taking us to Earth for observation. Earth! Just imagine it,
Kent. For the first time in three years, we'll be seeing home." He
upended his bottle, his adam's apple bobbing.

"And I can obtain some honest-to-gosh Earth whiskey. No more of this
stuff I've been distilling myself. Oh joy, oh rapture."

"Back up, Sammy," Knight said softly. "What's this about battling over
your body?"

"Nothing too dramatic, really. They just seemed reluctant to let you go
home, too. Seems as if you tried to skewer Mallory. You even beat up
a couple of guards with atomic pistols. You went raving and screaming
through the _Star Climber_ trying to rip instruments out of the ship.

"In short, you went space crazy, Kent. You raved and babbled about some
awful Thing that was running around in your mind."

"Yes?" Knight questioned quietly.

"And Mallory decided that you were better off in the _Star Climber_. He
thinks you've picked up some terrible disease."

Sammy looked at Knight suddenly, searchingly.

"You're all right now, aren't you?" he asked.

It was quite a while before Knight answered. He was going over his mind
with a mental fine-toothed comb. _Is_ It _in me? I can't tell for sure.
Once before I was sure_ It _was gone, and_ It _was here. Is_ It _gone
now?_

"Yes, Sammy," he answered finally. "I think I'm all right now. Why?"

"Well," said Sammy, taking another quick gulp out of the bottle, "You
don't look all right."

His mind, which had been seeking out the Thing in Kent Knight's being,
relaxed from its search and thought of other items.

"Sammy," Knight asked suddenly. "Do _you_ feel queer?"

Sammy looked at Knight, his eyes suddenly harried.

"Honest-to-gosh, Kent, I wouldn't admit this to anybody else. But I
wonder sometimes if _I_ am all right. Everybody else seems just a
little odd to me. I don't know what it is, I just feel it. But, then,
maybe it's me. I'm scared all the time, Kent, and I don't know why.
Sometimes, I believe something's trying to steal _me_." He looked up,
waiting for Knight to laugh.

But Kent Knight's hazel eyes were very serious and very searching.

"Not the physical me," Sammy amended. "But the real me, the essence of
me. So I try to drown that fear in my bottles. I never had that feeling
until we landed on that asteroid. And now it won't go away."

_You were supposed to have the answer, Sammy_, Knight thought
despairingly. _But I guess you haven't. The Thought Conquerors have got
to you, too. Because we are complex in our mental makeup, the reaction
is different. You only feel there's something wrong with_ It _in you;
It didn't seem to affect Mallory much;_ It _made Captain Hansen believe
he's young;_ It _made itself known to me and I wanted to fight_ It.

_But how can you fight_ It _when you have no measure of your
opponent--when_ Its _attack is so varied--when_ It _comes and goes as_
It _wills?_

He shrugged in answer. To Sammy, he put the question, "So we're going
home?"

"It won't be much longer now," Sammy said. "The make ready signal
buzzed just before you woke up."

The urgency struck at Knight. Only a hundred thousand miles from Earth!
Rather, Earth was only a hundred thousand miles from slavery--abject
submission to these Thought Conquerors, first seen by Earthmen as furry
little butterballs.

Kent stood up. "You offered me a drink a couple of days ago, Sammy.
I'll take that drink now." Sammy parted with the bottle, almost
reluctantly.

Knight strode to the porthole and looked out at the star-studded
panorama. _We're near Earth, so very, very near. We're carrying her
doom._

He turned his back on the porthole, hoisted the bottle.

"A toast, Sammy," he said. "To might-have been. To Earth--which, but
for this ship, might have reached the stars."

Knight put the mouth of the bottle to his lips and tilted it. The fiery
liquor burned in his mouth, seared at his throat, sent warm fingers
reaching through his belly.

He hurled the bottle to the floor. It smashed against the duralloy and
the brown liquid spread. Smashed! Like Earth as the Thought Conquerors'
conquests spread.

"Are you batty, Kent?"

Knight strode from the cubicle without answering.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bob Mallory jerked his red head around when Knight came striding into
the pilot room.

It _had sensed him_, Knight thought. It _knows how I hate_ It, And--his
heart was filled with a bright blaze of hope--It _fears me!_

Mallory's atomic pistol was out, but Knight was reckless. He leapt
forward. _Come into_ my _mind, Thing! I know you. I can fight you now.
I have no weapon, no answer to your strength, but you are afraid of me!_

Somehow, Knight dodged the flashing bolt, touched Mallory's arm. It
_accepted the challenge and came to him._ But the pain was sufferable.
He could stand the pain! His mind was exultant. It called orders to
Kent Knight and Knight answered.

"Mallory," he cried, even as a part of his mind battled against _It_.
"You must turn the ship, head it away from Earth. We're carrying a
cargo of death!"

Mallory's handsome face was puzzled. A sort of apathy was mixed with it.

"Move, damn you!" Knight snapped. "Fire in the aft bow rockets, kick
this ship around. Signal! Signal!"

The pain of _It_ didn't seem to increase, and its control of his will
wasn't growing stronger. _So much pain_, he thought happily, _has
vaccinated me against_ It.

_Oh, please, let there be time!_ Mallory turned slowly toward the
control board. He was shaking his head dazedly.

"Don't shout so," Mallory said finally, almost petulantly. "I have a
terrific headache." He beat at his forehead with the back of a clenched
fist.

The puzzled look was fading from his face. He turned suddenly to stare
at Knight. "What's the matter with you, Kent? Are you going to throw
another fit?"

"Damn you, Bob, can't you hear? Kick this ship around. We're loaded
with death, I tell you."

"You crossed the line," Mallory said, accusingly.

_It_ was going wild within Knight, but it wasn't hurting so very much.
The pain wasn't so strong that it completely occupied Kent Knight's
mind.

_Great gods of space_, Knight thought in exasperation. _This dumb
Mallory can't understand that Earth's destiny lies in his hands. He's
got to turn the ship. I can't. The Thing is just strong enough to stop
me. Something had to be done to shock Mallory out of his lethargy._

"Damn it, Mallory," Kent grated. "You stole my girl! The least you
can do for me is to swing this ship around. By my Faith, it means
everything."

Mallory jerked. His green eyes suddenly came alive. "I stole your girl,
huh? By your Faith? _Your_ Faith?" Mallory spun to the control board,
snapped switches and barked alert orders.

The ship shuddered as the bow rockets kicked up a cross power that
swung the bow, spinning the two Earthmen in the pilot room off their
feet.

Mallory came to his feet, both fists swinging, his green eyes glinting,
his red head bobbing. But Knight was quick on his feet, too, and he was
dodging the light-moving Mallory.

"I'll keep _It_," he said, side-stepping Mallory. _It_ was weakening
within Kent Knight's mind. Knight knew that the minute he had ducked
Mallory's first darting punch. _Just so long you can hold sway_, his
mind jibed at the Thing, _then you succumb. This is just the start.
We'll smash you one by one._

"You haven't done it alone," _It_ protested weakly. "You had a weapon,
a terrible weapon, but you still don't know the weapon."

When _It_ died, an intangible weight lifted from Kent Knight's mind.
The intoxication of that feeling of an untrammelled mind mingled with
the fiery liquor that still burned in his belly.

"All right, Bob," he said, and he was grinning. "I'll fight you now."

Mallory grinned back. "It's all right, Kent. I'm just beginning to
understand. It's hazy, but somehow I feel that I have just escaped some
terrible fate. I've been in a daze ever since we challenged the _Star
Climber_. But what happened to me to do that, Kent?"

Kent Knight, his mind exulting, told Mallory of the asteroid, the
little fur-ball and the Arkkhans who were seeking to enslave Man.

"But our minds are too strong for them," he pointed out at last. "They
can keep us in thrall just so long and then they weaken and die."

A shuffle of feet on the duralloy deck turned their heads. SP guardsmen
were pushing their way into the pilot room, and they were laughing.

Their laughter brought a sudden drenching to Knight's high-flying
spirits. The Things still lived within these men. The threat to Earth
was still alive, so long as the Things held sway within the minds of
the crewmen. _But we need only to wait, and soon their minds will kill
the Thought Conquerors._

Knight looked at Mallory. Mallory nodded and said, "It may take a long
time." He reached to the control board and pushed the switch, turning
the cycs up to full power.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was then that the little butterball of fur rolled in from the
passageway and scooted across the deck toward Mallory's legs.

"Look out, Bob!" Knight called. But the butterball was quicker than
Mallory's pistol. He squirmed suddenly, his face stiffening with the
pain of the Thing's entrance.

[Illustration: _"Look out!" Knight called. But the thing was quicker
than Mallory._]

Knight caught a sudden thought within his mind. With an abrupt
movement, he spun, dashed for the guardsmen by the door and plowed his
way through them somehow, feeling the shock of a half-dozen Things
darting into his body.

But he broke through, the Things within him screaming and snarling at
his mind. _Sammy had the answer! He still has the answer. Sammy has
the weapon._ The words pounded into his mind, upholding it against the
onslaughts of the Things.

_They hate me!_ He gloried in the thought. _Let them. I have the weapon
now. Hating me won't hurt any more!_

He fell, tripping; one leg had momentarily refused to function as the
concentrated power of the thoughts of the half-dozen Things within him
lashed at his mind. He staggered to his feet, his mind fighting, his
lungs laboring.

He found the cubicle door at last, and with a tremendous effort of
will stepped across the threshold. Sammy was there--good, wonderful,
precious Sammy, with his bald head, his hook nose and his bottle. His
bottle.

He half-staggered across the room. The Things within him screamed and
tore at his very soul, but he managed to snatch the bottle from Sammy's
hand and gulp it hurriedly. The Things tried to make him vomit, but he
held the hot liquor down until he felt it warming him deep inside.

The shock of the liquor reached into his blood stream and he felt the
Things' frantic struggles wane.

_Yah_, he thought exultingly, _yah! One man's drink is another man's
poison. And, Things, are you going to get poisoned!_

The Things died. _I'm just a little drunk_, Kent Knight thought. He
looked down around him. For a moment, he thought he saw a half-dozen
shadows on the silvery deck. But then the shadows were gone and his
mind was free again.

Sammy was staring at him with worried eyes. Knight bent down and kissed
Sammy's bald spot with a loud smack.

"Bless you, you stinking drunk," Knight muttered, and staggered out,
bottle in hand.

Sammy was still sitting there when Knight came back with four
guardsmen. The bottle he had was removed from his hand and Knight and
the guardsmen staggered out.

Sammy didn't mind the second or the third or the fourth time, but,
when Knight came back with Mallory and snatched the fifth bottle, he
rebelled.

He hung onto the bottle. "What in the name of space are you doing with
my liquor? Are you trying to put me on the wagon?"

Knight and Mallory laughed and almost as a duet shook their fingers in
Sammy's face.

"We're having a purge. We are cleaning minds of nasty thoughts." Sammy
relinquished the bottle, and puzzledly followed Knight and Mallory.

He followed them all over the ship, but they didn't find any more minds
to purge. Finally, Kent Knight said, "I think the Arkkhans are gone,
Bob."

"Yeah," the red head replied. "But maybe we ought to give everybody
another slug of it just to be sure they're not hiding out."

That bottle and several others went down the throats of the crew amid
the wails and laments of Sammy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sammy snored peacefully in a corner as Knight and Mallory talked. "It's
funny when you think of it," Mallory commented. "They must have been
more than just pure thought, or how could the liquor bother them?"

"Sammy had the clue. All the time I thought he had one of them in his
mind, but he didn't. His subconscious mind somehow made him stay drunk.
He knew something was trying to get at him.

"I feel sure, but somehow I'll never know, that they had a physical
body of some sort, else they could have roamed at will across space.
They wouldn't have needed any hosts."

Knight rubbed the nape of his neck where the hackles had risen at the
memory of that furry little body he had touched which had brought _It_
into his mind.

"Then it seemed like an actual weight, a physical load, lifted from my
mind when the Things died in me," he added, tapping a tumbler of the
amber fluid on the table between them. "I'm sure I saw their bodies
fading away that last time. There were a half-dozen shadows on the
floor and then they disappeared."

Mallory nodded agreement. "I saw shadows, too, when we poured that
liquor down a couple of my men. But what I can't figure is why your
Thing jumped back and forth. First you had it. Then you gave it to me,
and took it back again."

"I guess they just couldn't help it, Bob. Maybe it was instinctive, or
perhaps they needed to change hosts lest they became rooted into one
and died with it."

Knight stared at the glass, picked it up. He looked quietly at Mallory.
"How's Mary Jo, Bob?"

Mallory grinned. "I wondered how long it would be before you asked
that. So I suppose I'd better say it now."

He picked up his glass, clicked against Knight's. "Here's to Faith," he
said. "Your Faith, Kent Knight."

"_My_ Faith?"

"Mary Jo didn't know how much she loved you until you walked out so
gallantly. But," he added ruefully, his green eyes flickering, "I found
out what a smash climax you gave her. So, since then I've been looking
for a Faith like yours.

"Honestly, I don't see what the hell she sees in you. You're about as
romantic as an old shoe. But...." He drank in one swift gulp.

Kent Knight only stared out into space, seeing nothing for the joyous
tears in his eyes.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LITTLE PETS OF ARKKHAN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
