ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Earth is Missing!, by Carl Selwyn

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Earth is Missing!

Author: Carl Selwyn

Release Date: January 21, 2021 [eBook #64361]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EARTH IS MISSING! ***




                           EARTH IS MISSING!

                            By CARL SELWYN

             87th Century Earth, entombed in a relentless,
          mile-thick coat of ice--its buried cities groaning
         in slow-congealing despair--still dreaded far more a
       bestial horror, known only as The Bear. For that monster
       with a human brain was threatening to _steal the world_!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The searchlights playing across the building's dark windows, the police
cordon holding back the crowd--the telenews cameras ate it up.

The telenewsmen never seemed to care whether they got in the way of a
stray shot or not. They had the video cameras set up right out in the
middle of the icy street. The announcer was talking rapidly into his
portable mike.

"They've got the building surrounded now, folks! For those who faded
in late, this is your teletabloid reporter bringing you an on-the-spot
picture...."

The picture was being reproduced on television screens throughout
the ice-bound world, in London, Moscow, Singapore, New York--in New
York's buried city in particular. It was happening there. New Yorkers
crowded around their screens in the bright plastic salons deep in the
vita-lamped society levels, in the tidy middle-class apartments several
miles nearer the surface, even in a dingy hovel just under the earth's
frozen crust, a few blocks from where the scene was being enacted, a
sallow-faced tenement family was gathered around an ancient Eightieth
Century television set.

"It's one of The Bear's gang, folks! Although the rest of the gang got
away after this morning's Radium Bank stick-up, the police wounded one
of them. They've trailed him to this vacant building high in the upper
levels and--Wait! What's this! A plainclothes man just went in the
building! He went in there _alone_...."

       *       *       *       *       *

... It was dark inside.

Johnny Steel flashed his light on the stairs. There was the same red
trail that had brought them here--blood, frozen as it fell. He cut
the light off again instantly, pausing till his eyes got used to the
darkness again. The heavy pistol was cold in his hand.

Perhaps he _was_ crazy, coming in here alone! The Homicide Squad had
certainly thought so when he'd ordered them to wait outside.

The stairs were a vague outline slanting up into the deserted
building's gloom. At the top, a corridor cut off to the right.

"Floyd ..." Steel called softly. He'd told no one that he knew the man
they were hunting down. "Floyd, this is Johnny Steel. I'm coming up
alone...."

His voice echoed through the chill corridor above. There was no answer.

He moved slowly up the stairs. He was a big man, tall and heavy with
most of the weight in his arms and shoulders. Near the corner at the
top, he paused, listening in the darkness.

"_Afraid to come up, Johnny?_"

Steel jumped. He flattened against the wall. The hoarse voice wasn't
three feet from his ear. His finger took up the slack in his pistol's
trigger.

"Your boys got in some pretty good target practice on me this
afternoon, didn't they, Johnny?" The voice came from just around the
corner. Steel felt the sweat trickling down his neck despite the cold.
"You wouldn't tell 'em to take it easy, huh--that I was an old chum of
yours?"

Steel finally found his voice. "Floyd, you killed two guards in that
Radium Bank. I came up here to try to reason with you--because you used
to be my best friend. Tell me who The Bear is--and I'll do my best to
help you at the trial."

A husky laugh echoed in the dark corridor. "You know I'm no squealer,
Johnny." But now there was a faintly preoccupied tone in the voice.
Then Steel heard the faintest scrape of a foot on the corridor floor.

"Floyd!" Steel pled. "Listen to reason!" He paused a moment, listening.
But only a moment. Then he backed quickly and silently several steps
down stairs. He left the right wall and quickly crouched over against
the left. The next instant, he saw a hand flick around the corner at
the head of the stairs. A volt pistol roared, blasting the spot where
he had been standing.

As the building trembled with the explosion, a figure appeared around
the corner, looking down the stairs.

"Floyd! For God's sake--!" Steel cried.

Instantly, the pistol in the figure's hand whipped toward Steel's
voice. And Steel couldn't take another chance.

He fired.

The figure hung there a moment like a clubbed ox. Then it crumpled to
the floor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Steel lowered his pistol slowly. Big shoulders sagging, he walked
slowly up the steps. There were tears in his eyes as he stood there
looking down at the shadowed form on the floor. Around him he felt
the familiar walls of the old deserted building in which as small boys
they'd played cops and robbers together. They had played together in
that very street outside, grown up together in that cold miserable
place of eternal twilight that was the slums of New York City in 8646
A.D. What chance did a kid have in that environment! Only by sheer
luck had he himself been sent to an orphanage in the warm lower levels
instead of to a reformatory. It wasn't Floyd's fault that he lay here
dead by a policeman's gun. It was the fault of Ninetieth Century
civilization.

Looking down at the friend he'd been forced to kill, Steel knew that
somehow, if it took him the rest of his life, he had to brighten that
shadowed world in the street outside--and he declared a private war
against the gangsters who led its kids astray....

He walked down the steps and called to his men. "Come on up. It's all
over."

But he knew it wasn't all over. For Johnny Steel, it had just started.

The morgue men bringing the body out, the District Attorney slapping
Detective John Steel on the back--the telenews rehashed the story every
hour on the hour. "Definitely slated for the Police Medal, the husky
young cop who this afternoon brought down with one shot...."

The leather-faced old man sitting across the desk twirled a knob on the
office video screen, turning the announcer's voice down. "Johnny"--his
hawk face beamed around his pipe--"with all this publicity you're going
to be Commissioner when I retire."

Steel shook his head patiently. "Quit trying to change the subject,
Chief," he said. He uncrossed his long legs and leaned forward in
his chair. "Listen--you say you'll give me a Patrol. But you've sent
Patrols up on the ice before. When they get there they can't find a
soul. The Bear's got scouts out. They can spot a large group too easy.
I tell you it's a one-man job."

Commissioner Brandt sighed. "Johnny," he said and his eyes stopped
smiling. "I tell _you_ I don't intend to lose another one of my best
blood-hounds." He took his pipe out of his mouth to point it at the
gold-starred plaque on the office wall. "In the last two years I've
sent five good men up on the ice after The Bear. None have come back."

It was true. Steel eyed him a moment. Then he got up and paced the
length of the office, hands deep in his pockets. Finally, he walked
over to the inter-office video and cut it on. A police sergeant's face
faded in on the screen. "Put The Bear file on," Steel told him.

"Yes, sir." The sergeant pressed a button and his face faded with his
words. It was replaced by a title card, then the complete sound-picture
reel of everything police records had on The Bear.

"Go on," Commissioner Brandt said, watching from his desk. "After you
find out more about him, maybe you'll forget this damn fool idea of
yours."

Steel ignored him, stared thoughtfully at the screen. What he saw was
not pretty.

The Consolidated Tungsten Plant, a $500,000 haul. Central Electric,
bankrupt after one robbery. Uranium, Inc. had lost a cool million and
its vice-president. But the victim topping the list was Vita-Heat. The
Bear had pulled five separate jobs there in the last two years. Not
only had Vita-Heat lost a fortune in irreplaceable equipment but six
faithful employees had disappeared without a trace--no trace except
that symbol that struck terror in every insurance executive's heart: An
ice-bear's claw, left sticking in the wall like a dagger.

That wasn't all.

Not only had five of Brandt's special investigators vanished when they
went after The Bear but sometimes their wives, children, and close
friends, too. Often, when The Bear's revenge was through, there was
nobody left to receive a police pension. Such was The Bear's long reign
of horror--robbery, kidnapping, murder. Worst perhaps was the fact
that the body of none of his victims was ever found. But, of course,
the endless ice moor up on the earth's desolate crust was a mute and
careful sexton....

Steel cut the video off. Commissioner Brandt came around the desk and
put a hand on his shoulder. "Johnny," he said, "We've proved there's
no sense trying to find The Bear's hideout in umpty billion ice caves
on the surface. The only thing we can do is keep on setting traps for
him--try to figure out where he's going to strike next. We did it today
and we got one of them. Next time maybe we'll get The Bear himself."

"Next time!" Steel turned away disgustedly. "While we're waiting, The
Bear's recruiting more kids in the upper levels to do his dirty work.
We won't get The Bear. We'll keep on killing these poor kids he gets
to work for him." He walked over to the glass case standing in the
corner, stared down at the ivory saber-like ice-bear's claw inside, a
sample of The Bear's visiting card. Then suddenly he turned back to the
Commissioner. "Chief," he said, "will you let me go after him alone or
won't you?"

"Johnny, I just can't let you risk--"

"Okay," Steel said. His hand slipped inside his coat, came out with his
little silver detective shield. He laid it on the Commissioner's desk.
"Vita-Heat, Inc. is offering $100,000 reward for The Bear. It looks
like I'm going into the private detective business."

       *       *       *       *       *

The dome of vita-lamps high above the glistening canyons of the lower
level bathed the creamy streets in a golden shower as Steel's tunnel
car shot out of the midtown exit. He swerved through the traffic on the
mirrored boulevard and drew up before a smooth plastic structure that
soared above the other buildings on the level. Letters six feet high on
the building's face read VITA-HEAT, INC. He got out, strode into the
building and took the express chute up.

When the chute door opened, he stepped out into the luminous paneled
reception room and went over to the blonde receptionist. "John Steel,"
he said. "I called Mr. Stahl. He's expecting me."

The blonde charged up a smile for him; then she realized he wasn't
staring at her well-filled tunic but at his own thoughts. She repeated
his words into her desk microphone, a green light flashed, and she said
coldly, "All right. Go on in." Across the room, a panel in the wall
slid back.

Steel walked in. The panel closed again quickly behind him.

A fluorescent ceiling's blue-white glow burnished the carved cave-tree
wood of an office befitting Vita-Heat's President. Behind a gleaming
desk, Hampton Stahl's great bulk rose, pink cheeks smiling. Then Steel
saw with some surprise the young woman who reclined in a pillowy chair
beside the desk. With more surprise, he recognized her from telenews
glimpses of society. It was Miss Lois Harmon, emerald-eyed queen of
last season's debutantes, and Steel frowned slightly; he had come here
strictly on business. Then Stahl was shaking his hand, introducing him.

Stahl was a big man, tall as well as fat, but his bulk wasn't that with
which middle age often covers a big man. His weight was that of a blue
ribbon pig, a great white pig swilled on the 90th Century's greatest
private fortune. And, Steel thought, the girl was also an expensive
looking animal, lean, golden tan, smooth. Her hair was the same golden
hue of her cheeks.

"Miss Harmon, you know, is the daughter of my late partner," Stahl said
when his visitor was seated. "I'm trying to persuade her to sell me her
stock in the company."

"It's because I always argue with him at directors' meetings," the girl
laughed. She was as smooth all over as a pedigreed cat. She'd inherited
a fortune when her father, one of Vita-Heat's founders, had been killed
in a laboratory explosion many years ago. "Now go right ahead with your
business," she said, rising. "I've got to go downstairs to the Bank.
When you're through," she told Stahl, "you can pick me up there for
cocktails." She smiled at Steel, gave him her exquisitely manicured
hand and departed. Twenty-four karat, Steel thought. He wondered if
she'd have turned out as well however if she'd been brought up in a
tenement in the upper levels....

When the panel closed behind her, Stahl turned back to his visitor.
"So," he said, "we have another who thinks the risk worth the reward?"

"That," Steel said, "is what I came here to talk about. Mr. Stahl, your
corporation has a standing offer of $100,000 for anybody who gets The
Bear. I want a million."

The brows shot up over Stahl's piggish eyes. "_What!_"

"Here's my proposition," Steel said, smiling. "Instead of rewarding
me--if I get The Bear--I want Vita-Heat to go into partnership with me.
A sort of partnership in philanthropy. As my reward, I want Vita-Heat
to go to work in the upper levels."

Hampton Stahl adjusted a long cigarette into a silver holder. "I must
say, this is--"

"It shouldn't run into much," Steel continued. "You'd be using your
own material and labor at cost prices. It would just be a matter of
installing enough vita-lamps up there for people to live by--there's
only one to a street corner up there now."

"But--a million dollars!"

"Mr. Stahl," Steel said, "your company's already lost five million and,
the way I see it, you're going to lose a lot more if The Bear isn't
stopped. I think this partnership business of mine is pretty sound. We
both have good reason to want The Bear brought to justice."

Suddenly a cunning look came into Stahl's eyes. "Just what makes you so
anxious to get The Bear, Mr. Steel?"

For a moment, Steel hesitated. But he couldn't forget that picture in
his mind--Floyd, lying in that deserted building, cornered, hunted
down like a mad dog. Sure it was justice--but what had made him a mad
dog! His smile faded. "All right," he said quietly, "I'll tell you why
I want to get The Bear. It's the same reason I want to get _you_, Mr.
Stahl--or your money rather. Those poor souls in the upper levels have
two enemies--the gangsters and the big corporations. The gangsters find
a young kid up there, give him a gun and make a criminal out of him.
And your corporations force him into a career of crime just as much as
the gangsters do. You own the tenements. You make those people live
in conditions that are so bad you won't even go up there and look at
them. You pay $2.00 a day in your mercury mines while you get $4.00 a
day rent for your vita-lamps." Steel had to hang on to his temper. "If
the upper levels are given a _chance_ to live decently, they will live
decently!"

Stahl's thick lips curled in amusement. "A pretty speech, Mr. Steel.
I admire your philosophy." He sank back in his chair, toying with his
silver cigarette holder. "But business, you know, is business...."

Steel stared at him, wondering what was holding him back. He wasn't a
member of the Force anymore. Reach across that desk and push his fat
face in! Instead, he said, "Okay, I guess that's all then. I'll have to
do what I can with just the reward money."

As he stood up an intercom box on Stahl's desk buzzed urgently. Stahl's
plump finger touched a button.

"_Mr. Stahl!_" a voice shrieked from the box. "_A gang of masked
men--they just held up the radium vault in the bank downstairs again!_"

The pink color drained from Stahl's fat cheeks. His thick lips fell
open.

Steel's hand darted into his coat pocket and came out with his gun. He
started for the door. "Come on!" he said. "If that's The Bear it's the
second time he's struck today!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was. Sticking in the vaults lead wall was a gleaming white ice
bear's claw. That was all--except the chattering crowd, a small army of
Stahl's embarrassed guards, and Miss Lois Harmon who had seen the whole
thing.

A masked gloved man had suddenly appeared at the teller's cage and at
each alarm button--they'd seemed to know the layout perfectly, she told
Steel. There were seven of them; four held pistols on the crowd while
the other three emptied the contents of the vault into leadex bags.
Then they'd marched out, stepped into a waiting tunnel car and streaked
into the upper level tunnel. The girl's green eyes were bright with
excitement. She seemed to be enjoying this like a telemovie.

"It was wonderful! I only wish they'd kidnapped me and taken me with
them."

Steel looked at her with open disgust. Poor bored little rich girl--he
felt like turning her across his knee and spanking that $200 girdle.
"It was just sheer luck somebody wasn't killed here," he said. "Now you
stick around. I hope the police lock you up as a material witness."

The cop on the corner had called the station and the squad was on the
way. The gun in Steel's hand was all the authority he needed however.
He cleared the crowd away from the vault and walked in. Hampton Stahl
followed him, wringing his pudgy hands. "The second time today!" he
moaned. "They're trying to ruin me!"

The vault was perfectly safe from radiation now. It was empty, every
drawer cleaned out. Steel braced his knee against the wall and pulled
out the claw. "We've never found fingerprints on one of these yet." The
claw was about eight inches long, white with a faint tinge of pink. He
looked at it thoughtfully for a moment. Suddenly he held it up to the
light and examined it carefully. He glanced from the claw to Stahl.
Then he reached out, dropped the claw in the fat man's vest pocket.
"Well," he said, "have you changed your mind about my proposition now?"

Stahl lifted the thing from his pocket as if it were a spider and threw
it on a table. "Anything," he murmured, "They may try to kill me next!"

"Fine!" Steel grinned at him. "But since you were so slow making up
your mind, I want an additional clause in my contract now--a little
life insurance policy with the upper levels as the beneficiary. You pay
off if I get The Bear or if The Bear gets me."

Stahl looked at him in silence. It was hard to tell whom he was
cursing, The Bear or Steel. "What makes you think you can even find The
Bear's hideout?"

Steel picked up the claw again. "I just noticed there is a tinge of
pink in this thing," he said, "and it's only eight inches long. This
claw came from an ice-bear cub that was born only a few months ago and
the only place they're born this time of the year is near that warm
comet crater up on the surface near the Jersey Ruins." He dropped the
claw back on the table. "Now, if you won't let anyone know I'm working
for you," he said, "I'm going up there on a little hunting trip...."


                                  II

The Interlevel Limited left the lower warmth and streaked up the
great winding tunnel through the neat residential suburbs, through
the squalid upper levels, through the ice-locked roots of ancient
Manhattan. But Steel barely noticed when the windows in his compartment
frosted over. He was studying his glacier maps.

The comet crater was located near the frozen ruins of what was once a
surface city named Jersey. He'd been on a snow-deer hunt up there once;
an old guide had told him about the ice-bear cubs.

Steel plotted his course from the Surface Terminal to the Ruins, then
checked his equipment list--electrosuit, oxygen helmet, volt rifle,
rations. He'd charter a little ski plane at the Terminal.

When he finished, he leaned back in his seat and glanced at his watch.
Almost there. Had he forgotten anything? Fitted into the oxygen helmet
was a little radio unit so he could keep in touch with Stahl. He'd set
up a receiver in a vacant room in the Vita-Heat Building and arranged
for one of Stahl's guards to be there at all times. He'd also arranged
for Stahl to send a copy of their contract--reward or insurance--to
Commissioner Brandt. Not that he didn't trust Stahl.... Well, it looked
as if he was all set. He'd buy a hunting license to put on the ski
plane--for all anybody'd know he was out for snow-deer. He'd spend the
night at the Terminal Hotel, leave first thing in the morning....

When the Limited's whirring ceased, he put away the maps and picked
up his bag. As the outer door slid open, he stepped out into the vast
Terminal and headed for the viewway that would take him to the hotel.

The Terminal was a heavily insulated cavern in the ice crust. The
landing and departure stalls encircled the huge room where the motley
thousands of hurrying travelers bought tickets, waved goodbyes or
greetings, or waited sleepily around Dr. Albert Harmon's chrome statue.
As Steel passed the statue of the shaggy-haired bespectacled old man,
he eyed it thoughtfully. Dr. Harmon's experiments with household and
jet propulsion heat had done a lot of good but it looked as if his
green-eyed daughter wasn't good for anything but a cocktail party....
Then he was on the viewway. His spine tingled at the sight outside.

Standing on the crowded belt as it slid past the Terminal's long
window, he had a perfect view of the glacier. Glistening in the
starlight, the great ice waste stretched to the horizon like a sheet of
silver. Tiny varicolored lights swept across the jet backdrop of outer
space--freight planes bound for Earth's other buried city-states, for
the frozen mines of Neptune, Venus, Mars, or for the nebulous worlds
of other suns. Those other suns, pinpoints of light in infinity--when
the Solar System had cooled, they had been a beckoning hope. Then their
planets had been found even less inhabitable than Earth. Poisoned
atmospheres, molten lands, boiling seas--habitation was impossible. It
was undoubtedly mankind's greatest tragedy, Steel thought, that it was
doomed to call a frozen Earth home forever.

"Look! A liner's coming in!"

A group of tourists ahead of Steel stepped off the belt to the walkway
alongside and stared through the plexiglass window at a fish-like space
ship that was drifting down to a landing stall nearby. Steel also
stepped off to watch.

"It's all automatic," one of the tourists explained to his wife. "A
radio beam brings 'em here and lands 'em. The pilots don't have much to
do."

Steel watched the great ship settle to the stall's roof, the roof slid
open, the ship sank in out of sight, the roof slide closed again.

"Let's go down and watch 'em unload." The tourists moved to a belt
nearby that led to the landing stall. And, because he had nothing
better to do till morning--Steel followed them.

The moment he got there he knew something was wrong.

"Get back!" A Terminal guard stepped in front of the group of
onlookers. "Nobody's allowed near the ship!"

Beyond the quickly formed line of guards, Steel saw an excited group of
Terminal executives gathered at the ship's open door. What was up? The
ship appeared to be okay. It had come in all right.

"What's the trouble?" somebody asked.

The guard was staring anxiously at the ship himself. "Don't know," he
said. "When that ship came in, _there wasn't nobody on it_...."

Steel shouldered his way to the front of the crowd to stare across
at the ship's open door. Around him, the crowd buzzed with the news.
A woman who had been waiting to meet somebody on the ship started
screaming. The ship had come in on the radar beam, on time, but with
pilots, stewardesses, twenty passengers, and cargo--missing!

"Pirates!" The word swept through the crowd. The ship had come from
Venus. And not five minutes ago the pilot had reported he was arriving
on schedule, the trip uneventful. Then the crowd quickly discovered
what had happened. A Terminal cop appeared at the ship's door. A hush
went over the crowd. In the cop's hand was an ice-bear's claw.

There was a hush, then one whisper in a thousand throats. "_The Bear!_"

Steel turned to a man beside him. "What was the cargo?"

"That--that's what's so awful," the fellow said. "It was carrying a
load of Venusian tungsoid. And there ain't but two things you can make
with tungsoid--electrotubes or _suffo-gas_!"

Suffo-gas! A deadly vapor, its production had been banned on Earth ever
since mankind moved underground. One whiff of suffo-gas in New York's
ventilation pipes.... Steel turned back through the crowd.

He didn't take the belt to the hotel. He walked, big hands deep in his
pockets, thinking, thinking things he hardly dared think of.

That ship had been pirated close by. Its route in from Venus was from
the south-east. That cargo of tungsoid had been pirated over the
Jersey Ruins. He was on the right track and it was a hurry-up job.
There was little reason to believe The Bear had gotten interested in
electrotubes....

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning when the first yellow rays of the sun's dying ember
slanted across the ice, Steel's ski plane circled up from the Terminal
and headed south-east.

Crossing the sub-zero ice crevices on foot would have taken months
but it was just a short hop by plane. It was a hop, however, that few
planes took. Freight and liner traffic from the Terminal immediately
headed for the stratosphere. Near the surface, the glacier's fangs
probed every cloud and blizzards of liquid air roamed the uncharted
chasms. Only an occasional prospector or hunter attempted low-altitude
flying here and often these never returned.

This morning, however, Steel was lucky. The weather was clear and
ceiling unusually high, the peaks rearing from the shadow-filled
valleys like glittering icicles in the pale yellow light. When he
checked his instruments by the chart and headed the plane down over the
ice field that choked the Jersey Ruins, he grinned silently behind the
control lever. Now, if the blizzard would only hold off for an hour or
so....

The crumbling ruins of ancient buildings jutted up from the snow,
monuments of a long-departed civilization. Although never actually
explored, the Ruins were thought to extend for miles south of the
comet crater. More was known about the crater itself since it was only
a few centuries old. Its gigantic explosion had knifed a deep valley
in the ice mountains that was still relatively warm. Lichen grew on
the snow here, bats hung in the caves, and ice-bears had a shorter
hibernation. And _The_ Bear? Any crevice, any ruined building here
might be his lair.

Scanning the drifts below through his windows, Steel looked for
tracks, melting snow or rocket stains. As he looked, he kept an eye on
his auto-sextant. As it clicked off the changing coordinates of his
location, he marked his position on the chart. Vanish he might like
those other five cops who'd gone after The Bear, Steel thought, but not
without a trace--not as long as the little microphone in his helmet was
ready for an instant S.O.S. He'd tested it at the Terminal; Stahl's man
was on the job.

On a little plateau below, he saw a herd of bluish white snow-deer.
They looked up and then stampeded in all directions as he passed over.
Odd he hadn't seen any bears yet.

He was banking low over the half-buried top of a building, squinting
down at the white drifts, when he saw the ball.

"Now how the hell did that happen...."

He circled lower. It was a ball of solid ice. He could see all the way
through it. It was about six feet in diameter, smooth as glass. It was
perfectly round, like a huge green bubble. It lay there on the snow,
sparkling in the dull light. "Funny ice formation--"

Then the ball _moved_.

Watching, Steel almost rammed a building. He pulled up, staring at
the thing. The ball rose slowly, ten feet above the snow. Suspended
by nothing. Then it drifted slowly over the wastes, aimlessly, like a
bubble in the breeze.

Steel followed it, amazed. A strong air current? But it wasn't
affecting the plane. Besides, that chunk of ice probably weighed half a
ton!

The thing finally came to rest against an ice crag near one of the
wrecked buildings. Steel went in close and hovered, examining it with
bewildered eyes. And it was just a ball of ice. That's all it _was_.

Well, lots of queer things happened on the glacier.... Shaking his
head, he started to zoom away.

Then it happened.

More of the ice balls! Hundreds of them! Curving down upon him from
above!

Colorless, unseen until they were upon him, they blocked the plane on
every side.

"What in the--!" Steel banked, twisted the plane into every contortion.
But at every turn the glistening spheres stood before him, closing in
like a net, relentlessly forcing him down.

Fifty feet above the snow, he realized he'd have to ram them. The plane
was strong--maybe he could crash through.

Then, as if anticipating this very thought, the spheres moved in
suddenly against the plane, pressed upon it from above, forced it down.
It was pressed quickly down to the snow.

As it settled into the snow level with the cabin windows, the spheres
slowly melted together to form a rough-hewn roof and walls. The plane
was enclosed completely.

Steel's heart hammered. His breath fogged his helmet. He stared at the
encircling wall, jerked the control lever helplessly. It was only then
he remembered his microphone.

"Six-foot balls of ice!" he cried hoarsely. "Some kind of remote
control! X-26.9-18.7!" He started giving the coordinates of his
location.

"_That's hardly worth while now...._"

Steel shivered even in the electrosuit's warmth. Slowly, he turned
around.

The walls and roof that imprisoned him joined, behind him, the side
of one of the ruined buildings, a crumbling structure of weathered
concrete. The ruin had a door. In the door, an oxygen helmet topping a
snow-white electrosuit, stood a tall thin man. One gloved hand rested
lightly upon the butt of a volt pistol holstered at his hip.

"_Our little Trojan Horse--those balls of ice_," the man continued,
"_have several interesting properties. They're also a very effective
barrier against radio transmission._" His voice was coming into the
plane on the same radio frequency Steel had been trying to send on.

Behind his helmet, the man's face was lean, thin-lipped, deeply
tanned--a tan that wasn't of Earth. That tan had come through a
space ship's viewplate, close in the heat of some foreign sun. He
strode over to the plane and took out his pistol to rap impatiently on
the cabin window.

"_Get out of there! That hunting license on your ship doesn't fool me.
A few minutes ago you passed over a herd of snow-deer without firing a
shot. The Bear will be mighty interested in why you're up here snooping
around...._"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Bear--the word hit Steel like an electric shock. He'd thought he
was on the right track, he'd hoped, but now that it was proved it was
something to think about. He'd found The Bear's hideout and what could
he do about it?

He didn't move at first. He sat there looking at the man through the
window, his mind running hot trying to figure out what to do. In the
middle of the glacier, a six-foot-thick wall in front of him, the man
with the gun outside. _And_ his radio useless--his ace card trumped
with the game just started. It looked like that insurance policy hadn't
been a bad idea....

The fellow banged on the plane with his pistol again. "_Come on! Open
up!_"

Steel opened up. At a wave of the pistol, he stepped out to the frozen
snow. At another wave, he raised his hands. The man stepped around
him, jabbed the gun in his spine and went over him expertly. He found
Steel's pistol and dropped it in the snow. "_Now start walking ahead
of me. And no foolishness._" The pistol shoved Steel ahead through the
ruin's door.

Inside it was just like ten million other surface ruins. You walked
into what had been about the thirtieth floor above the street and found
only drifted snow, shattered walls, a bleached skeleton perhaps. Now,
however, Steel had time for only a glance at the familiar scene when
the pistol moved him on through another door, then another, and this
one, he saw, only faked its weathered appearance. As he went through,
a metal panel slid silently shut behind them and he had his first
look at the tremendous organization he'd been fool enough to tackle
single-handed.

A bright warming glow drifted down from the luminous ceiling. Vent
slits in the floor whispered softly, oxygen pouring in. At the other
end of the room, a split traveling walk slid noiselessly up and down
a shaft past hundreds of offices, workshops, barracks. The place was
as big as the Terminal, as lavishly furnished as Stahl's Vita-Heat
Building. This place explained why The Bear had stolen as much
equipment as money.

He was given little time to marvel here however.

"_Take off your helmet_," the radioed voice behind him ordered. Steel
took it off. When he turned, facing the man and the gun, the man had
removed his own helmet. He was smiling, a thin tight-lipped smile with
no humor in his eyes. "You seem surprised," he said. "You really didn't
expect a bear's den, did you?"

"This is your show," Steel said quietly. "What comes next?" The man
held his helmet in one hand, his pistol in the other--both hands full.
Steel thought of his own helmet, a mighty handy weapon. If he got a
chance--Then suddenly he noticed something else, something that gave
him a chance cops dreamed about. The guy's pistol--the safety was _on_!

"Okay," the man said, "if this deer hunting trip of yours turns out to
be faked, you'll soon learn what's next." A quick motion of the pistol
ordered Steel around on the belt that led down the shaft.

Steel went. As he went, he shot quick glances into the rooms they
passed, waiting for the right moment to whirl around and knock that
pistol away.

The rooms they passed were filled with workers. There were drafting
stalls where scores of men--and women--bent over blueprint tables
and charts. There were plastic workshops where people operated
compression molds and lathes. Where did The Bear get all these
workers! They all couldn't have come from the upper levels! There were
glittering laboratories where white-aproned technicians huddled around
distillation vats and rows of test tubes. Steel thought of that stolen
cargo of tungsoid. Suffo-gas...?

A few yards ahead, on the left, he saw they were approaching an empty
room. On the right, a deserted tunnel branched off into whatever
labyrinth the place possessed. Okay, this was as good as anywhere else!
Wherever he was being taken, they'd be there shortly. Then it might be
too late.

Steel crouched slightly, ready to whirl on the fellow behind him.

Then--

"Step off!"

Behind him, the man's hand suddenly grabbed his shoulder and shoved him
off the belt into the tunnel.

Steel clenched his teeth. He glanced up the empty, tapestry-walled
tunnel ahead. All right then, this was an even better place for it.

But again the man behind him had other plans. "Stop here."

Steel halted, puzzled this time. The tunnel curved on off ahead but
here there was only the red tapestry walls. He felt the pistol again
on his backbone. Then he saw the man's hand reaching out beside him,
lifting the corner of one of the tapestries.

The cloth had covered a window. It looked down into a tremendous
auditorium where hundreds of teen-age boys and girls sat in curved rows
of seats facing a wide curtained stage.

The scene might have been that of any world-wide juvenile delinquency
court. Steel frowned. Dressed in rags, their pinched faces unwashed,
the crowd was a cross-section of undernourished kids from the slum
levels of every underground city on Earth. They were all sizes and
colors and there was excitement in every eye. Steel could hardly
believe it. A prep school for crime.... Steel felt hot rage creeping
over him.

Then on the auditorium's stage, the curtain went up and what he saw
there hit him like a bucket of ice water.

Ten feet high, its shaggy white hair stark against the stage's black
backdrop, Earth's most terrifying creature stood there--an _ice-bear_.

The man behind him dropped the tapestry.

"New recruits." Steel heard him, dazedly. "The Bear's busy now. I hope
you don't mind waiting." The fellow laughed. "Okay, get moving."

       *       *       *       *       *

Steel turned from the covered window as if waking from a nightmare.
He retraced his steps back through the tunnel to the belt as the man
behind him directed. He got on the belt again, the man behind him.

But it didn't make sense! It couldn't be! There was some trick to it!
But, the proof of his own eyes argued, it must have been an ice-bear.
It had been the whole works--red eyes, saber fangs, razor claws.
Rearing up on its hind legs....

Steel shook his head. He couldn't figure this out any more than he'd
been able to figure out the balls of ice that captured him. Then,
suddenly, he remembered something he had been about to do.

He looked ahead down the belt. Nobody there. They had just passed the
last of the rooms alongside. Do it now! If he could get back to that
auditorium--get within gunshot of that bear--

Suddenly he shifted one foot to the belt beside them that was traveling
in the opposite direction. Touching it, his foot stopped him like a
brake and whirled him around rapidly.

The fellow didn't even have time to be surprised. Steel's helmet caught
him in the face. He went down without a sound.

Quickly, Steel snatched up his pistol. Crouching over the man,
he glanced back up the belt. Still nobody in sight. In the other
direction, he saw the belt was carrying them down into some dim-lit
place, a dungeon, perhaps, where the fellow had been taking him. Nobody
in sight there, either. Steel grabbed the man's collar and dragged
him--unconscious or corpse, he neither knew nor cared which--down the
belt into the shadows.

The floor was level here, undoubtedly the very bottom of The Bear's
vast retreat. In the dim light, he saw packing cases stacked along the
wall, a heavy freight belt creaking laboriously down the middle of the
floor. He dragged his ex-guard behind a packing case and then stepped
on the belt that slid back up the shaft. His hand closed fondly upon
the pistol in his pocket. He snapped the safety _off_.

Now, if he could get to that auditorium, get to The Bear....

He didn't run. He forced himself to stand on the belt and let it carry
him up past the crowded workshops and laboratories. He didn't turn his
head. He only glanced into the rooms out of the corner of his eye as
he passed. It was the worst ordeal he could remember in ten years of
detective work. Standing there. Alone. Thousands all around him. His
hand grew sweaty on the pistol in his pocket. Then he was at the tunnel
and nobody had noticed him.

He stepped in with a gasp of relief. The tunnel was also still
deserted. He jumped to the tapestry.

For a moment, he couldn't find the one that hid the window. Then he
found it, lifted it with nervous fingers, and stared once more down
into the auditorium. The kids were just leaving the auditorium, filing
out a door at the rear. The Bear was just leaving the stage.

How was he to get down there? He eyed the wall encircling the
auditorium. It curved, just as the tunnel curved. The tunnel seemed to
be a closed balcony surrounding the place. Somewhere ahead there must
be an exit leading down to the stage. Steel dropped the tapestry and
went down the tunnel, running now.

Sure it was quick! Much quicker than he'd ever hoped! Three hours since
he'd left the Terminal and he'd found The Bear! His fingers curled
around the pistol like a caress.

When he judged he'd half-circled the hall, he slowed down, moving
swiftly but cautiously. Then he came to a belt that cut down to the
left. It must lead to the stage. He stepped on it.

It did. It carried him swiftly to the wings and peering out across the
stage, he saw it standing there in the opposite wings. Still reared
ten feet high on its hind legs, eyes like red-filmed lights. And with
The Bear now was a bull-necked giant whom Steel remembered from police
photographs, a boxer of "fixed match" notoriety--Mike Doyle.

The kids were still straggling from the hall. Steel waited behind the
curtain till the last one left. Then he stepped out and strode quickly
across the stage.

"Don't move, Mike," he ordered the boxer.

The big fellow whirled. The Bear turned.

Steel stopped six feet from them, pistol leveled. "I don't know whether
you're real or not," he said, eyeing the huge animal, "but there's
a good way to find out. If that's just some kind of trick get-up,
whoever's in it better get out fast. I'm going to blast a hole through
it."

"It's Johnny Steel!" The fighter's battered face sagged in
astonishment. "It's the cops!"

The Bear's neon eyes blazed down at Steel, its huge chest rising and
falling slowly, breath hissing in its black nostrils. It was a sight
that few people lived long enough to see close up. An ice-bear could
take a man's head off with one claw. If this one was a fake, Steel
thought, it was a whopping good one. Its dark lips curled back from a
jagged row of yellowed six-inch fangs. From each hairy paw, a rake of
white claws slowly unsheathed. Then something happened that almost made
Steel drop his gun.

"_Yes, I know Mr. Steel_," The Bear said.

It was a terrifying sound, guttural, deep in the great animal's
throat--but it proved something to Steel after its first shock. He'd
heard sound-blending devices before. That was a human voice set in the
growl of a bear. The disguise was perfect but it _was a_ disguise.

This however did nothing to answer the two big questions. How did The
Bear know him? And who was in that disguise? Well, he wasn't going to
be long finding out. "Whoever _you_ are," Steel said, "I'm giving you
five seconds to get out of there." He raised the pistol a fraction of
an inch, years of police training, perfect aim from the hip.

Then suddenly--insanely--the powerful Mike Doyle was diving toward him.

Two thoughts flashed in Steel's head as he saw him coming--Mike had
picked up a mighty strange loyalty lately to risk his life for his
boss--and, Steel knew he couldn't shoot. It would bring the whole gang
here instantly.

He jumped aside. He smashed Mike across the head with his pistol. Mike
sprawled and slid across the stage, to lay still.

Steel whirled back to The Bear. "Are you getting out of there or not?"

There was no answer for a moment. Then The Bear's voice was a deep
whisper. "When I do, Mr. Steel, you're going to be in for a mighty big
surprise...."

"Get out of there!" Steel was in no mood for games.

Deep in the matted hair of The Bear's chest, a small door started
opening, slowly, mechanically. The whole thing was mechanical, arms,
legs, head, everything operated electrically. The door--

The door was the last thing Steel remembered.

A slamming blow. The back of his head. Then blackness....


                                  III

When the blackness vanished, as suddenly as it had come, Steel didn't
open his eyes at first, figuring out what had happened. Mike had
obviously came to and crept up behind him. Rabbit punch--Mike was a
master at that.

When he got this figured out, he started to work on what to do about
it. He lay there motionless, listening. Then he realized he wasn't
lying on the stage floor. He was lying on a bed of some kind. Somewhere
in the distance, he heard the muffled crackling of a video transmitter.
They'd moved him! How long had he been out! His eyes snapped open.

"Well!" a familiar voice said. "Sleeping beauty awakes!" It was the
tall thin-lipped fellow, his original captor. He stood beside the bunk
on which Steel found himself lying. Across the fellow's thin cheek now
was a taped bandage, the result of Steel's helmet-wielding. "I guess
its time you knew my name," he said. "It's Dirk." And as he introduced
himself, his right fist arced across the bunk, contacted Steel's jaw
like a spark-gap and Steel's blackness returned once more....

This time however the blackness vanished in a deluge of ice water.
Steel sat up on the bunk sputtering, shaking his head dazedly.

Dirk threw the empty bucket in the corner and stood before him, hands
on his narrow hips. "If I didn't have orders to take it easy, I'd drown
you."

Steel glared up at him. He had to get a few things straight before he
stuck his neck out again. He turned from the guy in disgust and glanced
about the room.

He was in a small, high-ceilinged place with one door, barred like a
cell. The room seemed to be located deep in the cellar region of The
Bear's fortress. Across the dim corridor outside, he saw huge boxes and
bales stacked against the wall. On the corridor floor, a heavy freight
belt creaked sluggishly past the door. Why, this was the same place
where he'd been before, at the bottom of the main shaft where he'd left
Dirk behind a packing case.

The video transmitter's crackling came from one of the lower rooms
on the shaft. It sounded like a long distance set, one used for
interplanetary work. It hadn't been operating when he'd passed
before. If he'd only known it was there then! A message to Stahl, the
coordinates of this place.... He looked back to Dirk. "And what happens
next?"

"That's for The Bear to decide. When they found me and brought me to, I
just came back to even the score." His thin lips grinned.

Steel looked away again. Who was The Bear? Who was The Bear? The
question started beating in his head like a drum. His fingers tightened
on the metal frame of the bunk. Just when he had him, just when he was
about to find out! He swore to himself that if he got another chance,
he certainly wouldn't waste time talking.

Then, suddenly, the chance was there.

The Bear stood at the door, horrid face bent down, eyes glowing through
the bars. The mechanical voice rumbled, "What does he have to say,
Dirk?"

Dirk eyed Steel with evident anticipation. "Want me to go to work on
him?" He took out his pistol--the one Steel had taken away from him
before, but with the safety _off_ now. He walked over and leveled it
in Steel's face. "Okay," he said, "we know you're working for Hampton
Stahl. Does Stahl suspect this place is near the Jersey Ruins?"

"Certainly," Steel said, ignoring the gun in his face, but meeting
Dirk's eyes. "And Stahl's going to have the police around here combing
every ruin if I'm not back before sundown." If it were only true....

The Bear told Dirk to unlock the door. Dirk unlocked it and the
creature ambled in, stooping under the ceiling. Dirk locked the door
again.

"And what made you think this was the place to look?" The Bear rumbled.

Okay, get ready. Anytime now. The old business.... "Well," Steel said,
bringing his legs in under him, leaning forward slightly on the bunk,
"you ought to know a lot about those little visiting cards of yours."
He pointed toward The Bear's own claws. "Take a look at those fake
claws of yours there...."

The Bear glanced down. Dirk also glanced at The Bear's paws.

Steel sprang at Dirk.

He got his hand on the pistol. At the same time, his knee got in Dirk's
belly. His other hand slammed Dirk back against the wall. Good,
old-fashioned police work. He snatched the pistol from Dirk's hand and
brought it up into Dirk's jaw like a set of brass knuckles.

Then Steel didn't even wait to watch Dirk fall. As he turned from him,
he got the pistol right in his hand and fired.

His first shot blasted The Bear's mechanical right arm off. The next
one got a leg. The next one got the other leg as the thing toppled over.

As it crashed to the floor, Steel jumped back into a corner of the
room, gun on the weird scene on the floor.

Dirk was out cold again. The Bear was a mess. Springs, wires, stuffing,
braces, it floundered there a moment till its motors short-circuited.
Then inside the great mass of white hair there was a frantic scratching
sound.

"Come out of there," Steel said between his teeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door in the bear chest was pushed open. There was coughing like
somebody coming out of a stifling closet.

Then Steel's hand went limp on the pistol.

A cascade of golden hair tumbled out upon the shaggy bear skin. Steel
stared into the furious green eyes of _Lois Harmon_.

Steel couldn't have been more astonished if his own grandmother had
crawled out of the bear skin.

He couldn't believe it at first. He shook his head savagely. Then the
girl got to her feet, shook her bright hair out of her eyes and stood
there with her hands on her trim hips, glaring at him. Smooth as a
pedigreed cat, even in a pair of dingy coveralls.

"It took us six months to build that electric bear!" Her eyes sparked
green fire. "You--you--" Words seemed inadequate. She stepped over and
swung at Steel a baby haymaker.

Steel ducked and caught her hand. And the exertion jarred his brain
back to work like a stopped watch. "Listen, you lynx-eyed hussy!"
He twisted her arm behind her back and drew her to him, twisting
till her struggling stopped. "If I hadn't seen you get out of that
bear skin, I wouldn't have believed it. But, if you're The Bear, you're
a cold-blooded murderer! I'd just as soon shoot you down as not. In
fact I'd rather. I--" Then he heard the racket behind him. He whirled
around, jerking the girl around between him and the door.

Over her shoulder, he saw a score of men run up and halt at the cell
door. They'd heard the shots of course. They took in the situation
instantly. Rifles and pistols leveled on him like a firing squad.

Steel, however, had the girl between him and the guns. He put his own
pistol against the girl's back. "Careful," he said, eyes on the men
outside, "I can get her before you can get me." He'd never used a woman
as a shield before, but to him this yellow-haired witch wasn't even a
woman. She was a killer. He was a cop. If he could hold this advantage,
force his way out of here with her....

The girl held perfectly still, facing her gang. "Range about ten feet,"
she said quietly. And there was something in her almost bored tone,
Steel didn't like.

"No tricks," he said, eyes fixed on the trigger fingers outside. He
tried to get as much of himself behind her as possible, a difficult
thing, however, hiding his shoulders behind not too much woman. "I mean
business."

"So do we," the girl said to him over her shoulder.

As she spoke, Steel heard an angry buzzing sound, like a rattlesnake's
warning. But there was nothing he could do about such a warning.
Instantly, the pistol he was pressing against the girl's back was
snatched from his hand.

Steel was too astonished to move. The pistol flew up toward the
ceiling, halted, and then moved across the room through the bars of the
door. There was nothing holding it up. It moved the way the ice balls
had moved outside. Standing there with his empty hand at the girl's
back, Steel stared at the gun till it was grabbed from the air by one
of the men outside. Then the gang was swarming through the door.

Steel shook his head like a fighter struggling up after the ninth
count. The things that happened in this place were beyond reason. How
could you fight anything in a place like this! Then the girl had jerked
away from him, the mob was upon him, and he was lying on the floor
fighting blindly.

In a moment however it was all over. There were too many of them.

"That's enough! Get him on his feet!"

It was the girl's voice. Dazed and beaten, Steel was yanked up,
somebody holding both arms and an elbow hooked around his neck.

"We've wasted enough time on you now," Lois Harmon said. She stood in
front of him, eyes blazing. "But--it might interest you to know that
everything you've tried to do here hasn't amounted to a damn thing!
You'll have company here shortly. We're kidnapping your fat boss
tonight. We're going to bring Hampton Stahl here and hold him for a
cool million ransom--enough to bankrupt Vita-Heat completely...."

She turned and stalked from the room, leaving Steel staring after her,
the full meaning of her words creeping over him like a chill.

Stahl's ransom--Vita-Heat's bankruptcy! If that happened, the upper
levels wouldn't even benefit by that insurance policy....

       *       *       *       *       *

They gathered up the wrecked mechanical bear. They carried out Dirk who
again had slept through the whole proceedings. They left, locking the
cell door behind them. Steel sat on the bunk, watched them step on the
belt and disappear up the shaft.

_Lois Harmon._ Why, she'd been a plant right under his nose when that
Radium Bank was held up while he was in the building! For years, she'd
been using her innocent-looking beauty and social position to discover
the choicest jobs for her gang.

It all boiled down to this--she was The Bear. The Bear had the most
terrible record in police annals. And with the unbelievable equipment
and advanced science she had amassed here, not only New York but the
whole world was threatened. Those inexplicable balls of ice, the
mechanical bear, the magic that had snatched that pistol out of his
hand--those laboratories and workshops along the shaft seemed capable
of anything. Producing suffo-gas was probably a minor task to them.

And--his own motive for coming here, the reward for the upper levels,
that would be canceled entirely by Stahl's kidnapping tonight. The
pledge he'd made over his dead friend's body couldn't be kept....

Up the shaft, Steel heard the video transmitter start crackling again.
If he could only get to that thing! Stahl's man was still waiting; if
he could only get a message to him!

Steel got up, slamming a heavy fist into his hand. He went over to the
door and grasped the bars, testing their strength. They were solid,
thick as his wrist. The door wouldn't even rattle. He surveyed the room
again. Collapsible bunk, empty bucket, bare walls.

Since The Bear had run riot during the last few years, how many men
had she killed? Bank guards, watchmen, company executives, and Jim,
Dick, Harlan, Bill--he'd known those cops well. And the reprisals
against their families--not one body ever found. It was inconceivable
that such horror had stained Lois Harmon's hands. He thought of those
hands--strong, artistic, neatly manicured. But it wasn't nail polish
that tipped those pretty fingers. It was blood.

Steel sat down heavily on the bunk again. It swayed and threatened to
fold up under him and he got up again to kick its slab-metal headboard
back into place. Even the State Prison gave its condemned men a decent
bunk! He sat down, staring through the barred door at the freight belt
that slid slowly, monotonously along the corridor outside. Probably
stolen from some warehouse, it was a yard-wide belt of heavy plates
none too closely joined together. It creaked mournfully, incessantly.
How could he think with that racket going on! He wondered if he
could stop it--poke something through the door--wedge it between the
plates....

Suddenly this idle thought was a spark that touched off a TNT idea.

He sprang to the door and looked out. As far as he could see up the
shaft, nobody was in sight. There was no sound but the belt's creaking.

He ran back to the bed. Quickly, he yanked the removable headboard off
the frame and then took the footboard off. He lugged the bed frame over
to the door.

Still nobody was in sight. He stared at the belt outside, excitement
burning in his eyes. If it only worked! He lifted the bed frame, stuck
it through the door's bars and held it poised a moment over the moving
freight belt. Then, just at the right moment, as a space between two
of the plates passed, he shoved it home.

He jumped back. Something had to give--belt, bed or door. He barely
breathed. The belt slowed. What if it stopped? But it didn't stop. It
slowed, but still moved inexorably on. What if the frame bent? But it
didn't bend. Its tough metal twisted between the bars, wedging itself
more tightly. Then inch by screeching inch, the bars in the door bent.

With a sound like a pistol shot, one snapped.

Steel shot toward the door like a loosened spring. He squeezed between
the bars and jumped out on the belt. Then he was running up the belt,
ignoring its snail's pace, racing up the shaft toward that video room.

In seconds, he was at the door. He halted, paused there, listening.

"Any contact yet?"

"Not yet...."

Two different voices--there were at least two men in the room. How many
more? But he couldn't risk waiting to find out. Any moment somebody
might appear on the shaft. He threw open the door and stepped in
quickly, ready to tear his way to that video transmitter.

The room was dark, with only a small light in one corner, the glow of
a video screen. In front of it were silhouetted two heads. One had
close-cropped hair; the other wore a skull cap. Chairs pulled up close
to the video, they were so engrossed in their work they didn't even
turn around.

"Shhh!" said the black skull cap.

"We're about to make contact, Mike," said the short haircut.

Steel stood motionless in the darkness. They thought he was Mike, the
boxer! And there were only two men in the room. Marvelous! Just walk up
behind them and bang their heads together. He stepped silently forward.

He was within arm's reach of the two shadowed figures when the video
screen's light suddenly flared. He halted.

"Here she is!" The skull cap bent low over the panel under the screen.
Dim-lit hands played the video's controls like a piano.

Slowly fading in on the screen, Steel saw the familiar green sphere
that was Venus. The picture was swelling in from a video camera on
a space ship somewhere close in the Venusian sector. The picture was
closing up, each ice peak gleaming. Behind the planet was a blurred
background of white lines--he couldn't figure out what they were. And
they certainly didn't matter now. His hands started out for those two
necks in front of him.

Then the video screen stopped him again. Stopped him cold this time. He
stared at the screen incredulously.

The distant camera had turned from the green planet, turning in from
the space ship's window through which it had been shooting, and had
focussed upon the cameraman. It was Dirk. Dirk--tall and thin-lipped,
with bandages on his face--Dirk, _that_ far out in space when not
twenty minutes ago he'd been with Steel in that cell below.

How had he gotten out there? How could any space ship have gotten him
to Venus that fast?

The other watchers in the room seemed to take it for granted, however.
"How'd it go?" the fellow with the skull cap asked.

"No trouble at all," Dirk said from the screen. "Having trouble with
this headache of mine though." He grinned faintly through his bandages.
"Second one that guy's given me today. I must be slipping."

"Well, come on in and have a drink," the short-haired one said. "Looks
like you did a good job on Venus anyhow."

Steel was so bewildered he completely forgot that video worked both
ways. If he could see Dirk, Dirk could see him. This didn't occur to
him till Dirk's grin faded abruptly and he squinted into the room's
darkness from the screen.

"Hey!" Dirk yelled. "Who's that behind you--!" Then, as the two heads
before Steel twisted around, "Look out! It's Steel! He's loose again!"

Steel went into action. His fist drove into the face nearest him--the
short-haired one's. He knocked him over into the video with a punch
that would have knocked out a horse. His left hand caught the other
man's collar. His fist started in again.

But this was a blow that never landed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Steel's arm froze in mid-swing. He stared at the face above the collar
he was holding as if he'd caught a ghost.

He had.

He was staring into the bespectacled eyes of a man who was supposed to
have been dead fifteen long years--Hampton Stahl's dead partner, Lois
Harmon's dead father--_Dr. Albert Harmon_....

Steel stood there holding Dr. Harmon's collar, fist poised, for a long
crazy moment. The skull cap had fallen off, revealing the scientist's
shaggy white hair. From his lined face, his gray eyes looked up at
Steel, troubled but without fear.

"Well?" he said, as if the next move were entirely up to Steel. His
voice was remarkably clear for a man of his age.

"Dr. Harmon...." Steel turned him loose and lowered his hand. "Maybe
you'd better explain a few things, Doctor," he said shakily.

Instead of explaining, however, the old man shot a hand toward the
video table--toward an alarm button.

Steel saw it just in time. He caught the hand and shoved the old man
back into his chair. Then he scooped the volt gun from the other man's
holster. "Dr. Harmon," he said, "finding you here when you're supposed
to have been dead fifteen years explains a lot about this place. The
police are going to be mighty interested." Moving around where he could
keep his eye on the door as well as on the old man, he reached out
and switched the video into the Earth frequency band. Dirk's face had
already disappeared. "The police'll be here in about one hour," Steel
said.

He twirled a dial to the frequency he'd arranged with Stahl's listener
at the Vita-Heat Building. It was hard to believe that a man who had
been so well loved as Dr. Harmon could have traded his reputation for a
criminal career--but here he was. Obviously, he'd faked his own death
and hidden here ever since--another brilliant mind that had followed
pure science too far.

A sleepy-eyed guard's face appeared on the video screen. "Get this
message to Stahl quick!" Steel told him. "Tell him The Bear is his chum
Lois Harmon. Tell him her old man, Dr. Harmon, isn't dead--he's _here_!"

"Wait!" Dr. Harmon jumped up. There was real fear in his eyes now. "You
mustn't do that!"

"Hate your ex-partner to be the first to know?" Steel shoved him back
in his seat. "And write this down," he told the guard. "Coordinates
X-26.9-18.7!" He repeated them as the guard, excited now, raced with
his pencil. "Tell Stahl to get the police up here quick!"

On the screen, the guard's eyes were popping. Steel switched the video
off. The face faded away. "Now," he told the old man, "I guess that not
only gums up your plans to kidnap Hampton Stahl tonight but gums up all
of your plans for a long time to come."

"_I'm not so sure about that, Mr. Steel._"

At the same instant Steel heard these words, he heard an angry buzzing
noise. The pistol in his hand was snatched away.

He whirled to see a hidden panel open in the wall opposite. In the door
stood Lois Harmon. In her hand was the same queer kind of gun that had
taken the pistol away from him in the cell. An ordinary volt rifle with
tiny electrotubes lining the barrel. Behind the girl, a small army of
men filled the passage.

"You're a very bothersome person, Mr. Steel," she said. "We should quit
using a magnoray on you--a volt gun would be better."

Steel stood there holding his numb hand with ice in his heart. The girl
stepped into the room, the men moving in behind her. Then to Steel's
stark staring confusion, he saw that the thin-faced Dirk led them.
Somehow, Dirk had come back from Venus--in _four minutes_.

"Surprised to see me back so soon?" Dirk caught the look on his face.
He laughed. "You didn't know I could get back from Venus even faster
than I could radio a warning back, did you? That's why nobody ever sees
us come and go from here, Flatfoot. We come and go too fast for anybody
to see us. Maybe when you learn more about this outfit, you'll quit
trying to buck it. Let me take care of him," he told the girl. "Our
score's gotten a little uneven again."

"No," she said. "You better take a group up to hold off the police,
Dirk. Just in case they get here before we can get underway."

Dirk frowned and then said, "Okay." Glumly, he led some of the men
toward the shaft.

The girl motioned for one of the others to take Steel. "Bring him along
with us. Come on, Dad." She took her father's arm. "We've got one hour
to make our getaway."

Steel's appointed guardian, built like a bear with the hair shaved
off, took his arm, twisted it behind him and dug a thumb into his
elbow--torturous stop-and-go button. Another had finally brought the
short-haired victim of Steel's punch back on duty. They all followed
the Harmon family through the panel and down a long passageway.


                                  IV

Steel was about ready to give up. He knew he wouldn't be even faintly
surprised at anything else that happened here. He clung to one
thought, a praying hope that the police could get here before whatever
getaway the gang planned. But, with the crushing ice balls and those
weapon-snatchers, Dirk could hold the police off indefinitely, and
with this super-speed the gang apparently had at their disposal--the
speed that could get Dirk back and forth from Venus in a matter of
seconds--they'd be gone long before the police got started.

Steel was so deep in these thoughts, he barely considered what his own
fate might be....

The passage ended in a place that made New York's central power plant
look like a child's play room. Fifty-foot generators towered in the
center of the huge room and along the walls were banks of vacuum tubes
flashing like fireworks. The group halted before a master switch panel
that equalled the Terminal's dispatch board.

"Check the coils, Tom. Get at those insulator switches, Joe." Dr.
Harmon quickly assumed command here. "Lois and I'll finish keying in
the main control group." Along the rows of tubes and moving in and out
of the generator housings, Steel saw other scores of workers, busy as
ants at whatever devil's work this was.

The heavy-muscled guard delegated to remain with Steel took it all
with a yawn, however, leaning against a battery case and eyeing Steel
sleepily. And this was what made Steel want to tear his hair--the utter
confidence of everyone here. The fact that the police were on the way
seemed to bother them only slightly. They seemed quite convinced they
had here the power of a science that need fear nothing the whole world
might send against them.

"I suppose you're making your getaway with some sort of electric
expulsion system," Steel said finally. From combustion power to jet
propulsion--it was just one step further to the ultimate speeds of some
expulsion system. There had always been a basic flaw in vehicles having
to carry their own means of power. "What bothers me though is where the
hell you think you're going." To leave the earth was simple. To have to
stay away, forever, in the molten cold or venomous atmosphere of one of
the other planets--that should be no happy prospect for any fugitive.

"Where we're going?" Steel's guard laughed quickly. "Buddy, that's
something you'll be mighty interested in if Miss Harmon has a mind
to tell you about it." And Steel saw the girl walking toward them,
wiping a smudge of grease from her cheek. "He wants to know where we're
going," the guard grinned as she came up.

She also laughed, a tinkling laugh that Steel hated more because he
would have liked it if she hadn't been who and what she was. "Bring him
along," she told the guard. "Everything seems to be running smoothly.
We'll take a moment off to show him around."

The big fellow gave Steel a shove and followed him and the girl past
the generators toward the far end of the room. When they got there,
Steel saw there wasn't any wall at the room's end. The room ended
abruptly at a two hundred foot drop.

The exit here was only a hole in the wall of a vast cavern, big as a
city block. The place had been hollowed out of the earth's ice crust.
Its slick green walls glistened brightly under thousands of heat arcs
that melted, dried, held back the constantly encroaching cold. On the
floor of the cavern, Steel saw what appeared to be a monster space
ship, a smooth egg-like thing with a small platform on top. So this
was what they planned to escape in! Pile in, melt the ice lid off the
cavern, take off! He didn't see _them_ at first--they were the same
color as the frozen floor. Then he caught sight of the restlessly
moving creatures around the ship.

The cavern's floor was alive with ice-bears, thousands of them,
gigantic males, grizzly females, pink-clawed cubs, a living moat
around the precious ship. Not only had _The_ Bear chained science to
her grim purpose. Here were nature's cruelest watchdogs on guard.

"Okay," Steel said at last. "So I'm impressed. Now will you tell me
where you plan to _go_ in that ship?"

"Ship?" The girl's smile grew perplexed. "What ship?"

Steel motioned toward the egg-shaped thing below. "That. That's the
space ship you plan to get away in, isn't it?"

The girl burst out laughing. Her laughter echoed out across the cavern,
tinkling mirth in a place that Hell couldn't have rivaled in Steel's
eyes. "Well," she said finally, "you might call it something we plan
to escape with. That object is an antigrav projector, Mr. Steel. We'll
escape with it all right, but we're going to take the Earth along with
us...."

During his career as a detective, Steel had heard doomed convicts call
the Devil's curse upon mankind; he'd heard dope-crazed crones in the
upper levels shriek the curse of witches upon their neighbors; he'd
heard cornered gangsters swear dark vengeance--but he'd never before
heard words of such raw horror. And the girl said them as a simple
statement of fact--with a laugh.

"_We're going to take the Earth along with us...._" This could have
been just an insane threat. Cornered, the gang was trying to destroy
the world in its own suicide. But Steel had seen the gang's ultra
science here, he'd seen their banks of electrotubes--they weren't up to
anything as simple as destroying the world by suffo-gas. He couldn't
miss the real meaning of Lois Harmon's words. Taking the Earth with
_them_ meant _moving_ it.

Which was still madness! Still suicide! But they didn't think so. They
were right now making frantic preparations.

"You see," the girl continued, "we've been experimenting exclusively
with gravitational force--the forces of attraction and repulsion that
not only hold the atom together but hold the planets of the Solar
System in balance." Her smile taunted Steel. "Dad finally devised an
ultra-wave screen that could be projected. This screen surrounds the
object toward which it's projected, shields off all the gravitational
forces acting upon it and allows us to play upon it only those forces
we care to use in moving the object from one place to another. You saw
how we encircled you with those ice balls when you first came snooping
around. You saw how we snatched a pistol out of your hand. In a few
minutes, you'll see how we snatch the Earth out of the Solar System."

In a few minutes.... The girl's face blurred before Steel's eyes. Her
words came to him faintly. "But I don't know why I'm telling you all
this. You came here, working for Hampton Stahl's filthy money." Then
raving fury blinded Steel completely.

He whirled. Ran.

He streaked back into the control room. The first weapon he saw was a
wrench. He grabbed it on the run. He sped down the line of electrotubes
along the wall, smashing them as fast as he could swing his arm.

Vaguely, he heard the girl's scream behind him. He heard his guard's
heavy feet pounding after him. Before him, he saw the horde of workers
halt, then swarm toward him. But he kept slashing with his wrench, eyes
squinting against the flying glass, smashing his way up the line of
tubes toward the main control board. When the wrench was snatched away,
he kept tearing at the tubes with his bare hands.

Then he was crushed down by the hundreds of fists and feet that flew at
him from every side.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he was jerked back on his feet, the first thing he saw was Lois
Harmon's face. Her face was streaked with tears. Tears of sheer hatred
glistened in her green eyes. Her lips parted, trembling, but she
couldn't speak. Her tiny fist lashed out, smacking Steel in the face.

She kept pummeling him till somebody pulled her back, fearful
apparently that she might hurt her hands on him. Nobody seemed at all
concerned whether Steel was hurt or not. Quite on the contrary.

"So you're still after Stahl's reward, huh?" Mike, the ex-boxer, swam
toward Steel's blood-filled eyes; he started whipping Steel back and
forth across the face with his open hand. A hand as heavy as a sand
bag. "When they took me into this crew it was the first decent thing
anybody'd ever done for me! They're the first decent folks this damn
world's seen in ten thousand years! And you try to stop what they're
doing!"

"Give him hell, Mike! The voice came to Steel as from a great distance.
But there was something about it.... He recognized it. When Mike's hand
paused, he twisted his head around to look at the man who had spoken.

"No!" He tried to blink the blood out of his eyes. The man was Harlan
Webb. Harlan Webb, one of those five cops who'd gone after The Bear and
never come back! "Harlan!"

"Sure," the man said. "I'm Harlan Webb. We used to be cops together.
But we're on different sides now, Steel."

"But I thought The Bear--"

"Sure, that's what we wanted everybody to think about us--Jim, Dick,
Bill, the other cops who disappeared, they're up there with Dirk
guarding the entrance now. That's what we wanted everybody to think
happened to our families when they were brought here too. That's the
only way Dr. Harmon could keep what he was doing secret."

"You mean The Bear didn't--"

"Didn't kill them? Is that what you mean!" This was Lois Harmon again.
"We didn't kill _you_, did we--when we certainly should have." She
pointed about the room. "There's the vice-president of Uranium, Inc.
He's been an engineer with us ever since he 'disappeared'. There's
the crew and passengers of that space liner that lost its cargo last
night." She shook her head furiously. "Our men have killed only as the
last possible resort. That rule has been as important as our secret."

"Hush! Hush!" This was Dr. Harmon, holding up his hands, finally making
himself heard. His eyes were grim behind his spectacles. "We haven't
time for this now! This man has wrecked our remote control up here but
we can still operate from the projector itself." He brushed his shaggy
white hair from his eyes. "We must hurry before the police get here."

"_But, my long-departed friend, the police aren't coming...._"

Every eye turned from Steel to the door leading in from the passage.
Steel craned to stare over the shoulders of the men who held him.

That great shadow in the doorway was the bulk of Hampton Stahl.

"I thought I had finished with your interference for good, Dr. Harmon,
when I arranged that little laboratory explosion fifteen years ago,"
Stahl said. "I see now, however, that I'll have to destroy you and your
work all over again."

Swiftly, when the shock of his appearance died, the men around Steel
surged toward Stahl in one mass. And, just as swiftly, when they came
at him, Stahl stepped aside, into the room, and twenty of his guards
pushed through the door.

They carried volt rifles. Stahl waved his fat hand.

The guards fired straight into the unarmed group coming at them, mowing
them down like insects. When the rifles lowered again, a full hundred
charred forms writhed on the floor, then quickly lay still. Mike,
Harlan Webb, the rest....

"After they've shown us around," Stahl said when the volt rifle
reverberations died, "you can do away with all the rest of them." Then
his thick lips twisted into a smile. "Including Mr. Steel there. It
will relieve me of an embarrassing contract."

At Stahl's words now, Steel realized he was standing there alone. Most
of the men who had surrounded him had left to go for Stahl. Most of
these were now lying in black heaps on the floor. The rest stood among
the charred bodies, staring helplessly as Stahl's guards advanced
across the room, ready for the slightest excuse to use their rifles
again. The terrible silence of their advance was broken only when Lois
Harmon sobbed, buried her golden head in her father's arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

Steel stood there alone, realizing just how much alone he was. He'd
thrown a wrench into the Harmon gang's plans, for which they'd been in
the act of doing away with him. Then his rescuers--whom he'd called
here himself--had turned out to be an equal menace, bringing the same
fate that they'd saved him from. He'd jumped out of The Bear's frying
pan into the shortly forthcoming fire of Stahl's volt rifles....

"When I received your message and learned who The Bear was," the fat
man smiled, halting before Steel, "I preferred not to bother the police
with what was really a private matter between Dr. Harmon and myself."

"Private matter!" Dr. Harmon's cold eyes were frightening behind his
spectacles. One hand soothed his daughter's head but the other was
knotted, white-knuckled at his side. "Yes, you always did look upon my
experiments as a private matter. You didn't care whether they benefited
mankind or not--if they interfered with your vita-lamp profits, you
tried to crush them."

"And crush them I shall," Stahl replied easily, turning to the old
man. "When we sighted the coordinate location Mr. Steel so kindly sent
us, we blasted the whole area immediately. We blasted the entrance to
your hideout before your men had time to use any trick weapons you've
developed." Which had been the end of Dirk and the men who'd been up
there with him, Steel thought. "At this moment," Stahl continued,
waving toward the door through which he'd entered, "others of my guards
are searing every room in the place. When we leave here there won't
be the slightest sign that this place ever existed. The world will
continue to think Dr. Harmon died fifteen years ago."

The guards herded the remaining few of Dr. Harmon's men into a corner.

"Now," the fat man told Dr. Harmon, "if you'll kindly lead us on a
little tour of your power plant here, you'll have exactly that much
longer to live."

The old man hesitated a moment. Then he lifted his white head, took his
daughter's hand and moved slowly ahead past the generator houses. One
of the guards shoved Steel after them and the procession started down
the long room.

"On the way here," Stahl said chattily to the old man and the girl, "we
received a telenews report that a freight liner had just discovered
something rather startling in the Venusian space sector. Earth
scientists are in a dither." He laughed. "The planet Venus seems to
have disappeared...."

Steel's eyes widened. He recalled Dr. Harmon's and Dirk's mysterious
doings in the video room.

"Perhaps you can explain what happened, Doctor," Stahl said.

"If you wish," the old man answered finally. He walked straight ahead,
chin high, voice mechanical and cold. "Venus was in the way of Earth's
planned trajectory from the Solar System. We simply moved it--as we've
been moving smaller asteroids farther out in space for months. Venus
was the last object that had to be cleared from Earth's path to Sun
K-16."

"So that's where you planned to take it," Stahl said with some
surprise. He laughed. "Who was it that said 'Give me a lever and I'll
move the Earth'? So you found it! And I'm quite sure you could have
accomplished it without mishap too, Doctor. If you remember, I worked
out the preliminary planning with you myself."

"Until you realized what would happen to your vita-lamp monopoly if the
Earth had a warm sun again!"

Stahl laughed again, agreeably. Steel however could barely keep his
mouth from hanging open. He didn't know what to believe any more. Those
blurred white lines behind Venus' picture on the video screen--had they
been star trails? A background that Venus was moving past so fast even
the video camera's ultra speed couldn't catch it? Was it possible Venus
_had_ been moved and that the Earth could _have_ been moved? These men
talked about moving planets as if they'd been moving a house on log
rollers. Steel was bewildered.

"Well," Stahl said, "now I'll have your formula for the projector and
vita-lamps will become only a sideline. I'll move another planet to Sun
K-16--Jupiter, perhaps. When I move it to a livable climate its real
estate prices will be something unimaginable. I suppose you applied the
principle to space ships long ago."

"They were our first experiments," Dr. Harmon told him. "We have a
small fleet in stalls near the surface. We found our only problem was
keeping their speed down--to keep them from burning by air friction
in taking off and landing." For some reason now as they went down
the room, Dr. Harmon went into greater detail in explaining whatever
questions Stahl put to him. He was fighting for time, Steel decided,
hoping that _something_ would happen, anything. Steel also decided it
was high time he started hoping that too. He was in for the killing now
himself.

When explanations had finished they had reached the end of the room and
now stopped at the brink of the vast bear-pit.

"And here it is," Dr. Harmon said wearily. "The projector."

       *       *       *       *       *

The immensity of the place, the terrible creatures staring up at them,
the mysterious machine majestically alone down there--all combined to
silence even Stahl a moment. His guards crowded forward, exclaiming to
each other and staring into the pit. They did not, however, let their
curiosity distract the vigilance of their rifles. The guns remained
snug against their prisoners' backs.

"And how did you get the manpower to build all this?" the fat man
finally turned back to Dr. Harmon.

"They were easy to find," the old man said simply. He seemed to stare
through Stahl--perhaps at the years he had put into this work and its
miserable failure. "We found followers everywhere--our workers came
from the slums of every city on Earth as well as from the highest
society. Most of those we were forced to capture also eventually
volunteered to work with us. Those who didn't volunteer we kept in very
comfortable quarters, knowing that they--and the world--would be free
very soon. We even brought poverty-stricken children here. Helping us
gave them their only chance for education." Steel remembered his first
sight of The Bear in that auditorium crowded with tenement kids. "The
Bear idea was only an advertising trick my daughter thought of," Dr.
Harmon said. "It awed the common man and terrified--_you_." His eyes
snapped back into focus on Stahl's face.

"And now it's all turned out to my profit," Stahl said. "So suppose we
go down and have a look at the projector. You have a way of getting
down there, certainly."

Steel found himself also wondering how they _could_ get down there.
He looked upon it with little surprise however, only one more
breath-taking gadget, when Dr. Harmon pressed a button on the nearby
wall and a low-railed platform shot up from the top of the machine
below. It halted at their feet. Where it had been on the machine below,
there was now an open port with a circular stair leading inside,
discernible in the distance.

"Very tricky," Stahl said. "But just to make sure this lift doesn't
suffer any mishap on the way down, Doctor, I think you better stay up
here and operate it while your daughter goes down with me."

Steel's eyes were on the girl's face as she looked at her father. Then
she quickly rushed into his arms. The sight made Steel wince. The old
man stroked her golden hair and whispered in her ear. Steel started
to turn away. Then something flashed, the slightest glint in that icy
place where the very walls glinted--he caught a glimpse of what it was,
then instantly turned away, afraid somebody else might have seen.

He searched the guards' faces around him and Stahl's face, but they
hadn't seen. They hadn't seen Dr. Harmon quickly slip a knife in his
daughter's hand.

Steel recognized it for what it was, a thing common in police circles,
a tiny knife, small enough to hide in one hand. When a button was
pressed on its side a six-inch blade licked out like a watch spring
uncoiling.

"The rest of you men stay up here with the good doctor," Stahl said.
"Hans, you and Barge come down with me and our lovely guide." The fat
man stepped out on the disk-like lift. He caught the girl's arm and
jerked her after him.

In the next three seconds, the guards stepped on the lift with
them--and Steel remembered the pledge that had brought him here, Floyd
lying there dead, the dreary upper levels around that deserted building.

Stahl said, "Okay, let us down, Doctor"--and Steel remembered the
confidence that even Dr. Harmon's deadly enemy, Stahl, had had in the
Earth-moving venture's safety. Floyd too, working for The Bear, had
believed in it enough to die for it. It was the one chance to bring
warmth to the Earth again, banish completely such things as the upper
levels!

Dr. Harmon pressed the button and the lift started down--and Steel
remembered the unwavering courage in Lois Harmon's eyes when her father
had slipped her that knife.

In those three seconds, everything that had happened flashed through
Steel's mind, and everything that _could_ happen. In those three
seconds he decided what he _wanted_ to happen.

He jumped.

       *       *       *       *       *

The lift was moving down swiftly. It was going down just a trifle
slower than Steel fell. There was little jolt when he landed.

He knocked one of the guards' rifles sailing immediately. The other
whirled upon him, rifle raised. But the platform was too small for a
rifle. It worked to the guard's disadvantage. Steel grabbed the barrel.
A lever. With it, he wrenched the fellow over the side.

He caught a glimpse of Lois Harmon clinging to the hand rail, one hand
at her trembling lips, her green eyes huge. Then Stahl's bulk loomed
before him and the other guard came in behind him, while from above a
volt gun spurted its molten stream past his head.

The guard got his elbow around Steel's neck. Stahl raised both huge
hands and brought them down at his face like twin sledge hammers.
Steel dropped his weight in the guard's arms, twisted his head, caught
Stahl's blow on his shoulder. Then the arm around his neck was blinding
him, cutting off his air. A red film swam before his eyes. His ears
roared. He felt Stahl's blows numbly against his face. Going down.
Going down.

It was more instinct than anything else that made him grip the guard's
shirt behind him. It was many a police lesson in roughhouse that
doubled Steel forward and arched his back, while he jerked at the
guard's shirt with his last strength. He yanked the guard off his feet
and flung him up and out over the railing.

When the guard's scream died away, Steel found himself on the floor
of the platform, Stahl on top of him, thick fingers grappling for his
throat. The platform had stopped falling. It rested at the bottom of
the cavern.

"I'll get him! I'll get him!" screamed Lois, leaping toward Stahl,
deadly little knife upraised.

[Illustration: _"I'll get him! I'll get him!" screamed Lois._]

Steel fished his legs around and kicked her back against the railing.
"No!" he yelled. "Get the projector working!" Dr. Harmon had said: _We
can still operate from the projector itself...._

The girl turned and fled down the circular stairs, to disappear inside
the vast machine.

But Stahl found his opening. He got a grip on Steel's right arm,
twisted it behind him and then twisted it back like a bending stick.
Steel rolled to keep it from breaking. And found himself staring over
the platform's edge into a writhing sea of shaggy hair, upturned
blazing eyes, dripping jaws--the bears--ten feet below.

Stahl strained at his arm, shoving with his knees, breath heavy in
Steel's ear. Steel's right leg slid over the edge.

Although they couldn't shoot for fear of hitting Stahl now, the sound
of gunfire continued from above. It was the requiem for those who
remained of the Harmon gang, Steel thought wildly--and for Dr. Harmon.

Steel tried to get a grip on the railing post. The fat man scraped his
fingers away. He clawed at the platform floor. But he couldn't stop his
sliding. He cursed and prayed and tried to cling to the floor by the
sheer friction of his body. Stahl was shoving too hard. Steel's body
slid over the side, one last arm hooked in the railing.

The fat man struggled up and kicked at the arm. Then, more than the
kick on his arm, Steel felt a sickening shudder pulse through his
body--through the platform--through the world....

Stahl felt it, too. His foot hesitated in the next kick. His eyes
glaring down at Steel suddenly widened.

The moment was all Steel needed. He jerked himself back up on the
platform, rolled and struggled to his knees. Then he saw Stahl wasn't
even playing any more. The fat man was staring up at the roof of the
cavern as if he was having an apoplectic stroke. It was only then that
Steel realized the blinding light in his own eyes.

He squinted up at the strange brightness and saw at the distant
top of the cavern, like a huge skylight above them, a great white
square, blazing with a light that no artificial fluorescence had ever
approached. A light Earth had forgotten.

"The sun...."

Stahl's voice was a whisper. Then it sirened into a scream. "Sun K-16!
They've done it! They've done it!" His eyes shot back to Steel, like a
wild beast's. "But you'll never have it!" he shrieked. His hands shot
out at Steel like talons.

This time Steel was prepared. His right fist came up and across Stahl's
thick chin. The fat man toppled backward, tottered against the railing,
and then went over.

At that moment, Lois Harmon ran up the ladder. Steel caught her and
pressed her face against his chest. "Don't look."

But he looked. He saw Stahl ride for an instant on the shaggy white sea
below, beat with his hands frenziedly against the mass of animals under
him, and then slip down into the mass like a pig slipping into a meat
grinder.

His scream was an era dying....

       *       *       *       *       *

The bright sunlight playing across the shimmering ice waste, the young
rivers of melting snow--the telenews cameras ate it up.

The telenews men didn't seem to care whether they had an audience or
not. They had the video cameras set up on the sun-drenched Terminal
roofs, sending the picture to receiving sets that probably hadn't
a single watcher throughout the world. The population of Earth had
swarmed to the surface _en masse_ and tears of thanksgiving mingled
with the melting snow.

"Nobody seems to care that the lower levels have already filled with
water," the announcer chattered hysterically into his portable mike.
"Nobody seems to care _how_ this thing happened. The only thing that
matters is that it _did_ happen--the greatest thing that _ever_
happened!"

"And they'll never know how it happened," Lois Harmon said. "Dad would
have wanted it that way." She and Steel sat in their plane on the
Terminal roof, listening to the announcer, watching the joyful mob that
stretched across the ice as far as they could see.

"Yeah," Steel said quietly, "every clue to the old world will be washed
away clean. Everything will begin new." And, he thought, Floyd would
also have wanted it that way. This was what he'd died for. Even the
memory of that upper level chill would soon be gone. He watched a
group of mothers holding their sickly white babies up to the warmth,
a horde of small boys and girls whose cheeks already glowed with the
strength of a new race.

"Everything new ..." the girl repeated. She turned, green eyes meeting
Steel's, then dropped her golden head against his shoulder.

Steel grinned as he put his arm around her. "Looks like I'd better hunt
another job, too," he said. "I guess I'm a pretty bum detective when
the world gets stolen right under my nose."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EARTH IS MISSING! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
