ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Chicken Farm, by Ross Rocklynne

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Chicken Farm

Author: Ross Rocklynne

Release Date: February 07, 2021 [eBook #64481]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHICKEN FARM ***




                             CHICKEN FARM

                           By ROSS ROCKLYNNE

        _Harvey was a most unusual little man. A Cosmos-minded
        man with great singleness of purpose. He could discover
        asteroid-juncture faults with the greatest of ease, and
          "perp" planets, too.... But could he find Anna from
          Oregon who doubted his greatest discovery of all?_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories March 1953.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Just in from a long haul searching for asteroid juncture points,
Harvey entered the lobby of the Hotel de Mars and went straight to the
registration desk. The woman at the desk, who was blond, and blue-eyed,
and inclining to chubbiness, looked at him, smiled. The smile was of
such quality that Harvey's singed brown face set into a mold of utter
attention.

Finally he let out his breath.

"I want a room," said he, "on the Deimos side."

He attentively studied the cheerful face while she made out slips,
accepted his signature, accepted his money. After he had the key, after
he had his change, after everything was taken care of, he still stood
there. The woman smiled into his seamed eyes.

"Was there something else?"

Harvey said, noting the emptiness of her chubby ring-finger, "Ma'am,
I'm an abrupt, outspoken man. I have no sense of humor. Some people
like me; some people don't. I make my living moving around the solar
system. I've never been rich, but I never have any trouble making
money, as much as I want. Now what was your question again?"

Her fingers slowly caressed a yellow pencil.

Her smile was a little strained. She said cautiously, "I thought you
wanted something else. What you want to do is talk, isn't it? You're in
from a long space-haul, it's lonely out there, men get so they have to
talk to a woman, don't they? So you'd like to take me out to dinner?
And take me to a show? And take me up to your room to watch Deimos,
which happens to shine only into the windows of your room?"

He looked at her.

"I have no sense of humor," he repeated with great patience. "As you
grow to know me, you will understand that. It will be no deterrent to
our romance, however; I have other qualities."

"Romance?"

"Yes. What I want is you. I'm an abrupt man. My mind makes itself up
quickly. In space, one must learn to make quick decisions. That's what
I want. You. We'll discuss this at dinner. Please be ready."

He went up to his room, refusing to let the bell hop touch his scarred
suitcase. A little man. A man with great singleness of purpose. The
blond woman, who was nice, and blue-eyed, and inclining to chubbiness,
looked after him blinking. She took care of the next guest. She thought
deeply. She decided to go to dinner with the lost, lonely man from
outer space.

They ate in the main dining room of the Hotel de Mars (the 'de' being
rather a fancy touch.) He did not talk. He ate. Great quantities of
Martian food with strange, exotic names. He ordered straight shots of
whiskey afterward. Then he talked.

"Now, we were discussing something of importance at the registration
desk, ma'am. What was it?"

"Me."

"Fine. I'm glad you remember."

She burst into laughter, then stifled the laugh in horror.

He shook his brown, leathery head. "Laugh, please. Laugh as much as
you please. I have no sense of humor, but I think other people should
have the opportunity of exercising theirs. I often say things which
are funny to others. As for myself, I never laugh. This you will
become accustomed to. I'll order you some champagne. Do you enjoy
Terra-Frenault '97?"

"Love it," she said, having never had any. She leaned forward, her eyes
sparkling. "I'm enjoying myself so much. Everything is so unorthodox. I
was brought up in Oregon, on my father's chicken ranch. The town people
were so orthodox. I came to Mars all alone just to get away from people
orthodox. Now that I've become unorthodox myself, one of these days I'm
going back to Oregon and teach them to be unorthodox. And of course
I'll own a chicken ranch."

He gulped whiskey. He looked at her searchingly from steel-colored eyes
that had leather seams around them. "You like chickens?"

"Plymouth Rocks," she said. "They're the most beautiful bird alive.
I'll raise Plymouth Rocks."

"Fine," he said. "I'm glad to know this. However, drop the idea of
going back to Oregon. We'll be heading for the outer spaces, ma'am."

"Is this why I'm having dinner with you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Yes. To let you know my intentions." He called for the check. "I'm
forty years old, ma'am. The time has come to make a permanent home for
myself, with a wife and children. For several days I've toyed with the
idea of falling in love with someone. What's your astrological sign?"

"Taurus." She looked at him over the champagne, her face wide with a
smile that had an almost irrepressible giggle behind it.

"Fine, fine." He threw money on the table and got up. "I'm Pisces.
Pisces and Taurus get along very well. This is the reason I fell in
love with you, ma'am. What was your name?"

"I want to finish my champagne," she protested, not getting up. "My
name is Anna Christina Morley."

He sat down. "Forgive me. I'm an abrupt man. I do things and then
they're over. I never linger. As you grow to know me, this will become
apparent. But finish your champagne. My kind of woman always speaks
her mind. So your name is Anna Christina Morley. A very unusual name.
A numerological breakdown would no doubt show you to be a strong, a
firm, an idealistic woman. I am a fortunate man. Have you finished your
champagne?"

"I guess so," she sighed. She got up and took her cape that had the
twinkling little bells on it, and that changed color every five minutes
on the second, and that told time. "Where are we going?"

"I'll take you back to your room," he said, "and say good night."

She was beautiful in the overhead sparkling lights of the dining room.
Something caught her sharply in the solar plexus as he spoke.

"Why?" she said forlornly.

His singed eyebrows came up. "Why? My purpose is accomplished. You know
my intentions. Now I must go out and prepare. I'll be leaving for outer
space within the hour. I'll be back in ten months."

He took her to the door of her room. "Good night, Anna," he said.

She stopped him. Her heart was beating too hard. There was in her a
sharp emptiness, a terrific sense of frustration. "Kiss me," she said
wearily. "You said you were in love with me, so we might as well get
that much acquainted."

"I am in love with you," he said. He immediately took her into his
arms, kissing her long and hard. Then he released her, looking
strangely into her eyes. "Anna," he said, "I _shall_ be back in ten
months. I know you'll be here." He went down the stairs. She went into
her room. She sat on the edge of the bed. Then she threw herself on the
bed and cried, hard, angry sobs. Why had she allowed him to ruin what
could have been such a splendid evening? She kicked her shoes off. They
hit the wall with two walloping thumps. She lay on her back and laughed
at the ceiling with tears coming out of her eyes. What an evening. An
evening as strange, as abortive, as cruel as the man who had cut it off
so suddenly.

Her eyes snapped open then. She felt something happen inside her, a
longing as wide and deep as black space. "Oh no," she said in a tone
that was low and explosive. She slowly turned on her side, sniffling.

She couldn't help it. He was nothing, but he was incredible. Ten
months....

       *       *       *       *       *

For years the Asteroid Association had offered a flat rate of one
thousand credits to anybody who gave them the location of genuine
asteroid-juncture faults. They were engaged in a strictly scientific
and commercially useless attempt to show that the asteroids once
comprised a large planet between Mars and Jupiter. They needed
evidences of lines of fracture showing where two separated asteroids
once had been joined; the complete picture would finally give them a
complete planet. Harvey had found fifteen such points. The money gave
him leeway to pursue other activities.

Forty million miles above the plane of the ecliptic moved his small
ship.

He was not looking for juncture points now. He was looking for a
particular kind of planet, one, moreover, which had never been
discovered before. Therefore he was hunting for a "perp" planet.

He searched two months. That most celestial bodies within the Solar
System already had been discovered did not deter him. He found his
planet and came to a landing. He got into his pressure suit, lugging
his gravitic equipment with him. He immediately started taking
readings.

The gravity was shallow, less than one-tenth of a gee. Far too little.
There was no atmosphere. The ground was frozen, but upon submitting it
to flame it gave off the lines characteristic of phosphorus, nitrogen,
hydrogen. That pleased him. He made other readings, then he went into
his ship and wrote in his diary:

    There are many drawbacks. The planet is only 483 miles in diameter.
    It, at present, has no atmosphere. Being frozen, it will have to
    be thawed. Obviously, it cannot, at present, support Plymouth Rock
    chickens, much less human beings. I must now determine velocity,
    orbit, year, and day.

A month later he wrote in his diary:

    Money will be needed. Much more than can be supplied by discovering
    juncture faults. Plymouth Rock chickens need worms; worms perhaps
    need Plymouth Rock chickens. One finds it necessary to grow corn
    also. Gravity lugs must be installed deep in the ground. Gravity
    lugs are expensive. An interesting fact is that in four weeks this
    planet will intersect the plane of the ecliptic. Something can be
    done with this information.

Harvey determined the major and minor apices of the "perp" planet. He
determined its point of intersection with the plane of the ecliptic.
Then he went to the planet Earth, and came into a sleek landing at the
New York spaceport. He went to the information window, asking for and
receiving the time-schedules of all lines sending freight or passenger
ships between the planets. He studied them for a week in his hotel
room. He went back to the information desk to confirm his findings.

The clerk was most helpful. Yes, the liner _Hermes_ of the firm of
Gramenger & Lewis would leave Venus at 7:17 Solar Standard time on a
Wednesday three weeks from now bound for Titan of Saturn. The space
coordinates Harvey had figured out were correct. Yes, the shipping
firm of Gramenger & Lewis would not dare change the trajectory or the
schedule on as little as three weeks notice. To do so would involve
loss of prestige as well as of millions of dollars in contracts and
passenger fees. Harvey thanked him and went to the Claims Registration
Office on Luna.

"I wish," he told the official, "to register prior discovery and
ownership of a planet whose orbit lies perpendicular to the plane of
the ecliptic."

The official doubted very much that any "perp" planets remained to be
discovered, telling Harvey they were useless anyway. Harvey did not
laugh.

       *       *       *       *       *

The official spent an hour poring over catalogues, showing increasing
amazement. Finally he said, "You're in luck!"

At the end of an hour he had found Harvey's planet in numerous
photographs, and had taken readings on the orbit which exactly
coincided with Harvey's figures. He made out the necessary papers. Now
Harvey owned a planet.

Harvey said, "I'm an abrupt man, sir. I speak my mind. I have no sense
of humor, as you must realize by now. I want a tankful of fuel on
credit."

The official shook his head. "I can't do it. I have no authority to
give credit. This is the United States government you're talking to."
He laughed.

Harvey did not laugh. "I am asking for personal credit."

"On what security?"

Harvey thought. "On no security. I am an honest man. My word is good
enough. However, there will be a bonus when the loan is returned.
Before Thanksgiving you will be in receipt of one dozen succulent,
tender, meaty Plymouth Rock chickens as large as turkeys. May I ask
what your astrological sign is?"

The official leaned back staring, and making a soundless whistle. He
couldn't laugh. This man had no sense of humor. He said, "Well, I was
born August 26--"

"Fine, fine. A Virgo. You and I can do business, sir. Pisces and Virgo
get along. I shall be leaving at 5:00 SST. I shall leave my vessel in
your care. Good evening." He slept untroubled at the hotel connected
with the Claims Office, and in the morning took off. The meter reading,
which he did not even trouble to inspect, read Full.

He went to Venus, taking two weeks to get there. On the way he passed
his planet which he was naming Plymouth, but did not trouble to open
the port to look at it. Not much could have occurred to misplace it. On
Venus, he docked his ship at the central spaceport, and went by tube
to Venus Port. Five minutes after getting there he was talking to the
secretary in the outer office of the firm of Gramenger & Lewis. At
first the secretary did not want to admit him to see Mr. Gramenger, but
Harvey said:

"May I have your name, please?"

She gave it. He sat down with pencil and paper, and after five minutes
looked up with a pleased smile. "Numerologically," he said, "we find
a coincidence here. We are both 22's. This is an exceptionally strong
number, denoting trust, idealism, and self-mastery. What is your
astrological sign?"

"Pisces."

"Pisces! I, too, am a Pisces."

She gave him a look. "Pisces people are not noted for their diplomacy,
or for subtlety. You're under the wrong sign."

He frowned. "This I do not understand."

She smiled. "Never mind. You can see Mr. Gramenger in about five
minutes."

"Thank you. Perhaps we can share dinner this evening."

"Well--"

"I have no money, you understand."

Her mouth fell open. She burst into laughter, and then clapped her hand
over her mouth when she saw he was dead serious. She said quickly, "All
right. I'll take you to dinner. I guess we poor fish have to stick
together."

"Thank you," he said. "We can go to the Milo Club. In return for the
favor, I can promise you that before Thanksgiving you will receive
three large Plymouth Rock chickens of unusual tenderness and flavor."
He picked up a magazine and read while waiting.

Gramenger, when he saw Harvey, leaned back in his chair scrubbing a
meaty chin. He remarked he was pleased to meet Harvey, but he couldn't
place the name, and did not understand how Harvey had got into the
office without a prior appointment. Harvey said these details did
not matter, but that what did matter was that he was here to make a
financial settlement with the firm rather than, later on, to bring suit
against the firm for a sum of one million dollars.

Gramenger's eyebrows went up. He smiled faintly, letting his glance
rove over Harvey's stained leather space jacket and spotted denims.

"I'm sure I'd like to hear your story," he said. "I may as well inform
you, however, that any claims against the company must be laid before
the legal department."

Harvey stood at the desk looking down.

"I'm an abrupt man, sir," he said. "I do things quickly, and then
they're over. I have no liking for red tape or legal maneuvers. If my
business is not settled before I leave this office within the next
hour, you may expect to go to court and lose much more than the meager
damages settlement I am asking."

"Damages for what?" Gramenger frowned irritably. His chair came down
with a bang. "If you think you can pull a fast one with the firm of
Gramenger & Lewis--"

Harvey broke in. He told Gramenger about his planet Plymouth. He showed
his papers of ownership. He described the orbit. He showed where the
planet would intersect the plane of the ecliptic in one week, seven
hours, twenty-eight minutes, and some seconds. He showed the official
seal from the Claims Office proving that this was so.

"Your liner _Hermes_," he said, "will intersect the orbit of the planet
Plymouth some 17,000 miles from Plymouth. The atomic wash from the
_Hermes'_ drivers will infect space for 100,000 miles around; this is
standard knowledge and has been proved in court. Legal precedent has
also established that nucleonic, gravitonic, or positronic infection
of planetary farmlands constitutes a serious misdemeanor for which
damages, both punitive and otherwise, may be sought."

Gramenger grinned. "Let me see those papers." He looked them over,
chuckling. Once he looked up.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Planetary farmlands, huh? And this planet is a hunk of rock out in
space. Frozen. Only 483 miles in diameter. No atmosphere." He scooped
up the interoffice 'phone. "Phil!" he said. "Get up here. I want you to
prove something to a loco joking yokel I've got up here in the office."
He hung up. "That's my lawyer," he said, leaning back and folding his
hands over his capacious stomach. "Too bad. Maybe you'll learn a lesson
from this."

"May I ask what your birthday is?" Harvey asked.

Gramenger told him. Harvey's jaw came out. "Cancer. Yes, I can see we
will have to fight this out."

The lawyer came in. He smiled a little when Gramenger explained. He
looked at the papers. He shook a sleek head. He handed the papers to
Harvey.

"You don't stand a chance, man. Have you looked into the definition of
what constitutes planetary farmlands?"

"What is the definition?" said Harvey.

"Planetary farmlands, legally and simply, are the natural surface or
portions of the surface of a planet of any size which could support
vegetative growths of any kind. Your mistake here is that this
planetoid, and every other such a body that has been discovered, _does
not have a soil surface_. Ergo, it cannot support plant life."

"If it _did_ have a soil surface," Harvey said.

The lawyer looked at him whimsically. "It couldn't," he said, in what
was meant as a kindly tone. "These odd-sized bodies that wander through
space have invariably been discovered to be crystallized, meteoric,
inorganic materials from top to bottom."

"But if it _did_ have soil, natural, original surface soil."

The lawyer spread his hands, shrugging. "It can't be. But if it were,
naturally, the company would--"

"Change the _Hermes'_ trajectory?" Harvey said.

Gramenger glared. "Gramenger & Lewis has changed neither a schedule nor
a trajectory in its career as the oldest shipping concern in the Solar
System," he snapped.

"Well," said Harvey, "what _would_ you do if it were proved that
Plymouth has a natural soil surface?" He took a flat paper bag out of
his pocket and emptied a pile of dirt onto Gramenger's desk.

The lawyer and Gramenger looked at the pile of dirt. Both men grew a
little pale.

The lawyer licked his lips. "If you show that that dirt comes from
Plymouth," he said, "Gramenger & Lewis will stand the expense of
transforming the planetoid into a free-mover."

"This means," said Harvey, "that you would be forced to install
gravitic machinery under Plymouth's surface, including plus and minus
grids and controls that would make it possible to move the planetoid
out of the _Hermes'_ way."

"Yes...."

"You would also install atmosphere-making machinery."

"If the claimant asked for it, it would be a simple matter."

"You would also provide a transmutator as an adjunct to the
atmosphere-machine so that water could be provided?"

Gramenger was being very silent and small behind the desk.
Unconsciously, he nodded his head. The lawyer, his amiable manner
somewhat shattered, nodded slowly. "These and other things could be
done and would be done in a hurry."

"Also," persisted Harvey, "there would be an inconsequential cash
settlement of perhaps ten thousand code credits?"

The lawyer was silent. He looked at Gramenger. Gramenger said slowly,
"That is a small matter, and would be agreed to. But there is a large
matter, and that is to prove that this soil comes from Plymouth. For my
money, it's still a hunk of rock--"

Harvey stopped him. He explained briefly his experience in discovering
asteroid juncture faults for the Asteroid Association. He explained
that once, according to theory and great evidence, a large planet
existed between Mars and Jupiter. The planet exploded, forming the
asteroid belt, and throwing out large, errant chunks of itself which
moved in various peculiar orbits about the Sun.

"Plymouth is such a chunk, and," added Harvey complacently, "I will
undoubtedly be paid one thousand credits from the Asteroid Association
later on when I show that Plymouth comes from that shattered planet's
surface. And I will prove also, for the first time, that that shattered
planet contained a surface soil on which vegetable life was rampant.
Plymouth is such a proof."

Gramenger writhed and sweated. He pointed to the pile of dirt. "But you
haven't proved--"

Harvey turned to the lawyer. "May I ask your astrological sign, sir?"

The lawyer grimaced. "Why? I don't believe in astrology. I have been
told it's Taurus."

Harvey smiled. "This is a fine coincidence. My fiancee's sign is also
Taurus. I am Pisces. The two signs are especially in affinity with one
another. I believe you can trust me, sir." He looked straight into the
lawyer's eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The lawyer grinned lopsidedly after a moment and turned to Gramenger.

"We can trust him," he said. "He's right all the way down the line.
Anyway, we couldn't waste time in finding out."

"All right!" Gramenger rapped the words out half-angrily. "Take care of
it, Phil. Get Parsons & Carey on the 'phone, and ask them to send all
their engineers and equipment out. Pronto!" The lawyer nodded briefly
at Harvey and left the room.

"As for you," said Gramenger. He gulped and stopped. With trembling
fingers he began shoving the pile of dirt back into the paper bag.
Harvey thought a minute.

"I wonder if I could use your 'phone?" he asked.

Gramenger growled an assent. Harvey sat on the edge of the desk. "Get
me outside," he told the operator, who turned out to be a machine
somewhere in the building. The mechanical voice told him to press the O
key. He pressed the O key. "Get me Mars," he said. The mechanical voice
changed to a human voice. "Get me the Hotel de Mars on Mars," he said.
Gramenger was staring at him. A voice at the other end came through
thinly. "Let me speak to Anna Christina Morley at the Registration
desk," he said. Gramenger sat down, beginning to smile and staring
at Harvey as if not only a new planet but a new type of man had been
discovered.

Harvey said, "Anna, dearest? I shall speak very plainly, very quickly.
I am a man of few words--What?"

His leathery face lost a little color. "But you _are_ my fiancee, you
know."

"Am I?" she cried. "What makes you think so? What makes you think you
can talk fifteen minutes with a girl, have her fall in love with you,
assume she'll go crazy waiting for you, waiting ten months--when four
months have already passed without hearing from you--"

"My dear Anna," he said. "If this is a joke--"

"You're a joke." She sobbed. She broke down. "I don't know what you
did to me. Only fifteen minutes. How could you have done that to me in
fifteen minutes?"

He frowned. "I'm always certain of a situation before I leave it,"
he explained. "That is a common precaution that we men of space must
take, an ordinary survival mechanism, I should say. Besides, you are a
Taurus, and I am a Pisces and I computed that numerologically--"

"Bother your astrology and your numerology," she snapped.

There was silence, a long half minute of it stretching between Venus
and Mars at a half-credit a second. Gramenger continued to get more and
more amused.

"What do you want?" she asked. "When will you come back, if ever?"

His singed eyebrow went up in puzzlement. "I told you ten months,
Anna. I meant ten months. As for what I want, please, at once, send
a space-wire to your father in Oregon. Have him ship five hens and a
cock by fast passenger express to the spaceport depot on Venus. Ask him
also to include whatever special medicines, feeds, and instructions are
necessary for the raising and nurturing of Plymouth Rocks--"

She gasped. "For heaven's sake, why?"

"Don't you want a chicken farm? I am building one on a planet I own."

A groan came over the 'phone, lasting long enough to cost Gramenger &
Lewis a credit and a half.

"Dad won't send them. I know. It's hare brained. No one's ever tried to
raise chickens any place except on Earth."

"That isn't the point," he said. "Send the wire."

"All right," she said in a small voice.

"Furthermore," he added, "inform your father this is a business
venture. I shall keep him supplied, as middleman, with a new breed of
Plymouth Rocks which are considerably larger than turkeys, are more
succulent, more tasty and tender, lay larger eggs with possibly larger
yolks--"

"How?"

"I have some knowledge of biology and pressure chemistry, Anna.
Plymouth will be ideal."

"What's Plymouth?"

"The name of the planet."

Harvey cocked his ear at the silence. Then there were sounds of
sniffles. "I have to take care of a registration, Harvey," Anna said.
"I have to go. I'm very proud that you love me, Harvey. I'll wait for
you. And I'll convince Dad. Goodbye."

"Goodbye," said Harvey. He hung up. "She misses me," he told Gramenger.
"Poor girl. Would you like me to take the ten thousand credits in cash
or as a check?"

"A check," said Gramenger. He wrote it out. Harvey took it, and started
toward the door. He called back:

"Thanks for the use of your 'phone," and walked out. Gramenger had
nothing to say.

       *       *       *       *       *

Harvey went back to Plymouth some two weeks later. He now owned a much
larger ship. It was crammed to the brim with chemical fertilizers to
improve the soil. There were also seed grains such as oats, wheat and
corn. There was lumber for building, plumbing fixtures, windows, doors,
everything needed to build several sheds plus a long, low rambling
ranch-type house. The hens and the cock were aboard. There were six men
also who would do the building, and help in any other way necessary.

Plymouth was a beautiful, emerald planet as they hove in close to it.
As they landed, a pleasant, sunny atmosphere swirled around the ship.
The gravitic machinery kept the gravity at Earth normal. The ground
was already thawed, and was surprisingly like the rich, life-filled
loam found in Iowa cow country. An engineer was waiting for Harvey,
showed him the gravitic controls, explained the planet had been moved
a million miles out of its orbit so that the _Hermes_ could plow past
without harming it.

By shutting off gravitic energy from one side, he explained, pressing
buttons on the control panel, the planet could be made to move in any
direction.

Furthermore, the gravitation could be raised or lowered at will, on all
of the planetoid or on any small portion of it.

"Fine, fine," said Harvey, much pleased. Before the engineer took off
Harvey promised him several large Plymouth Rocks before Thanksgiving,
and as an afterthought took a numerological reading on his name. Then
he instantly started in to work.

The house went up. Saws whined. Sheds went up. Hammers hammered. Lawns
were laid, ground fertilized, worm-eggs installed. Some natural
vegetation of a weird nature appeared, its seeds having been alive
but frozen for a time measured in epochs. No doubt of it, the soil
was alive. The fowl flourished in their fenced in yard, prone to no
diseases, having no natural enemies, neither mice nor lice.

Harvey worked with three generations of chickens. He made his
experiments with fluctuating gravity under the chicken house.

His employees were fascinated. Harvey explained. "I'm actually 50 years
old," he said. "Don't tell my fiancee. She thinks I'm 40. But being out
in space, virtually with no gravitational pull on my body for almost
all of my life, my life expectancy has been pushed up to somewhere in
the hundreds. I can pass for forty.

"Gravity," he said, "makes people grow old and probably hastens death.
The muscles have to fight gravity, so do all the other organs. The
muscles toughen, get stringy, the skin, the nerves, the arteries and
the meat of the body get brittle and hard. This is what is known as
'old age.'

"Think what effect a lowered or fluctuating gravity could have on these
beautiful gray white birds."

Harvey experimented a great deal as the weeks passed. He often adjusted
the gravity lugs down to a point where they exerted just enough force
to hold the atmosphere to the planet. The results were remarkable on
the Plymouths.

The third generation of fowl were distinctly a fifth larger than their
ancestors. The cocks, which normally should weigh 10 lbs., now weighed
between 10 and 14. The hens in proportion kept a couple of pounds under
this; they matured faster, they bred much more vigorously than any
Plymouth Rock ever had. The eggs were consistently larger.

Harvey early decided against hatching incubators because the hens,
untroubled by vermin or other influences such as bad weather which
could make them neurotic, paid tranquil attention to their jobs. He
did, however, have open electric brooders constantly going so that the
chicks could go to them for warmth if necessary.

Lowering the gravity had a similar effect on his corn, oats and
wheat crops. They sprang up, maturing in a remarkably short time.
There was plenty of feed for the fowl. Plymouth was rapidly becoming
self-supporting.

Harvey was pleased. He explained again: "Pressure can be considered
as a gravitational effect, and vice versa. Pressure chemistry causes
certain chemical reactions to speed up, others to slow down. I figure
that by Thanksgiving I can find the correct variation of gravitational
pressure that will give me a breed of Plymouth Rocks never seen in this
universe."

       *       *       *       *       *

By the time the fourth swift generation came along he had almost
reached his goal. Furthermore, the flesh was tenderer than any of these
men had thought possible. When the time came for Harvey to take them
back to Venus, he promised them they would be well supplied by the time
Thanksgiving rolled around.

Harvey was somewhat loathe to leave the planet Plymouth alone. He had
a certain fear in the back of his head that things would happen if he
did. He intended to return as soon as he and Anna got married.

He showed up at the Hotel de Mars a week ahead of time. At Anna's place
behind the Registration desk stood a white haired little old lady.

A chill started deep in his stomach when she told him Anna left a
month--no, two months ago. She produced a letter Anna had left him. It
was brief and pointed.

"Harvey," the letter read, "I know you lied to me. There isn't any
planet called Plymouth. I looked it up in the star atlases. Nobody ever
heard of it. I'm not going to stay here and be bitterly disappointed
when you don't show up at the end of ten months. Goodbye."

Harvey threw the letter away. It had served its purpose.

"Ma'am," he said, "I'm a man of action and few words. What is Miss
Morley's Oregon address?"

Nobody knew Anna's Oregon address. Harvey instantly left for Oregon.
Landing there, he began looking. He had found juncture faults; he
would find Anna. It took him over a month. He ran across her quite by
accident behind the cigar counter in a drugstore.

"Anna," he said, "there's no time to lose; get your things; quit this
job; come with me." He stopped anything she had to say. They were
married in the next hour. An hour after that they were on the way to
the planet whose existence Anna still doubted.

There was little room for doubt when that spot of entrancing green
in an ocean of black was sighted. "It's beautiful," Anna breathed,
squeezing his hand. "But what's the rush to get here?"

He explained without rancor. "Your lack of faith in me cost us far too
much time. This is a new breed of chicken; they propagate vigorously.
But they have no natural enemies. Every living thing needs a natural
enemy. Our Plymouths have probably overrun the planet."

She gurgled, then put her hand over her mouth.

He took her hand away. "Anna, dearest, laugh. Laugh as much as you
please. But I have no sense of humor. This you will discover as we move
through life together. I see nothing funny in this situation. Living
creatures need natural enemies."

When the ship landed, his meaning became obvious. Chickens flew in
great squawking clouds through the air, walked and clucked in rivers at
their feet. Feathers came down like heavy snow; the ground was covered
with fluffy white mounds. From horizon to horizon there seemed to be
little else but chicken.

Anna was appalled. Harvey was planning. A slaughter would be necessary.
"_We're_ their natural enemies," he explained. "Your chicken farm is
ready to pay off."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHICKEN FARM ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
