ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Spacemen Are Born, by Bolling Branham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Spacemen Are Born

Author: Bolling Branham

Release Date: February 12, 2021 [eBook #64530]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPACEMEN ARE BORN ***




                           SPACEMEN ARE BORN

                          By BOLLING BRANHAM

              _Everyone knows that spacemen are born--not
             made. But grav-bound Trase Barnes, No. 1 v.p.
            of Air-Lines, Inc., bet his arrogant soul that
               he could shoot Saturn's rings--and live._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories May 1952.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


    "O, Jewel of the Eastern Sky,
      O, Mother of many things,
    Bring home your sons to safety,
      From the Stars to Saturn's rings...."

Curse it, I am too old to go to space, and why can't I be content with
that?

Must I hear the spacemen's songs and the stories they tell, so that
the breath of romance aches each day in my bones? For here on Earth's
cool moon I am as close to the sky as I need be, and the sky is close
enough to me.

But those spacemen who go to Saturn--ah, they have viewed a scene that
exists nowhere else in all our universe, and I think they delight
in singing the Saturn "Home Song" in my ears and telling me of the
wonders of Saturn's skies.

For have you ever been to Saturn? No, you needn't go away, for in a
moment I'm going to tell the story of Trase Barnes. But in order to
understand him you've got to know about Saturn.

For, you see, you're coasting when you come in, riding with idling
jets, cutting in under the edge of the outside ring, into the darkness
away from the sun. On the fourth day you go between the big ring and
the crape, and then, when you look above you--you see one magnificent
reason why men go to space.

There's Saturn.

The God of Time, he is, and you're looking out over the flatness of the
rings at the yellow bulk of a planet, filling your sky ahead. Yellow,
streaked with purple streamers, fading away at the edges into the
blackness that is eternal space. Yes, fortunes have been made and lost
on trips to Saturn, but no one loses the memory of how it looks when
you shoot the rings.

Now about Trase Barnes....

Trase was born here on the Moon, right in the dispatcher's station,
with the pull of artificial gravity helping to push the blood around
for the first time in his little squalling body.

You know what gravity does for you? Of course, it's the reason that
today spacemen are a special breed. Back when every country was racing
to get the first rocket on the moon no one thought much about gravity
except how to nullify it.

But when the first men got out in space on the way to the moon, they
couldn't think much of gravity except how to get back to it. They
didn't get back, nor did the men on the next trip, nor the next sixteen
brave crews that darted off into the night sky with the howling fire
coming out below them. It was number 19 before they found the trouble,
for aboard it was the first crew member with spacemen's ear--and don't
we know now that spacemen are born?

Maybe you know they're born and not made, and maybe you don't know why.
I'll tell you then, cause my story isn't right without it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Back when I was a kid in Tennessee, I used to raise a thousand chickens
every spring and never lost but a few. But there was one chicken one
year that I'll remember for the rest of my days. He never was able to
walk. From the time he was hatched he kept falling on his face, or his
behind, and rolling over and over, with the other chickens walking on
him. So one day I asked the Doc what was wrong.

"No equilibrium," said the Doc, and _now_ you know what that means!
Right inside his ear the canals were messed up, the canals where the
liquid rolls around, and this chicken didn't know which way was up.
Seems like he didn't have any liquid in there. No liquid at all.

Well, that's what makes a spaceman. A man with a normal ear, why he
knows which way is up or down, because the gravity pulls that liquid
around in there, and it rolls over those sensory hairs which contact
the brain with the latest information. But when the first spacemen got
out into space, there wasn't any gravity to pull the liquid, and it
charged around in there whichever way it felt like--up, down, sideways,
whichever way they moved their heads, and the walls, sky, and world
just whirled around. They all got sick; couldn't see, couldn't eat,
couldn't move. Most of the first rockets just passed right on by the
moon and went out into space, and those that didn't just piled into it
head on, with half-dead men lying at the controls.

But in number 19 there was a man who'd always had trouble with his
sense of balance, a man who fell easily and hit hard when he went down.
That man saved his crew. For when they got out in space they got sick,
like the other eighteen crews, but the other man, he just heaved a sigh
of relief, just looked out at the sky and the stars and the great big
universe of space, and his whole insides cried, "This is for me!"

Yes sir, he was a spaceman-born--the first spaceman--and he brought
that ship back by himself to tell the world that spacemen are born.

It was a funny thing too. For so many of the born spacemen are
weaklings, kids who never feel sure of themselves, who never can play
hard games because they're always falling down. Other kids always made
fun of them, but now these men came into their own. They weren't at
home on the earth, the moon, Mars, or _any_ planet--their home was the
deep purple nothingness of space.

And they built our space colonies and have always run our space-lanes.

But Trase Barnes wasn't one of them.

Like I say, Trase's father was a spaceman, a long thin giant of a man
who loved the sky and lived in it. Trase's mother was like his father,
a space-woman born, and they lived out there at No-Grav City, hung
there fifty thousand miles away from the moon, where spacemen live
without the heavy bonds of gravity.

But Mrs. Barnes came into the Moon-Station hospital to have her baby,
and naturally she hoped for a son--a spaceman-born. But Trase was just
as sound and healthy as an Iowa pig in October, and he knew from the
beginning which way was up and down. But how he hated it!

When Trase's pa came back from a long haul out to Pluto--he'd been gone
a year and a half--and found out that Trase would never be a spaceman,
he broke into tears. Only time he ever cried.

Well, they lived with him and they raised him, here in the gravity of
the moon. His pa had to make a living, hitching space hulks back and
forth in the dark of the sky, but his ma was as kind as ever; she just
gritted her teeth and stayed in the gravity with him till he got out of
Moon-Station prep-school. They finally had another child, a girl, who
was a space-woman born. Now she's a woman pilot on a Mercury to Venus
run.

       *       *       *       *       *

Oh, how Trase hated himself, and the world, and most of all the gravity
that bound his feet to the ground. His first wanderings were out there
to the space-port, where the spacemen in their gray uniforms strolled
easily about and swaggered before his eyes. There were the mysterious
vessels, crouched in their launching racks, their skins shiny with the
flow-sheen imparted to them by tremendous speeds out in nothing. There
were the gatherings of spacemen to talk about the black, black side of
Mercury, the pale corona of the sun seen from Neptune, the thousands
of square miles of flat green moss on Venus, but mostly they talked of
the purple and yellow rings of Saturn, and the deep-breath feeling of
space.

So Trase would go back to his school books and try to understand
arithmetic and geography, and his body would always be on time, his
physical being would say "present"--but his mind, ah, his mind wandered
a golden pathway among the glittering worlds of the sky.

His little fingers were deft and quick, and by the time he was ten he
had made a dozen space-models. There was a model of old number 19,
crude, rough, and laughable, with its huge stepped rockets that were
dropped away to the rear on the way to the moon. There beside his
schoolbooks was the _Adventurer II_, first ship to go inside Mercury's
orbit and come back to tell the tale. His walls were lined with
pictures of such men as Rak Bartel, the laughing spaceman who rescued
the Wofford expedition from the wilds of Titan, and over there was
Colombo Dante, the pale little Indian half-breed who held ten speed
records around the solar system that are still unbeaten today.

But under his pillow was the picture of Mortan Barnes, his father,
whose huge, thin face gave the appearance of looking wistfully at the
stars. Yet, it couldn't have been more wistful than the eyes of Trase.

So Trase went on with his growing up, and they told him to study
medicine, so he gobbled up his chemistry, his biology, and
anthropology, but he studied space-math at night. By the time he got
out of prep-school he could work some astro-nav problems in his head
and knew the names, tonnages, and horsepower of the seven hundred
models of space vessels without so much as cracking a book.

He read a story about a stowaway one day, and then he read it again. It
made his mind start to working and he began to say to himself, "Maybe
they're wrong about my ears. Maybe I would be a good spaceman. If a
man's got a mind to be a spaceman, looks like he ought to be able to
make himself do it, doesn't it?"

The space-station doctor spoke sympathetically. "No, Trase, there's
very little that can be done. An operation, maybe--but the only
doctor I know capable of performing such an operation is on Earth,
and it would cost thousands of dollars. No, Trase, be happy, can't
you? Most spacemen are not really happy. I think they really envy us
gravity-bound people, for they can't ever know a real home. Can't you
see the wistfulness in their faces and the haunted look deep back in
their eyes?"

Yes, Trase could see all that, but to him it was because they saw
things that no other man could see.

Trase didn't believe the doctor. He had to try it, so he smuggled
himself into an air-lock one day, grabbed an air-suit, and wandered out
on the ground of the moon.

Now the moon's got a little gravity, you know, but when Trase got out
of the artificial gravity of the Moon-Station, he began to run into
trouble. It was all right as long as he stood still, because the little
gravity of the moon would pull at the liquid in his ears. But if he
moved suddenly, why it would shake all around in there, and the moon
and the stars and the bright big Earth over there would whirl in a
blaze of light. Then Trase would wake up lying on his face with his
suit messed up from being sick.

So Trase figured out a method of training himself. "I'll show 'em," he
would groan through clenched teeth while the sky wheeled around his
head. "By the Great Big Bear I'll show 'em that a spaceman _can_ be
made!"

       *       *       *       *       *

His private method of training was to move in exaggerated slow motion.
To walk out on the rough ground of the moon and lift one foot so-o-o
slowly and carefully, with his eyes fixed on one tall, spiky peak of
the Appenines, and with the crust of Mare Imbrium staying in place.
He got where he could cover a mile or two in an earth-time afternoon,
never taking his eyes off the fix on the mountain peak, never moving
his head to catch a glimpse of the fiery trails of the space vessels
roaring off into the purple-blue sky.

And the magic catch-phrase would come like a chant from between his
twisted lips, "Spacemen are made ... spacemen are made!"

He really made a little headway. He got where he could move a little
faster and could occasionally take a quick glance upward at the
crystalline patchwork of the sky.

And what was that beautiful point of light out there?

Trase knew it was Saturn, and his eyes would be fixed upon it as
a final mount of redemption, as the supreme goal of a well lived
lifetime. He wheedled his way into the Moon-Station Astrodome and
hungrily gulped in the sight of the ringed planet canted there in the
scope view-finder. It was there! The rings were there, the huge planet
was there, but the scope only showed you enough to make it just out
of your reach; tantalizing, torturing--a pearl to melt through your
fingers when you reached for it.

"Hi'ya Saturn!" he would cry. "God of Time that you are, you've waited
a long time for me but I'll be there!"

Trase began going to the dispatcher's station, getting the schedules
of arrivals and departures and destinations, and figuring the orbits.
Then he could tell the exact time the space vessels were due to shoot
the rings at Saturn, or burst through the 1,100 mile space between
the crape ring and the middle one. Then he would be sitting there at
the scope, imagining that he could see a ship--a so-small fleck of
blackness skimming across the yellow of the watery hulk of Saturn. That
was the way he saw the blow-up of the _Andromeda_, carrying a load of
fissionable materials, when she burst in a flash of white-hot energy in
a collision with some hunks of jet in the middle ring.

After he saw that, Trase walked home with something dead inside of him,
with his head quiet, his shoulders drooping, his heart sobbing out the
Saturn "Home Song" as he had heard his father sing it so often. For his
father had been master of the _Andromeda_.

Trase was the one who had to tell his mother, and she took it,
dry-eyed, for the first few minutes. But then she could stand it no
longer, and she flung herself at her tall son, lean and muscular, and
sobbed, "I'm glad you can't be a spaceman. I'm glad, I'm glad. It's a
dirty life, and your reward is a flashing death in a fire-pit."

Trase held her while she sobbed out her grief. He had to keep
swallowing down the lump in his own throat, but he could somehow keep
seeing that white-hot burst of flame framed before the God of Time,
and could imagine that his father's spirit was freed in the space he
had loved, out there where he could live on forever, gazing on that
magnificent scene.

After that, there wasn't any more studying medicine for Trase. He had
to go to work. Because of his aptness with figures he got a job in the
dispatcher's office as assistant calculator. It paid well, but somehow
it didn't mean so much any more, for Trase seemed to be living in an
emptiness greater than that of space. He clocked in and clocked out
each shift, and his error index was smaller than that of any other
clerk in the office. The other clerks used to look at him and grunt,
"There goes Trase Barnes--never a mistake. He's just as infallible as
the machine."

So he went up. Assistant calculator to calculator, to assistant
dispatcher to dispatcher. In seven years he was chief dispatcher and in
three more he ran the Moon-Station space-port. Twenty-nine years old,
vice-president of Air-Lanes, Inc., owned a block of Marsopolis, Inc.,
stock, and had never been off the moon.

In later years, it kind of quit bothering him, except sometimes when
some of his pilots came in to make a report and they'd seen a flashing
meteor on Io, or had screamed through the blue, thin, upper atmosphere
of Jupiter--and they simply could not hide their feelings in the
language of official reports. At times like that, Trase would sometimes
slip on the air-suit, go through his old routine out there on the
forgotten dust of Mare Imbrium, and mutter his phrase about "Spacemen
are made!"

But it was just a ritual, just an escape, just a way of breathing an
occasional bit of life into an empty dream, and Trase knew it. Where
was that feeling of yesterday, that lift in his breast, that catch in
his throat, that wild calling from out there among the white stars that
made his legs tremble, his heart hammer, and his spirit cry out, "I'll
be there"?

Where, indeed, had the ghosts gone, those ghosts that fought so
bitterly the mound-bound vision of himself, sitting at his desk and
never leaving the moon?

       *       *       *       *       *

Trase had just come in from one of those visits one afternoon when
Irinia Custer walked into his office unannounced, and caught him there
in an unlighted office, staring out at the constellations low on the
horizon.

Now, Irinia was almost a legend. Her reaction time was the fastest
of any pilot employed by Air-Lanes Inc. Her hardness and cynicism in
the face of danger, death, and the accepted ideals of life made top
story-telling material wherever spacemen gathered. She wouldn't have
needed to be beautiful, but on top of it all she was; for her sensuous
figure and black hair, with equally coal-black eyes, made her wild
beauty as legendary as her deeds. Yet Trase Barnes was known to be
twice as cold-blooded as she, an automaton who sent pilots into danger
with nothing but money in mind.

So Irinia eased quietly into Trase's office that afternoon, and there
the tough man sat, with his back to the door, staring out the huge
lucite port into the jewelled splendor of the clear night sky--seeing
the constellations that to Trase were as familiar as the walls of his
office.

Irinia stood quietly behind him for a moment, then she spoke. "So the
v.p. likes the stars," she breathed slowly, but her voice was not
scornful. "The big, moon-bound executive, with ice-water in his veins,
_has_ got a spark of romance."

Trase turned to her slowly, a part of his mind still out there among
the stars where strange kings and queens fought for galactic empires.

Irinia looked at him, at the expression on Trase's face, and then
suddenly she could read the whole story written there in plain
characters. Right there in his eyes she could see the soul of a
spaceman penned up in a moon-bound cage.

And suddenly Irinia Custer felt sorry for the hardness that was in
her spirit, sorry for her bitter, cynical attitude, sorry for the
dirty, laughing nicknames she had fashioned among space-crews for
vice-president Trase Barnes.

They looked at each other for a long time. Then Trase got out the thick
words slowly. "Well, I'm stuck, Irinia," he smiled. "You know the way I
feel--the secret's out, and I know you'll tell it."

Irinia started to talk, but something was lodged in her throat and
her mouth felt dry, strangely dry. She walked over to Trase and her
trembling hand reached out and touched the features of his face, and
the fierceness of what she felt inside her made her whole body shake.

"Yes, I know, Trase," she breathed. "I know." Then suddenly she put her
head on his shoulder and cried.

Well, that's the way it goes, you know. The two toughest people in
spacing ran together, and it was like joining two ribbons of molten
steel. It was a love such as the Moon-Station had seldom seen, and the
talk ran through the space-lines like it had never gone before. It had
been bound to happen to Trase, yet all the worlds wept for the two of
them. Because everyone knew that nothing was worse than for a spaceman
or woman to be mated with a ground-bounder.

At first their happiness was untouchably supreme, and Trase walked
about in a kind of warm haze, deliciously aware of things he had never
before noticed--the pleasant coughing sound of a Moon-Dog barking, the
tinny clatter of dishes that rang out from the Spacemen's Mess; all
small things which never before had meaning, but which now made him
seem like part of the world.

Yet, it caught up with them, for they both knew that Irinia couldn't
give up space and Trase couldn't go to space. Or could he?

It got Trase to thinking. Hadn't there been something about a doctor,
or an operation ... maybe now he had the money to pay. He went back
to see the space doctor who told him that, and found that he was
dead. He asked other doctors and they told him that it was a bunch of
foolishness, that they had never known of a successful operation of
that type, that the only thing to remember was the phrase, "Spacemen
are born--not made."

Trase got kind of tired of hearing it, but no doctor would risk his
reputation on the operation.

So that was that.

       *       *       *       *       *

Trase and Irinia talked it over; that is, as much as they could with
their throats kind of choked up, and they decided the only thing they
could do was to forget each other. Irinia could never be happy living
in gravity. So she went off to space again, and Trase just sat back at
his great carved oaken desk, looked out his lucite port, and pondered.

Oh, that Trase was a thinker, and his thinking got faster and faster
as the days went by, and sometimes again he began to be seen on an
earth-time afternoon down on the flight line, watching the ships come
in and out. It was a place he hadn't frequented in years.

By the time Irinia got back on her trip from Deimos, his face was
hard--hard as the thought that was in his mind. He called Irinia to
come to his office. She didn't want to, because they had vowed never to
speak again, but somehow, from the tone of the note, she had to come.

"O.K., veepee," she cracked, a frozen, bitter, mask of a smile on her
lips, "What've I done now?"

Trase said, "I'm going to space."

Irinia's face went white for a minute, but she knew her Trase--and she
knew argument was no good.

"Where?" she whispered.

"Saturn," Trase replied.

"Oh, no!" cried Irinia. "Not Saturn! It's the worst of them all."

"I know it is," Trase said. "That's the reason I want to go."

"You'll never come back alive," whispered Irinia. "If the sickness
doesn't get you, the rings will."

"Maybeso, Irinia. But I need your help. I've got plans and I need
you. If I make this trip, maybe I can make others. Maybe ... maybe I
can prove that spacemen _can_ be made. But if I can't make it without
sickness, I promise you I'll never bother you or ask anything of you
again."

"But what are your plans, Trase?"

"Drugs, first, Irinia. Progressive slackening off, and attempted
self-induced hypnotism. Small artificial gravity unity, enough to
create about a tenth of earth gravity. I think I can do it, Irinia."

"But it's all been tried before, Trase, and it's never worked! You know
that--it's deeply psychological as well as physical. You can't do it
simply by wanting it!"

Trase looked long and hard at her. His smile was almost ghastly. "Life
is worth nothing to me unless I try it, Irinia," he said quietly.

So that did it. Trase cashed in his stock in Air-Lanes, bought a
ship and they went to work on it. He couldn't get a first-rate crew
because the news got around about what they were trying to do, and no
self-respecting spaceman would have anything to do with it. But there
were drifters to be had.

They blew off in the middle of the two-week moon night, the polyglot
crew grazing the space-station dome, and setting off ten degrees
off course, with Trase strapped in his bunk and drugged into
unconsciousness, and Irinia cursing the crew in pure venom they had
never heard before.

And that, essentially, was the way the trip went. Irinia never weakened
and by the time they were two months out she had the crew almost to a
state of discipline.

Of course, drugs had been tried before--they were the method used to
transport non-space-born passengers between the Earth and the moon.
Irinia fed Trase intravenously. At the end of the two months she turned
on the puny artificial gravity system and let him come awake.

His first words were, "Where's Saturn?"

"O, Trase, we haven't even got well started yet," Irinia cried.

       *       *       *       *       *

Trase came awake. He tried to sit up in his bunk, and fell out lightly
on the floor with his whole insides heaving. Irinia dosed him up again
and toyed with the idea of turning back. But Trase was in good health,
so she decided to go on. At the end of the third month, Trase found
that he could lie flat on his back in his bunk with eyes blindfolded,
and with no movement at all. This way he could stay awake at stated
intervals, as long as there was no change in course or velocity.

Oh, the beauty of open space! Though he couldn't get out of his bunk to
see it, Trase knew that they were way out in the middle of nowhere, and
Irinia would come around to tell him about it.

The time passed, and then Saturn began gradually to fill the screen of
the ship's vision-plate, and Irinia began to worry. For to shoot the
rings required plenty of deft acceleration and deceleration, and Irinia
knew that Trase couldn't stand the maneuvering.

"How about just a look at Saturn from a distance, Trase?" Irinia would
ask.

"We've got to shoot the rings," he would reply grimly.

So Irinia knew he wouldn't be satisfied with anything less, and she
went busily about the procedure of lining up the polyglot crew for the
ring-shooting.

At fifty million miles from Saturn she fired two small braking blasts,
and Trase cried out from his bunk and was sick again. She ran back to
him and said, "Oh, Trase, let me drug you till we get there."

His white suffering face showed clenched teeth. He grabbed her arm and
said, "I'll make it, Irinia, I'll make it. Just let me know when the
view gets good."

So she let him alone and went about the business of braking. She heard
no more groans from Trase. But when she went back to see him, there he
would be with his hands gripped until the knuckles showed white, with
the bedclothes gripped between his teeth. "I'll make it, Irinia," he
would gasp. Then sometimes she would hear him cry, "I'll be there, God
of Time, I'll be there!"

Space-sickness and nausea.... Those it doesn't kill generally try to
kill themselves.

Well, from fifty million miles it's a four-day trip to shoot the rings
and get started away again, and there was Trase with the universe
spinning around his ears, suffering as much as anyone can suffer.

They went in under the darkness of the huge outside ring, for the rings
were canted at that time almost their total 28 degrees to the ecliptic.

And then out of the misery and the eons of suffering Trase suddenly
heard a voice, "Trase! Trase! Come to the Astrodome, we're shooting the
rings! Trase, we're shooting the rings!"

Trase prayed. His hands reached out for the bunk straps and he felt
Irinia helping him. He had long ago lost everything on his stomach but
the world whirled in a wild clanging clatter of craziness and he had to
be guided along the passageway.

"I can't make it!" he cried at once, and Irinia had to drag him back to
his feet, and then he said, "Yes, I can--I'll be there."

Well, that was the way Trase made it. His clothes reeking with his
sickness, his body wasted away from inaction, his eyes dimmed and
glazed over from suffering, his face a mask of thin ferocity from his
determination. But he made it.

There's Saturn, Trase.

He looked out over the burning brilliant flatness of the crape ring
to the huge yellow hulk of the God of Time towering over him. The
light and majesty of what he saw swam to his brain out of the fogs of
bitterness that had shrouded his soul and he saw it--one magnificent
reason why men go to space.

Personal Saturn, unreachable Saturn ... yellow, streaked with purple
streamers, fading away at the edges into the blackness that is eternal
space. From there at the edge of the crape ring it is as though you
were standing on a plain of golden dust, staring up into the face
of destiny. The features of the face are plain, formed out of the
whirling evanescent colors of the gases whipped around on the surface
by cyclonic winds. You can see rainbows and pots of gold fashioned and
then whipped away to change to greater things. The breath of eternal
mystery blows on the spirit, and spacemen say you can see anything you
desire.

The ship lurched this way and that as the jets kept it on its course,
and Trase suddenly realized that the sickness had dropped away from him
like a fetter. The ship headed back towards Titan for a refueling stop,
but Trase sat there and stared at Saturn until the Astrodome got around
to the front and the jet trails obscured the view at the rear. He was
not sick while he looked at Saturn.

His clear-headedness lasted about half-an-hour. Then Trase got sick
again. He was sick for a day and a half, until the ship began to come
in on Titan.

But the drifter crew had hid out some Mercurian liquor and got drunk
before landing. They failed to cut the jets. Irinia cursed until the
spaceship bulkheads turned red hot, but she fell and knocked herself
out running down from the pilot's compartment to the engine-room. And
so there was the ship headed wide-open into Titan with the crew drunk,
Irinia unconscious, and Trase dead-sick in his bunk.

Well, you'll know now that Trase saved the day. He began to think of
Saturn as he had seen it. He staggered down to the engine-room, cut
the jets, then ran up to the pilot's room where the rough surface of
Titan stared him in the face. And he wasn't sick while he thought of
Saturn.

The ship cracked up but nobody was killed. They hadn't been able to get
any insurance with an unlicensed crew, so that left Trase flat-broke.
He wasn't a veepee anymore since he had no stock in Air-Lanes, and
Irinia got fired for taking the extended leave.

So things were kind of tough for a while, but.... Where are they now?
Oh, you know, you've heard all about it. They found a backer, and now
they're out on Pluto with a space-drive job, getting ready to set out
for Centauri. And Trase has never been sick again.

What does it prove?

Well, see those words written right there over the entrance to the
spacemen's mess? Those are the words Trase used when they pulled him
out of the wreck on Titan. I'll read them for you. "I've seen Saturn!
And to you who have seen it, I don't need to say whether spacemen can
be made. To others, to millions of youngsters who want to be spacemen,
I'll say now that spacemen _are_ born. But to each of them I'll say
this--If you want to be a spaceman, you don't need a spaceman's ear,
all you need is a spaceman's soul."

So the spacemen took that and added another verse to the Saturn "Home
Song," and it's the one that really makes me hurt because I can't go to
space again. Sometimes late at night I hear them singing it from far
out on the field when a crew is coming in off a run, and that's when I
know you can't stop them. You can't stop the born spacemen until they
reach the stars. The verse goes like this:

    "Oh, Saturn, the God of Time,
      May your majesty never fade.
    For your beauty is final proof,
      Spacemen are born not made."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPACEMEN ARE BORN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
