ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Berserker, by Charles V. De Vet

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Berserker

Author: Charles V. De Vet

Release Date: February 14, 2021 [eBook #64561]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BERSERKER ***




                             THE BERSERKER

                         By CHARLES V. DE VET

                _'Twas said of The Berserker ... "when
                an opening comes he'll play for it, and
             he'll do it with a single-minded violence._"

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories March 1953.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


All of Big Jim Ostby's attention seemed on the cigar as he lit it, but
it was not. He observed the faces of the men who passed him by, and
the figures of those across the street, and up and down the sidewalk.
Satisfied, he moved on.

Ostby's six feet four, and two hundred thirty-five pounds, were not
conspicuous on this other-dimensional world, where his size was but
little above average. And only the sharpest observer would have noted
the leashed aliveness of the instrument of sinew and muscle which was
his body.

Deliberately Ostby avoided the shadows. That way lay danger. Reason,
abetted by an instinctive capacity for adaptation, told him blending in
with his background offered the best concealment.

By now the whole district would know that the police were after him.
He wondered what the latest reports were. Casually he slowed his pace
until two men behind him drew near enough to be overheard.

"They say the police have the Berserker cornered in our half of the
Flats," one of the men said.

"If they trap 'im there's gonna be some dead police before the night's
over," the second answered. "He ain't called the Berserker for nothing."

"I'd hate to be in his shoes. They've got a net around the district
that a fly couldn't get through."

"I'd hate to be one of the police that corners him."

"He'll never get away this time."

"I wouldn't bet against him if I was you. The gamblers in the street
are giving odds of two to one that he makes it."

"How do you figure he's got a chance?"

"I don't know. We're not cut out of the right stuff for that kind of
thing. He is. When an opening comes he'll play for it, and he'll do it
with a single-minded violence."

Suddenly Ostby's attention was drawn to a group of men collected at
the corner ahead. Two thin lines of police were blocking the way and
examining identity cards. He drew in a long, deep breath. Life for him
on this world was one of a series of crises, unforeseen, but stationed
along his way as regularly as mileposts.

Swiftly, but with studied unconcern, he looked about him. To turn back
here would arouse attention. His cigar had gone out now, and he flicked
it into the gutter.

To his right was an amusement place. He turned and entered.

The place was filled with the usual crowd of drinkers and merrymakers.
Ostby found a seat at the bar and ordered a drink.

A minute later he left his stool and went to the rest room. He had to
plan a way out in case of necessity. There was no back entrance to the
rest room, he saw, and the only window was high above his head. Too
small for a man's body to squeeze through. He'd be trapped if he let
them corner him here.

Back at the bar he found his drink still waiting.

"I held your place for you," a woman's soft voice said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ostby glanced into the full length mirror above the bar. The girl
next to him was young and pretty. He shifted his glance to his own
reflection. The mustache and the little patch of beard between his
chin and lower lip had grown well. His whiskers always came in heavy
and black, and they were the style now. They altered his appearance
considerably.

Evidently it had not lessened his attraction for the opposite sex.
That attractiveness had been with him so long that he had ceased being
surprised by it. But it still puzzled him. There was strength in the
features of the reflection that looked back at him, he admitted, but
no beauty. Rather the outline was almost harsh, as though etched by a
rough masculine hand. He wondered, without caring, why women were drawn
to it.

All this retrospection occurred in the split second after he glanced
into the mirror. "I am in your debt," he said, turning to his
companion. His manner and expression was disinterested, even a bit
disdainful. Yet his voice was gentle and courteous.

Perhaps that contrast was the thing that held women's attention. The
manner seemed to imply a knowledge of their wiles, and an ability to
read through their vanities. Yet his voice told them that he recognized
their womanly need to be appreciated, and coddled, and that he would be
invariably gentle with them.

"May I buy you a drink?" he asked.

"My glass is still full," the girl answered, and smiled at him. She did
not look so young now that he saw her face to face. The features were
young, but the eyes were old, and too wise for one of her chronological
age. With his flameless lighter Ostby lit the white oval which the girl
drew from its package and placed between her full red lips.

All the while Ostby's eyes made their swift survey of the room and
stamped its every feature in his eidetic memory. Only one exit,
other than the front door, he saw. The windows were all about seven
feet above the floor, and banded with burglar-bars. A man would have
difficulty gaining entrance or exit.

At the opposite end of the room he observed a small dance floor and a
mechanical music box. His attention was held for a moment by a party
seated in a booth at the edge of the dance floor. The men and women in
the booth were too well dressed, too well bred, to be down here in the
Flats.

The apex of the party was a woman whose beauty attracted Ostby clear
across the room.

"Who are the people in the back booth?" he asked his companion.

"The Duchess of North Hudson," the girl answered, wrinkling her nose in
affected hauteur. "She's slumming. Seeing how the other half lives."

"Does she come often?"

"Only when she gets tired of being a lady. Right now she's celebrating
her separation from her second husband."

Abruptly Ostby sensed something was wrong.

He glanced into the mirror. At the door stood a half dozen of the
police. His gaze shifted to the rear entrance. He saw another party of
police there.

"If you'll excuse me," he said to the girl, as he stepped down from his
stool, "I believe I'll have a word with the Duchess."

The girl's mouth made a round O as he left her.

Ostby paused directly in front of the Duchess. Her attention swept up
to him.

"My name is Captain Faas, formerly of the Imperator's private guards,"
he said, bowing deeply enough to show courtesy, but not so deeply as to
seem subservient. "May I be so bold as to hope that the Duchess has not
forgotten me?"

There was no recognition in the Duchess's look but there was interest.

"Should I remember you?" she asked.

"It was my privilege to meet her grace at the winter games a few years
ago," Ostby answered. The look he gave her was appreciative of what he
saw.

The Duchess returned the look without recognition, but with amused
acknowledgment of a clever approach. "Of course," she said. "How could
I have forgotten? Won't you join us?"

"You are very kind," Ostby said. From the corner of his eye he saw that
the soldiers were drawing nearer. They were demanding identity cards
from all the men. "If I may presume on that kindness," he said to the
Duchess, "would you do me the honor of dancing with me?"

The Duchess hesitated for a barely perceptible instant. "I would be
happy to," she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Duchess danced well. Ostby followed the waltz piece with a fine
sense of the music's rhythm that women love.

The Duchess' dress was worn off her rounded shoulders and each breath
stirred the fullness of her breasts against the dress.

At the side of the dance floor he saw that a lieutenant of the police
was waiting politely for them to finish their dance. The big test would
come soon.

"You say we met at the winter games," the Duchess mused. She looked up
at Ostby. "We danced at the ball after the games, did we not?"

"That's right," Ostby answered, while one part of his mind considered
the problem of the lieutenant waiting for them. "That is why I asked
you to dance. I'd hoped it would recall our acquaintance."

"Acquaintance is such a formal word," the Duchess said teasingly, and
Ostby knew, without pride, that she was reacting to that intangible
something about him that pleased women. He looked down into her eyes
and noted just a suggestion of permanent crinkles at the corners. He
judged her age as about thirty-three, seven years older than himself.

"I assure you that I feel anything but formal when I hold you in my
arms," he answered, following her lead. He made her feel desirable by
the things he expressed in his glance.

In the meantime the other portion of Ostby's mind had made its decision
concerning the lieutenant.

"I see the police are making another of their nuisance spot-checks,"
he said. "I'm afraid I'm due to go through a bit of red tape. I've
misplaced my identity card."

"I hear they're tracking down some notorious criminal," the Duchess
answered. Abruptly her glance, full of sudden speculation, swept up and
studied his face. After a short pause she said something that at first
thought sounded irrelevant. "I've never danced at the winter games,"
she said.

Ostby drew in a quick breath. She knew!

The lieutenant was beside them now.

"You won't need to see his identity card, officer. He's with me," Ostby
heard the Duchess say, and he let his breath out in a long silent sigh.

The lieutenant was not satisfied, but he was clearly afraid to press
matters. He bowed to the Duchess as they walked past him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ostby lay on his back, with his knees drawn up and his hands beneath
his head. His eyes shifted idly about the room, taking in its every
feature automatically. It was this automatic attention to details
that had always helped him land on his feet in the past whenever he
had been in trouble. And he might be in trouble now. Too much of his
trust rested with the Duchess--Rinda, she had asked him to call her.
His entire safety rested in her fair hands--and he did not like it. He
liked to trust no one except himself.

Ostby had accepted the invitation to visit her because he needed a
place to hide; and because she knew too much for him to do anything
except agree. But he would have chosen otherwise had he had a choice.

However, his reason told him that she had not taken him from the grip
of the police to turn him in now.

And so he lay quietly, with the relaxed alertness of a resting cat. His
thoughts were back on Earth.

When he had taken this assignment to come through the "door" between
the worlds, he had known that there would be hardships, and that his
life would be continually in danger, but it was moments like these that
he hated the most--moments when he was not able to dictate the next
step.

Approximately twenty years earlier--in 1950--the aliens had somehow
made their "door" between the worlds; that "door" which never appeared
twice in the same spot. At first they had been content to come in,
circle their noiseless vessels through the air as they observed the
Earth, then return through their shifting "door." They had refused
all contact. Then gradually evidence began to come in that they
were raiding undefended areas, abducting men and stealing property.
Their depredations increased through the years until eventually they
constituted a major menace.

There was no effective defense against them. Now and then one of their
air ships was shot down but invariably it exploded before crashing.
At last, in desperation, the United Governments had attempted to get
operatives through with the captured persons. Ostby was one of the few
instances of success.

For six months now, by dint of adroit maneuvering and luck, he had
managed to stay alive, but he was no nearer to closing the "door."

Impatiently Ostby climbed to his feet and began pacing the room. He had
never been able to get used to these rooms, with no corners, and all
their furniture in the center. But they made for convenient pacing.

Had he been wrong in his estimate of the Duchess, he wondered. She had
appeared too much woman to let matters of the state come ahead of her
private affairs. Suddenly he stopped in mid-stride as there came a
gentle tapping on his door. He had not been wrong!


                                  II

The Duchess had been a woman of her word, Ostby reflected, as he leaned
against the counter sipping his drink. Knowing full well who he was,
she had allowed him to leave, making no demands of him, and inviting
him back whenever he cared to come. She was quite a woman. Some day, if
and when he was able to clear up this business, he would return.

Now the time had come for him to change tactics. He had been able to
accomplish nothing by playing a lone hand. He needed help. When you
opposed the police the best place to seek help--he had decided--was
among others who broke the law. Thus he returned to the Flats, hangout
of the underworld.

To make his contact with the underworld the first step should be some
spectacular move that would focus their attention on him. "Fill it up,"
he said, sliding his glass along the bar. From his pocket he drew a
thick roll of bills, a thickness caused by paper padding.

He paid for his drink and laid the roll carelessly at his elbow.

A minute went by and he felt someone slide in beside him. From the
corner of his eye Ostby observed his companion. When he saw a hand
close over the bills, he reached swiftly over and gripped the wrist of
the hand that held the money. "Drop it," he said.

The thief's lips parted over stained teeth, but he said nothing. For a
moment he stared back, viciously, then he shifted his body slightly and
Ostby felt a knife point pierce the flesh of his right side and come
to rest against his ribs. "Let go, bud." The thief spoke low without
moving his lips.

Ostby hunched his shoulders and twisted his body around in a half
circle. As the thug went off balance Ostby pulled forward, still
gripping the wrist, and threw him over his shoulder. The thug struck
the floor on the flat of his back, and the wind left his lungs. He lay
for a moment, his body doubled up, and one leg kicking spasmodically,
as he fought for breath. Ostby bent over, picked up his money, and
leaned backward, with his elbows resting against the bar, and watched
the struggling man.

All the fight had left the thief by the time he regained his breath. He
cast one venomous look at Ostby as he climbed to his feet, and left the
drinking place.

The preliminaries were over. Now to await the main action. It was not
long in coming.

"That was pretty rough treatment," a coarse voice near Ostby said.
He turned his head. The man had a day's growth of whiskers, and a
long scar stretched his mouth into a permanent grin. Ostby shrugged
noncommittally and turned back to his drink.

"You a stranger in town?" the man persisted.

Ostby nodded, as he frowned and brought his attention back to the
harsh-voiced man.

"I'm not being nosey," the man said, "but you handle yourself like
a lad who's been around. And you must be afraid of the law or you
wouldn't be hanging out down here. Right?"

Ostby turned and faced the stranger squarely. "Is it any of your
business?" he asked belligerently.

The man held up his hand. "Take it easy," he said. "I'm looking for a
fellow like you. Do you have the guts to kill a man?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ostby found a cellar window unlocked. He crawled through and let his
legs hang down. When they touched a floor he pulled himself completely
in. He paused and let his eyes become adjusted to the semi-dark.

At the end of the cellar he could make out a short flight of stairs.

Ostby climbed the stairs and softly opened the door. Directly in front
of him, but half way across the room, a fat man sat in an over-stuffed
armchair. He sat so quietly that at first Ostby thought that he was
dead.

Only when he reached the fat man's side did he see that the slate gray
eyes of the man had been watching him since he entered.

"If you were able to get this far," the fat man said, still not moving
a muscle, "my guards have been bought off."

"You're Siggen?" Ostby asked.

"Who else?" Siggen twisted his lips into an ironic smile and bowed his
head. "I'm Siggen, head of the thieves of Yarr. And you're here to kill
me. May I ask who sent you?"

"Can't you guess?"

"Many men would like to see me dead. Most of them are afraid to try it
themselves. Just as the one who sent you is afraid. But don't bother
telling me who did it. Roka has coveted my place for a long time."

Ostby said nothing.

"I trusted too much in my guards," Siggen said, more to himself than
to Ostby. "My reputation must have sunk low if they allowed themselves
to be bought." He sighed. "Perhaps it's no use trying to save this old
hulk, but hope dies hard." For a moment his tired face showed stark
and very naked in the light of the lamp. And somehow Ostby felt a bond
of sympathy with the old man. "How much will you take to spare my life?"

"What will you pay?" Ostby asked.

"Roka probably paid you a thousand heds," Siggen answered. "I'll pay
you ten thousand."

"A fair enough exchange," Ostby said. "Except that I don't want money."

"Then what do you want?"

"I want help--to enter the Stalls. And to get out again with my life."

"A simple order, for Siggen." The fat man had his vanity. "Give me a
day to plan it. You have my word."

"Can I depend on it?"

"Men have said many things about Siggen, but never that his word was
not good."

"Then it's settled," Ostby said. "I'll be back tomorrow."

"Just a minute before you go." The old man unclasped his puffy hands.
"You are an unusual man and you intrigue me. Would you mind telling me
your name?"

"Not at all. It's James Ostby."

"Ostby ... Ostby ..." the fat man pondered slowly. Then his head came
up. "The Berserker!" he said. He whistled low, under his breath. "Tell
me," he said, "why have we never met before. Or, if not, why are we
meeting now?"

Ostby shrugged. "Perhaps because I have little confidence in others."

"You do have the reputation of being a lone wolf." Siggen remarked
slowly. "After this business is over I'd be glad to consider
consolidating our, ah, talents. We could go far together."

"You offer me this when you know me so little?"

"The best test of good relations between men is an instinctive liking,"
Siggen said. "I feel we have this, plus a common purpose."

"I'll think it over," Ostby replied. "In the meantime I'll expect
results tomorrow."

Ostby lay flat on his stomach with his head facing the window in front
of him. The window was set flush with the floor and he had a good view
of the Stalls across the street.

The Stalls was a squat, three-story building, with a basement and a
sub-basement. The upper three stories were occupied by government
offices. The basement housed the heating equipment and was used as a
storage space. But it was the sub-basement that gave the place its
name. Here the slaves were kept until sold.

       *       *       *       *       *

The deserted office room in which Ostby lay had been closed for many
months, and it was hot inside, and close. The sun shining through the
windows added to the heat, and the film of moisture that bathed his
body had long since developed small rivulets that collected in sodden
patches of his clothing.

"How much longer will it be, Groves?" Ostby asked.

"There's no way of knowing." The young man who sat with his back
resting against the wall had wilted under the heat and crawled over out
of the sunlight. "As soon as it's safe," he said. "Let me know if you
see anyone coming out."

"I thought Siggen had fixed it so we could get in without any trouble?"

"He bribed the guards," Groves replied. "But you saw those two men go
in. I recognized one of them as Boorrls of the secret police. They're
liable to turn up any place, any time. We'd be sticking our necks out
to go in while they're there."

For another ten minutes neither man said a word. A big drop of moisture
collected on the cleft in the middle of Ostby's chin. He wished he were
certain that he could trust Groves. Groves was an open-faced young
man with candor in his blue eyes, and a ready smile that asked for
confidence, but somewhere in the man's makeup was a black streak, Ostby
reckoned.

All morning Ostby's infallible intuition had throbbed a slow pulse
of warning. He knew better than to disregard that warning but when
he turned to thieves for help he had no right to expect sterling
characters for companions.

Siggen should have enough control over his men to make Groves afraid
to double-cross him. And, strangely enough, Ostby trusted Siggen. His
intuition told him that Siggen was a man true to his own principles,
distorted though they might be.

Ostby had seen another facet of Siggen's character that morning. When
he had returned to the house Siggen had introduced him to Groves, and
the three of them had gone down into the fat man's basement.

"I want to show you a pretty sight," Siggen said.

Lying on the basement floor was the body of a man. A knife was buried
in his throat. The dead mouth that smiled up at Ostby was widened by a
long scar.

"What will we do when we get in the Stalls?" Groves interrupted Ostby's
reflections.

Ostby did not answer, but turned his head to look at the young man,
long and levelly.

"It's none of my business, of course," Groves added hurriedly, "but I
won't be much help in case of trouble if I don't even know what you're
trying to do."

"If trouble comes we just get out as fast as we can."

"You aren't going to try to get one of the slaves out, are you? You
told Siggen that you only wanted to get in, and get out again."

"That's all I want."

"It you're trying to close the 'door,' what would you want in...."
Abruptly Groves stopped talking. Ostby read the dismay in his voice as
he realized that he had said too much.

Ostby rolled over on his side, bringing his gun up and firing in the
same motion. Groves had his own gun drawn when the slug caught him in
the forehead and slapped his head back as though riding the blow of a
fist. Slowly he fell sideways along the wall.

Ostby was on his feet immediately. He'd have to move fast now, he knew.
No one but the police, or someone high in the Imperator's confidence,
would know that he was here to close the "door" between the worlds.
Groves had made a bad slip.

In Groves' right rear pocket Ostby found a black billfold. Inside was
a white card with the word, _Confidential_, written on it. He found
nothing else of interest. But that was enough to wipe away Ostby's last
doubt. Sweat broke out anew on his forehead as he realized how close
the trap had come to closing around him. He might be too late already.

On the other hand, he reflected, perhaps this would be the moment when
boldness would accomplish more than it ever could have in the past. He
had been able to get nowhere in the past months with caution, and this
time, being so close, he would not turn back.


                                  III

Ostby entered the Stalls through a back door. The building was built on
a hill. At the front, the first floor was on the ground level. But the
door Ostby entered opened into the sub-basement.

The card he had taken from Groves gained him ready admittance. He
flashed it once again to the clerk seated at a desk in the inner
office. The clerk nodded respectfully and Ostby went through into the
main section of the sub-basement; the section housing the slaves.

The stench that struck his nostrils was nauseating. It stank of men too
closely crowded, of unwashed bodies, and of inadequate sanitation.

The place was dimly lit.

Ostby waved back the "trusty" who came forward to meet him, and went
alone along the stalls. At each gate he paused to look through the
thick mesh wire at the hope-deadened specimens who lay apathetically on
the uncleaned floor. Some of the prisoners were criminals of the state,
but most of them were captive Earth people.

Ostby did not pause long at any compartment until he reached one in the
corner of the huge room. He studied the creature seated in a wall-crook
staring back at him. The slave's beard was an inch long and his
features were hardly recognizable, yet something about him held Ostby's
attention.

After a short minute Ostby said, "Detroit," in a low tone.

The prisoner did not move but his eyes glinted in the dim light as he
opened them wider. His lips formed the sound, "Tigers," as he answered
the code word.

"What have they done with Rohr?" Ostby asked.

"I'm afraid you're too late," the slave answered. "The guard took him
away yesterday--through that door, over on the far side. If he's still
alive, they're probably torturing him right now."

"I'll be back," Ostby said, and he walked rapidly toward the door the
prisoner had indicated.

Once inside Ostby flashed his card at the guard sitting on a desk,
paring his fingernails. "Where's the spy?" he asked briskly.

"Straight through," the guard answered. "Inspector Boorrls is working
on him now."

In the back room Ostby closed the door behind him and stood with his
back against it. The two men standing in the center of the room turned
to look at him. He let the silence grow thin without speaking. It was
with an effort that he kept his eyes from the figure that hung by its
wrist tendons, on steel hooks suspended from the ceiling.

The taller of the two men shifted his feet uncomfortably, and wiped his
right palm along the leg of his trousers. "What do you want?" he asked
irritably.

Ostby drew his card from his pocket and showed it to them. "I'm direct
from the Imperator," he said. "Which one of you is Boorrls?"

"I am," the tall man answered.

"Have you made him talk yet?"

"No. He's stubborn as all hell. But he'll talk soon or I'll kill him."

"That's what the Imperator was afraid of," Ostby said bleakly. "And
that's why he sent me. Now get out while I try to save what you may
have lost already with your stupidity."

For a moment the inspector seemed determined to bluff it out. "What did
you say?" he asked pugnaciously.

"I said get out!" Ostby's voice did not rise, but there was no
mistaking the threat behind it.

Boorrls broke easily. He was a bully. "C'mon, Jorg," he mumbled and the
two men left the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

The figure suspended on the hooks could not see Ostby. Where his eyes
had been were now only bloody orifices. His stomach was cut to ribbons
and the inside organs showed through. He was beyond the help of any
doctor.

He seemed to have recognized Ostby's voice. His lips and tongue moved
agonizingly as he strove to speak. When he finally succeeded his voice
came from far back in his throat--hardly more than a whisper. "For
God's sake," the voice croaked, "kill me! Please!"

Ostby repressed a shudder as he gently touched the tortured man's leg.

They had picked him, back on Earth, for this job because his was a
sensitive organism, keyed with "high survival characteristics."

His nervous system was geared exceptionally high, and its acute
reflexes with their delicate balance of intricate excitations made his
response to stimuli proportionately more rapid than that of other men.

Yet this very sensitiveness of brain and nerve fiber made the brutal
circumstances with which he was forced to cope all the more difficult
to endure. It was ironical that the very qualities that made him the
most fit for this dangerous kind of work, made him suffer the greatest
under its harshness.

Ostby could remember how, even as a child, he had suffered through this
keenness of emotional reaction. His empathy with any person or animal
in distress always caused him pain nearly as great as that of the
sufferer.

In later years he had developed a philosophy that helped carry him
through most of those trying times. He had never exactly defined that
philosophy but it encompassed the ability to recognize "the little
things as little, and the big things as big; and to laugh in the face
of the inevitable, to smile even at the looming death."

This philosophy was never able to give him the shell of hardness which
would have shielded him from most of the meanness of the world, but it
had given him the strength to bear it.

Now the suffering of the wretched creature before him played along
Ostby's nerves like a live flame.

"Everything will be over in a minute," he said softly. He opened his
shirt front and exposed a mesh-weave vest fitted close against his
skin. In the innumerable pockets of the vest he carried everything he
owned on this world.

From one of the pockets he drew a hypodermic syringe with a plastic
vial filled with light green liquid. He pushed the needle into the
flesh of the hanging man's leg, and pressed the plunger home.

A moment later the suspended figure sighed once, long and gratefully,
and was still. They would never be able to torture him again.

Ostby studied the mechanism that held the hooks, but could find no way
to lower the body. Impatiently he pulled a chair over and stood on it.
He probed the body's thin left forearm with his thumbs until he found
the spot he sought.

Drawing a sharp scalpel from his vest he cut a thin slit through the
flesh. When he felt the blade touch something solid he probed deeply
into the cut and brought out a small, innocuous appearing capsule. The
cut did not bleed and Ostby pressed its sides together. It appeared no
different than many of the other cuts on the emaciated body.

He hesitated no longer than it took to pick the exact spot he wanted on
his own forearm. If they had been unable to find the hiding place on
Rohr, it should serve as well for him.

With almost surgical skill he cut a small slit in the flesh of his
forearm. Probing with the scalpel until he had opened a small pocket,
he placed the capsule in the opening and forced it down. From the vest
he removed a flat carton and sprinkled sulpha powder into the cut. In
a few days time it would heal and there would be no mark left of the
hiding place. If he could only buy that few days' time!

Ostby stepped through into the outer office. Boorrls and his aide
were nowhere about. That could be dangerous. His time was undoubtedly
running short.

Ostby walked back to the stall of the prisoner he had conferred with
earlier, at the same time motioning the trusty over to him. "Open this
stall and let me in," he commanded.

"Lock it again and leave us alone," he said to the trusty as he
entered. The trusty obeyed and left.

Ostby turned immediately to the prisoner. "This is it," he said. "We'll
have to move fast." He took a flat tube from one of his vest pockets
and tossed it over. "First, get rid of that beard. But be sure to leave
a mustache and a chin beard like mine."

The slave applied the depilatory to his beard. "What about Rohr?" he
asked.

"Dead," Ostby answered laconically as he removed his clothes.

Neither said anything more as the slave washed his face and wet his
hair from a trough of dirty water. In the meantime Ostby dirtied his
own face and hands. The slave stripped and they exchanged clothes.

"Rattle on the gate," Ostby said after they finished. "It's not very
bright in here, and with that mustache and beard you should pass for me
without any trouble. But don't give them more chance than necessary to
spot the deception by wasting any time."

Five minutes later Ostby was alone--just another grimy slave curled up
in his filthy sty. A perfect hideout. The last place they would look
for him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sometime during the morning of the third day Ostby was awakened by the
rattling of the wire gate of his stall. He rolled over on his side and
looked out. The trusty who brought him his food twice a day was shaking
the gate.

"On your feet," he said, "and make it snappy."

Ostby climbed erect without argument. He had no intention of directing
attention to himself by making trouble. By now his black hair and beard
were matted with dirt, his skin was soiled with many thicknesses of
grime, and he stunk with the stench of the prison blocks.

A few minutes later a short man--approximately six feet tall, but
short for these people--bustled importantly forward. He was dressed
in lace-adorned dress which proclaimed him one of this world's
aristocracy. The newcomer eyed Ostby disdainfully for a moment and then
passed on without a word.

Later the self-important dandy returned with the trusty in tow. He
stopped in front of Ostby's cage. "Bring him out here where I can get a
better look at him," he ordered.

The trusty unlocked the gate and Ostby shuffled out.

"He's a filthy looking beast," the nobleman remarked, as he slowly
circled Ostby. He evidenced only the interest of a man appraising an
animal. "However, he seems to have a splendid body beneath those layers
of dirt. I'll take him, but I suppose I'll find him rotten with disease
when I have him cleaned up."

The trusty and one of the guards snapped a leg-iron around Ostby's left
ankle while the nobleman went into the office to pay for his purchase.
They led Ostby out to a waiting carriage and secured the other end of
his leg-iron to a bolt set in the floor of the carriage. Two of the
nobleman's liveried servants seated themselves on either side of Ostby.
The nobleman sat across from them.

They drove for almost a half-hour before the carriage stopped in front
of a low, one-storied stone building. No one spoke. The servants
alighted, and one of them unlocked Ostby's leg-iron from its bolt in
the floor.

"Step down," the nearest servant said.

Ostby obeyed and they walked, with Ostby again between them, toward the
stone house. The nobleman remained in the carriage.

One of the servants opened the unlocked door of the stone house and the
other shoved Ostby through the doorway. They closed the door behind
him, and he stood in a dark room, blinded by the sudden change from
bright sunlight. The first sight that met his eyes, as they adjusted to
the dim light lurking under the drawn shades, was the familiar one of a
fat man slumped in an easy chair!

"Welcome to my new abode," Siggen said.

The events of the past hour snapped into place in Ostby's mind in an
instant and he evidenced no surprise as he smiled back at Siggen. He
even debated with himself whether or not Siggen had done him a service
by taking him from his foolproof hiding place so soon. But then he had
another in mind that should serve as well if he had not underestimated
his influence with the Duchess, Rinda.

"You pay your debts, I see," he said.

"Siggen's word is his bond," the fat man said. "I told you I would get
you in and get you out. Our bargain is now complete."

"Your man put on a good act as a nobleman," Ostby said. "He fooled me
as completely as he did the guards."

"It was no act," Siggen replied. "He is a nobleman. But he owed Siggen
a favor."

"Good work," Ostby said. "Accept my thanks. Incidentally, I suppose you
know by now that your man, Groves, was a secret agent?"

"No, I did not," Siggen answered. "I wondered why he never returned. I
presume you took care of him?"

"Yes," Ostby replied.

"Good," Siggen said. "I almost missed knowing they had you. The reports
were that the Berserker had been shot leaving the Stalls. But I sent a
man to check on it and he reported that the man shot by the police was
not you."

So poor Barbasiewiez had not gotten away, Ostby reflected sadly. And
Rohr, too, was dead. That left him completely alone. But he had made
some progress. He had the capsule. If the Duchess would hide him until
he was ready for his next action he might still be able to close the
"door." "Can you get me a carriage?" he asked Siggen.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I think you'd be taking too big a chance if you went to the palace,
even with the crowd there for the ball," the Duchess said.

Her anxiety made Ostby a bit uncomfortable. Their flirtation was no
longer a game with her. He felt a bit guilty whenever he observed, by
the thousand little signs she gave, that she was in love with him.

In ordinary times he might have loved her, also; but he was a man who
never did things by halves. He had come to this world for one purpose,
and he would not allow himself to be diverted from it--not even by a
woman so fascinating as Rinda!

He looked at her now, beside him, with her rich brown hair done up in a
pug on the back of her neck, and intertwined with a string of matched
pearls; her soft skin, which the sun had turned to the shade of golden
honey; and her red lips.

She returned the look, her blue eyes warm with love. She was a tall
woman, well-formed, and she rested languidly against her cushions, but
deep within Ostby could read the quiescent female vitality that rode
her always.

"I'm afraid that I have no choice," he said gently. "It's something
that I must do."

He was glad that she had never questioned him in the week he had been
with her, since his escape from the Stalls. She knew only that he was
doing something unlawful, and that the police wanted him badly.

But she was a temperamental woman, Ostby knew, and her moods were as
sudden and mercurial as a tropic storm. Now he observed one of those
sudden changes building up within her.

"I've decided not to let you go," she said. "It's too dangerous."

Ostby had had enough experience with her to know that temporizing was
useless. It hurt him to be brutal, especially when he realized that
her stubbornness was prompted by concern for him, but he could not let
himself be detained now. "I must," he said, "and there's no use our
arguing about it."

"I said you're not going," she repeated.

"If you wish, I'll return when I'm able," Ostby said, rising.

She, too, recognized the inflexible spirit in him, and passion flared
up suddenly in her face. A flush of blood darkened the olive of her
skin. She twisted in sudden fury and buried her teeth in the flesh of
his wrist.

Ostby reached over with his free hand and dug his fingers deeply into
the ridge of her jawbone.

"I'll kill you for that!" she gritted, releasing her grip.

Ostby knew they had gone too far now for any hope of reconciliation.
He bent her arms behind her back and bound them tightly with the long
sleeves of her gown.

The Duchess was relaxed now, making no attempt to resist him. Her face
had gone hard and the skin was stretched tightly across her cheekbones.

She said nothing as he bound her feet and gagged her. But the venom in
her eyes made him pause. This woman was not soft, he saw, and he knew
he had made an enemy who would be ruthless. He did not look back as he
left the room but he could feel her gaze following him--hating him, as
only a frustrated woman can hate!


                                  IV

He glanced up at the huge square frame of the palace, crouched like
a great machine waiting to devour him. There was something about the
building that was subtle, mysterious, luring. Engraved in deep convex
letters above the door was the motto of the Imperator: THE WORLD
BELONGS TO THE STRONG. Now for the first time, Ostby thought, he was
to meet that controversial figure face to face.

There was no formal greeting of the entering guests. Two liveried
servants stood at either side of the entrance, eyeing, politely but
carefully, each entrant. They did not stop Ostby and he passed through
the doorway. He deposited his outer wrap with still other servants
inside, and mingled unobtrusively with the guests in the wide entrance
hall.

For a half-hour Ostby loitered about the edge of the thickening crowd,
wearing an expression of abstract concentration that discouraged
conversation. At the end of that time the Imperator had not appeared.
Ostby decided to wait no longer.

Walking casually down a long corridor that led into the palace he began
his search for the man he wanted. The occasional servants he met asked
no questions. They merely nodded politely and went about their duties.

When he came to a long circular stairway he walked quickly up. He knew
that the closer he came to his goal the greater would be the risk. But
this was not the time for surreptitious conniving. Only action would
produce results now.

A door opened suddenly behind him and a voice said, "Keep walking."

Strangely Ostby was glad to hear the voice.

"I'm not moving," he said.

A gun pressed against his back and he knew the time had come to act.
Pivoting on the balls of his feet he knocked aside the hand that held
the gun with his left arm. As he completed the pivot he aimed his right
fist at the stranger's face.

His assailant rolled with the blow and it caught him with glancing
force on the chin. But it was hard enough to drive him off his feet.

Ostby followed swiftly, but his opponent turned like a cat and kicked
both feet into his stomach. The kick knocked the breath from Ostby's
lungs. Black circles ringed his vision and the only thing that worked
then was instinct. He grabbed at the ankles as the man's feet came up
again. Letting the momentum of the kick furnish most of the power, he
pulled on the ankles in a circular jerk that lifted the man clear off
the floor.

Ostby swung him around in a wide circle, scraping his head and
shoulders on the wall of the hallway, before releasing his grip. The
gunman crashed unconscious against the far wall.

Ostby took two steps forward, and a blinding light bathed his body! He
turned, raising one leg to retreat, and found himself fighting with an
awful exertion to set it down again!

The air had become viscous, and he took one step that felt as though he
were walking in freshly mixed cement. The cement hardened rapidly and
held him rigid. Next his vision blurred, and he stood with all power of
motion gone. His respiratory function was his only movement.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was no longer rational enough to judge when the agony in his muscles
changed their tenor to the sensation of a thousand needles being
stabbed into his flesh. Somehow he knew that this meant the paralysis
was leaving.

The first muscles to free themselves were those in the lids of his
eyes. He opened them and found himself staring into the iciest, most
emotionless eyes he had ever seen. Strangely enough they were brown
eyes yet they gave the definite impression of being colorless.

The eyes were in a face carved with lines of craglike pride.
Strength and ruthlessness breathed in every feature. Ostby needed no
introduction to know that the face belonged to the Imperator!

A voice said, "He can see and hear now. But his power of speech and
movement won't return for a few minutes." The voice came from Ostby's
right. He was unable to turn to see who spoke.

The Imperator smiled. "My Name is Magogar," he said to Ostby in a voice
an octave lower then normal. "I've been waiting a long time to meet
you."

Ostby returned the look, wordlessly--all he was capable of doing.

"We'll begin our discussion," Magogar said, "with my telling you that I
know you are the one they call the Berserker, what your mission is, and
much else about you that you may not suspect. On the other hand, there
are many things you do not know about me, and, strange as it may seem,
there are some things concerning yourself that you do not know.

"When you were first brought into our world," Magogar continued, "you
made the mistake of confiding in several of your fellow captives,
thinking that they would aid you. Needless to say, one of them talked.
That last I probably don't have to tell you; you must have guessed,
because you made your escape soon after. You didn't even try your
preconcocted story."

"You knew about that too?" Ostby asked, and was surprised that he was
able to speak again.

"Yes. You were right in believing that your confidants would be
sympathetic to your schemes, but you forgot one thing. Men can be made
to talk."

Ostby had recovered some of his self-possession by this time. "If you
know, tell me what that plan was," he said.

"Certainly," Magogar replied. He rose to his feet and walked with long
strides about the room. Ostby was surprised at the breath and girth of
the man. At first glance he appeared squat. But that appearance was
a deception caused by his great bulk. He was as tall as Ostby, but
heavier of bone, and must have weighed a hundred pounds more. He walked
heavily, each step landing forcefully on the heel of the foot.

"One of our ships," the Imperator said, "read your distress signal of
colored rocks and picked you up. Your story was to be that you were
a survivor of a ship of ours which crashed twenty years earlier. I
believe you had established quite an authentic story. Your mother and
father had been hurt, and died several years after the crash, you said.
But not before they had taught you, their six-year-old son, to care for
himself, to pass as one of the people of the world in which you found
yourself, and last, how to establish contact with us. It was a good
story, and its background was authentic. Tell me, why did you decide
not to use it?"

Ostby shrugged. "Mainly because I made the mistake of confiding my
plans to several of your prisoners. And you forced one of them to talk."

Unexpectedly Magogar no longer seemed to be paying attention to Ostby.
He had turned his head and was looking to his left. It was then Ostby
remembered that he had made no effort to discover to whom the other
voice he had heard belonged. The thought of it now made him realize
how much his faculties had been dulled by their session under the
paralysis. Ordinarily, by this time he would have had every detail
of the room catalogued in his mind. He hastened now to correct the
omission.

The sight that met his eyes as he turned his head was one that would
stay with him for all the years of his life!

A square, paneled box, supported by four sturdy legs, rested against
the wall, across the room from them. In the center of the box was a
large eye!

The eye had no pupil; its entire surface was one of mottled streaks
of gray, pink, and black. The colors slowly flowed and changed,
following a seemingly erratic pattern. It was the weirdest sight
Ostby ever expected to see. And behind and through it all glowed
intelligence--human, reasoning intelligence!

Vaguely, through his momentary funk, Ostby heard the Imperator's voice,
"Allow me to introduce you to the Brain."

Then those vague rumors he had heard had been true, Ostby reflected, or
at least some facets of them. He had heard talk--which he had regarded
as superstitions--that the Imperator possessed the living brain of
a man long dead, a brain of infinite wisdom, and possessing all the
knowledge there was to be had. Ostby was forced to believe in its
existence now, for here he was faced with the living proof.

Once again Magogar's words interrupted his reverie. But the words were
not directed at him. "He's here now. What did you want to ask before I
have him killed?"

"You may change your mind about that after you hear what I have to
say," a voice from the box answered. "You call yourself Ostby," it
said. "Do you remember your father or your mother?"

Ostby stared at the apparition, not answering. The reality of the
present situation, and yet its impossibility, was overwhelming.

The voice in the box continued. "I believe that I am safe in assuming
that you do not remember them. I would like now to give you a
hypothetical problem. If we were to assume that everything upon which
you built your life were false: that the men you trusted lied to you:
that you are not even who and what you believe you are ... what would
you do?"

The voice paused, but Ostby remained silent and it went on, "The
records of the people of our world, who crashed in yours, I assume you
studied very carefully. That would be necessary to make your planned
deception more effective. Their names were Shemolang and Roelang. Am I
correct?"

Ostby nodded. The Brain went on. "Shemolang was no ordinary man. He was
first in line for the Imperator office, after Magogar."

The voice shifted its focus by some subtle change of the vision in the
eye, and Ostby knew that it no longer addressed him. "Will you look in
the files and find a picture there of Shemolang, Magogar?"

The Imperator brought his attention to alertness with an obvious effort
of will. He had been listening as intently as Ostby. Now he rose and
walked to the indicated files.

After a minute he drew a picture from one of the files and studied
it. The Imperator gasped and murmured, "I had almost forgotten how he
looked."

"Show the picture to Mr. Ostby, will you please?" the Brain said.

Ostby took the picture and the first glance sent a shock through his
system that started as a weight in the pit of his stomach and flooded
his body like fever. The picture that looked back at him was very
nearly a replica of himself!

"Your father," the Brain interrupted his thoughts. "You not only have
had a vast deception practiced upon you, but you have been fighting
your own people!"


                                   V

That night Ostby slept very little. In his thoughts two emotions
fought for dominance. On the one side were the people of Earth--he
still thought of it as his Earth. He had lived with them; they were
his friends; their problems and joys had always been his--until now.
The menace to them had been his to share, and to help eliminate. He
had accepted this assignment knowing that, at best, he would never be
able to return; at worst, that he would be killed. And he had taken it
willingly.

Now he knew that he had been duped. He had been an alien among the
people he loved. And they had sent him to fight his own kind!

His final decision came hard, but by morning he had made his choice.

He rose early but had to wait until well into the afternoon before the
Imperator put in an appearance.

Magogar greeted Ostby with a smile, but there was no friendliness in
it. He was a man who made no friends. The people about him were divided
into two classes: those who served or obeyed him, and those who opposed
him. The latter did not survive long.

"Step out onto the sun balcony with me," the Imperator said, with the
easy assurance of a man accustomed to obedience. He strolled to the
railing of the balcony and leaned against it, looking out over the
water of the city's harbor. The balcony extended out over the water,
which came directly up to a small walk bordering the palace.

"I have given your case very deep thought," the Imperator said, "and I
will be perfectly frank with you. Whether I accept you or dispose of
you will be directly determined by what I decide within the immediate
future. There is no point in my asking your views because your range of
choices is very small, and entirely incidental to my decision. You can
willingly accept whatever I decide for you--if I let you live--or you
can oppose me. The latter, of course, would be tantamount to asking for
death. Do you have anything to say before we continue?"

"Not knowing what you have to offer leaves me with no possibility of
making a choice," Ostby said carefully.

It was immediately evident, however, that he had made a wrong choice
of words. The Imperator's arrogant brows rose and he frowned. "I never
_offer_ anything," he said, spacing each word with a hard emphasis,
"except the choice of accepting my decisions."

When Ostby made no reply, Magogar seated himself and remained in deep
introspection.

"Let me tell you a story," he said finally. "At first it may sound
like idle boasting, but I can readily demonstrate to you that I am the
living proof of its authenticity."

The Imperator paused while he tilted back his chair and stared at
the ceiling. "In the early years of man's existence," he said, "he
possessed two physical survival characteristics. First, he could
run. As he was one of the weakest of the animals he found that most
expeditious. And because the instinct to run grew to occupy a prominent
place in his emotional makeup, it enabled him to survive.

"The other survival factor was to fight. The fighters died an earlier
death than did those that ran, and they had fewer progeny. But those
fighters that lived ruled the tribes.

"During each generation these separate instincts developed and became
more virile. The numbers of the fleers propagated and soon the mass of
the human race consisted of their descendants. The fighters, however,
ruled the tribes, as was logical. They were the doers, and became the
leaders.

"I, Mr. Ostby, am a direct descendant of this long line of
fighters--perhaps its culmination. I have never known fear, and I never
flee! I have inherited the strength of those ancestors, and I rule
now because I am the strongest man in the world, both mentally and
physically. The world belongs to the strong, and I am the strongest.
Let that weigh heavily in every thought you have concerning me."

Ostby found himself wondering in amazement at the colossal pride that
could give birth to such thought processes.

"Now," the Imperator went on, "let me give you one last warning before
you leave. You may be in line for my position, and you must prove to
me that you are strong enough to take my place, if that ever becomes
necessary. On the other hand if your strength evidences itself by the
slightest opposition to me, I will kill you. Thus you have a fine line
to walk, with your life hanging in the balance.

"This concludes our interview until later this afternoon," the
Imperator said. "I would suggest, in the meantime, that you consult the
Brain. He can supply you with an understanding of our background which
you may find useful."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ostby was glad the Imperator had suggested his speaking with the Brain.
He had made his decision now, but there was much the Brain could tell
him that he needed to know.

He walked down one flight and into the room housing the Brain. When
he arrived he found it awake and obviously watching him. Once again
he experienced a vast discomfort in meeting that giant eye, with its
mottled apperception. He wondered uneasily if it had the power to read
his mind.

Ostby's unease was not lessened by the Brain's first words. "You have
finished your interview with the Imperator," it said. "Evidently you
were wise enough not to antagonize him or you would not be here now. Is
there anything special you would like to ask me?"

There was much he wanted to learn from the Brain and Ostby had no
hesitation in replying.

"What are you?" he asked without preliminaries. "How old are you, and
just what is the extent of your powers?"

For a moment Ostby was afraid that he had, in some way, made a wrong
approach, and that the Brain would refuse to answer him, for it was
silent. But finally it said, quietly, "Perhaps one question at a time
would be better for both of us. I can answer directly then, and you
will be able to assimilate the answers more easily. Some of them will
have many ramifications and require supplementary explanations.

"I am over five hundred years old. I was originally a man, the same as
yourself, and one of the few real scientists our race has produced.
I limited my activity to no one field, but delved into anything that
interested me. One of my interests was longevity. When I decided that
immortality was limited by the weaknesses of the bodily vehicle to
which I was tied, I designed this instrument in which my brain resides,
and trained others to make the essential transfer. Does that answer
your questions?"

"All except the extent of your intellectual ability. The rumor is that
you know everything."

"That, of course, is ridiculous. Knowledge is like a fan-shaped wave;
beginning with the first fact learned, and spreading wider and wider
the more one learns. I started with an exceptional intellect, and for
five hundred years have acquired as much knowledge as that intellect,
and a vast curiosity, could give me."

"I see," Ostby said as he framed the next question in his mind. "What
is your relationship with the Imperator?" he asked. "Are you an ally or
a servant?"

"That is a bit difficult to answer," the Brain said, "because it
depends on the viewpoint of the observer. As far as Magogar is
concerned, I suppose I am both, though surely more of a servant than
an equal. As I regard it, he is merely another man, though one who
supplies me with most of the material for speculation which I desire."

"Are you loyal to him?"

"As you mean it, no. Loyalty implies an emotional basis. I'm afraid
that I have none of the standard emotions. I will answer any question
put to me by anyone. I care nothing about the purpose of the question
or to what use the answer is put."

"Could I ask a question, in confidence, and be certain that you would
not reveal that I did so to the Imperator?" Ostby asked. This could be
placing his neck in the noose, he knew, and he waited anxiously for the
answer.

"No," the Brain replied. "I would volunteer nothing to him, but I would
tell him anything he asked."

Ostby decided that he needed time to think over this facet of the Brain
before he ventured further. First, he would attempt to learn other
facts which he might need later. Perhaps he could even obtain the
answer he wanted in a roundabout way. "What is the population of your
world?" he asked.

"Approximately seven million. Over a million live here, in Yarr, our
one mechanized city."

"Why is it that you have so little technology, as compared with the
Earth?"

"I suppose that its basis is our low birth rate," the Brain answered.
"There is ample living space here, as well as natural resources, to
supply our people's needs. Thus there is little necessity for them to
shape and remake their environment. It is always easiest to accept
nature as it is, if that can be done with a minimum of self-adjusting."

"Then why is this city of Yarr different?"

"Yarr is the creation of one man, a man hungry for power, for the
authority, and the strength to dominate everything about him; to hold
the lives of men and women in the hollow of his hand. That man, you
will recognize, is Magogar. In his creed strength is right; in fact, it
is everything. It is the philosophy that controls him, and through him,
the city. Under his rule the unfit are killed, or at best, allowed to
perish on the ragged confines of our artificial civilization."

"What is your opinion of that philosophy?"

"Magogar is wrong, beyond a doubt," the Brain answered unhesitatingly.
"Any species survives and develops through cooperation, and
self-restraint of its individual members. Ruthless self-assertion is a
stumbling block to human progress. Magogar is right when he says that
the world belongs to the strong. It must, by the very constitution of
man. But a ruler who is merely strong will inevitably be overthrown.
Eventually the world will be governed by the strong, but by the strong
who are noble as well."

"Magogar's philosophy seems to me to be the outgrowth of an overweening
pride," Ostby said.

"Perhaps. Up to a point self-admiration is not to be deplored. But in
excess it is an evil thing."

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, Ostby decided, was the time to ask his vital question. "Don't
you think that you and your people would be better off if the 'door'
between the worlds were closed?" He held his breath while he waited for
the answer.

"You are making a mistake if you associate me, in your mind, with my
world's people," the Brain said. "Not having a body to inspire emotion,
wants and desires, I am tied to them by nothing. Whether they are
better or worse off concerns me not at all. Whether they are happy,
or even all die, concerns me equally as little. But you are right.
The 'door' is a bad thing for them. This city is a parasite. All its
technology, its customs, its sins, its vices, are copied from your
Earth. Without the 'door' this city, this artificial oddity, would
vanish. Its inhabitants would disperse and resume their pastoral life,
where, I assure you, they would be much happier.

"And the solution to this is, as you say, the closing of the 'door.'
Because every machine we have, that we did not steal, is manufactured
by captives from Earth."

He was in too deep to back out now, Ostby decided. He plunged
recklessly into the next question. "Can you tell me something about the
operation of the 'door'?"

"This is not the first time the 'door' has appeared between our
worlds," the Brain said, "though I know very little about its original
appearance. Practically all I know about that is the result of abstract
speculation. It appeared at least once before, thousands of years ago.
My own theory is that at that time there was a mass migration from our
world to yours, and that the present Earth people are descendants of
our own ancestors."

The Brain paused for a long minute before continuing. "I have studied
many of the writings of the Earth, and am quite certain that I know
more about its history than its average citizen. Do you recall the
evidence found concerning the Cro-Magnon man of Earth's prehistoric
ages? It seems that the so-called Neanderthal man was the animal that
most nearly approached the present homo sapiens, until suddenly--as
such things are reckoned--he was supplanted by another, much more
advanced species of man, the Cro-Magnon. My research leads me to
believe that those Cro-Magnon men migrated from our world to yours!"

A dozen questions sprang to Ostby's mind concerning this fascinating
theory, but he put them aside impatiently. He was a man with a bulldog
tenacity of purpose, and he had no intention of wasting time on
questions prompted by idle curiosity.

"That's a very interesting theory," he said, "and I would like to
discuss it more fully some other time. But for now, are you telling me
that the 'door' is a natural phenomenon?"

"Not the present 'door,'" the Brain replied. "It was created,
approximately twenty years ago, by the concentration and intellectual
power of one mind--my own!"

"But how did you do it?"

"I don't know how much knowledge you have of physics," the Brain said
slowly. "The explanation is a bit technical for the untrained man to
understand. However, I'll explain it as simply as I can.

"Matter, as you probably know, is made up of tiny electrified bodies
called electrons. When measurements were made it was found that
the whole mass of the electron is due to its electrical charge.
The inevitable conclusion is that the material universe is not the
substantial, objective thing it was formerly thought to be. Matter
is a completely spectral thing with no actual substance. The idea of
substance must be replaced by that of behavior.

"Thus, opening the 'door' became a problem of controlling that behavior
in such a way as to create a refraction of the matter separating
worlds. That is not as simple as it may sound because a mind, to be
able to do it, must possess a thorough understanding of the forces it
deals with. It must have a tremendous capacity for concentration, and
its logic must be entirely uninfluenced by emotion. I believe it is
safe to say that no other mind, before mine, has ever combined these
qualities in sufficient degree to accomplish the deed."

Strangely Ostby was not too surprised by this revelation. The makers of
the capsule residing in the flesh of his left forearm had concluded, as
a result of their studies, that the "door" might be the product of mind
power. Their greatest mistake had been that it would take the combined
power of at least eight brilliant minds to achieve the necessary matter
refraction.

Here, then, lay the end of his search, Ostby knew. He regretted that
its conclusion must entail the death of the Brain.

Somewhat as a form of apology he said, "It probably won't surprise you
too much to know that I have decided to continue my fight on the side
of the people of Earth. I am not going to let the accident of ancestry
blind me to the justice of their cause. Also, regardless of my personal
feelings, I must do whatever is necessary to attain my end. Do you see
what I am trying to say?"

"I do," the Brain answered. "Your next question is, will I consent to
close the 'door' voluntarily. My answer will be no, and then you will
say that you must kill me. Am I right?"

Ostby nodded. "Tell me," he said, "are you not afraid to die?"

"The instinct of self-preservation is as strong in me as it ever was."

"Then I can only offer you my deepest regrets for what I must do."
Ostby rose and gripped the back of his chair--he should be able to
smash the brain-box with that, he decided--and found himself unable to
lift it!

"And I must offer my regrets at the necessity of defending myself," the
Brain said ironically. "I will allow no one to harm me. I am going to
release you from my mental grip now, and I want you to leave this room.
Never come in my presence again with the intent to harm me or I will be
forced to kill you." The voice was entirely emotionless throughout.

Ostby's strength returned in a warm wave that washed his body free of
the stasis that bound him, and vigor flowed back into his muscles. But
he knew he was helpless before the unnormal powers of the mind before
him, and he turned and left the room.


                                  VI

By the time Ostby reached the outer balcony a black frustration clogged
his veins. To be so close and still be unable to act. He was willing
to give his life to close the "door," but every way he turned he found
himself battering against walls of futility. The anger within him
now, so close to despair, was more than he could control. His reason
feared that anger and he fought against it, but it went with him like a
tangible thing and he knew that he could no longer restrain it.

The sight of the Imperator lounging in an easy chair on the balcony,
his face, arrogant and powerful, set in its habitual expression of
disdainful hauteur, did nothing to ease Ostby's emotional storm.

"I've been reading the police reports concerning you and giving them
some thought," the Imperator's voice laid its heavy weight on him. "My
conclusions are not very flattering. I find you lack many admirable
qualities. I'm about convinced that your dominant characteristics are
cunning and guile rather than strength. If there is one thing I hate
it's a dissembling man."

"You could be wrong," Ostby said, so softly that only a man as
confident and self-assured as the Imperator would have missed the
pent-up force behind the softness.

The Imperator waved his hand negligently. "I'll admit that you
displayed ingenuity in hiding from the police," he said, "and you have
a certain amount of animal-like adaptation to danger. But when you
fought it was only with the desperation of a cornered rat! Your most
noteworthy trait is subterfuge. I despise a gutless man!"

"Does it take guts to boast of your strength while hiding behind a
palace guard?" Ostby asked.

For the time it took an incredulous expression to cross his face
Magogar sat still, not believing what he had heard. No one spoke to him
like that! He straightened and turned to face Ostby full on. "Will you
repeat that?" he asked, the words half strangling in his throat.

"You heard me correctly," Ostby said, seating himself deliberately and
insolently in a chair that faced the Imperator across a heavy wooden
table. He had thrown the gauntlet. Now to strike hard at the twisted
core of pride that bent the Imperator to fit its ruthlessness. "You
boasted that you were the strongest man in the world, physically and
mentally. You're wrong on both considerations. Mentally you are weak,
with a sick and rotten pride that warps your mind. I believe you're
even a bit insane."

The Imperator rose to his feet. Muscles bunched in hard straight lines
along the ridges of his jaw, and the flanges of his nose were white
with suppressed rage.

Ostby went inexorably on. "Physically you've passed your prime. Soft
living has coated your muscles with fat, and fat girds your middle.
You...."

"You've said enough," the Imperator interrupted. He reached toward a
bell resting on the table between them.

"Wait!" Ostby stopped him with the word. "What is the strong man going
to do? Ring for his men to help him? Are you a coward as well as a
braggart?" Ostby could see his words strike like blows.

The Imperator, his eyes wide open, wicked and quiet, sat down
purposefully. Oddly he seemed to have recovered his self-control. "Pull
your chair up to the table," he said. "We will see where the strength
lies."

This was the moment! Now, Ostby reflected, if only he hadn't
overestimated himself. With the thought came a tinge of doubt. Perhaps
he would find that he was governed by the same false pride of which he
had accused Magogar.

He followed the Imperator's example and laid his left arm flat on the
table. Their left hands made contact. They rested their right elbows,
their arms forming an elevated triangle, with the table's surface as
the third side.

They gripped right hands, each large and powerful. Ostby hoped that
he had the sheer animal strength to cope with the Imperator's extra
hundred pounds of weight.

The Imperator threw his full strength into a forward press, and they
were locked in fierce, inarticulate conflict. Ostby felt the muscles
in his forearm, his biceps, and into his shoulder protest against the
violent strain. It took all his strength to meet the power that beat
against him, wave upon wave, and he realized immediately that the
best he could hope to do was hold his own. He set his muscles, with
all his might behind them, and watched almost disinterestedly as the
cords of his forearms swelled and pushed out the skin until they stood
like taut wires. A dull ache came into the shoulder socket, and he
felt perspiration gather in a cold drop in the pit of his arm and roll
clammily down his ribs. He knew now that, whatever he might have said,
the Imperator was not soft.

For a long minute, while the realities about them seemed to pause, they
held their position, both straining every muscle. The Imperator's face
turned slowly red. The red flowed down his cheeks and into the corded
tendons of his neck. Ostby could feel a pulse pounding in his own
temple.

Suddenly, though he felt no relaxation in the Imperator's arm, Ostby
knew he had won. Something in the grip of the hands told him that from
here in he was in command. The first concrete sign of it, however,
showed in the Imperator's face. Ostby saw the first doubt creep into
the cruel down-slanting corners of his mouth, and deep within the
features of his face there was a sign of remote breakage. With the loss
of certainty came a kind of shame into the man's face, and before
Ostby's eyes he changed. Changed as the things he had lived for, all
his life, were destroyed.

There was an excitement in Ostby now, and the excitement pleased him.
He bent the Imperator's arm slowly back, until it was a few inches
above the table top. He shot the adrenalin of his excitement into his
arm and rapped the knuckles of the Imperator's hand sharply against the
table.

For a moment they sat in a silence that carried more inflection than
any noise. The Imperator's head was dropped as he went through his
lonely thoughts. When he rose all reason had left him, and his face
was twisted into a snarl of bottomless hate. Ostby knew he was facing
a madman. A brutish roar rose from the Imperator's massive chest and
rolled along the walls of the room. He reached for Ostby, and the table
between them collapsed before his advance.

In the hall behind him Ostby heard the sound of running feet, and he
knew he had to act, fast and forcefully. He set himself flat on his
feet and brought his right arm around with fierce strength. His fist
landed squarely against the Imperator's jaw.

The Imperator stood motionless and his eyes rolled slowly back. He
swayed--with his body still unbending--and fell across the upturned
table. He lay very still.

Ostby ran quickly to the balcony ledge and dived over.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ostby swam underwater until his burning lungs forced him to the
surface. He observed with relief that he had placed a bend in the
harbor shore between him and the view from the balcony. He pulled
himself from the water and walked rapidly away. The first shadows of
evening had begun to fall and he hoped his wet clothing would not
arouse too much attention. His broken right hand throbbed with dull
anguish.

A half-hour later Ostby entered the Flats and made his way toward
Siggen's house. He was only a few blocks from his destination when a
tightening between his shoulder blades warned him of danger. Swiftly he
turned. His throat quickened as he saw two men, a half-block behind,
hurrying to overtake him. He began to run. He'd be safe if he could
reach Siggen's.

Then with dismay he noted two men ahead of him blocking the walk. He
looked desperately to either side for a way out.

He spied a passageway between two houses and cut sharply in between
them. Behind him he heard a shout and men running. In front loomed a
high fence. A blind alley!

Without pausing, he leaped high and caught the top of the fence, his
shattered hand protesting every movement. Swinging his body like a
pendulum he pulled his feet up. "I've got to make it!" he breathed.

He didn't!

His feet missed the top of the fence and fell back. He hung for a
second, helpless.

He felt the sting of steel in his neck. He hung in shocked stupor as
his life poured out in a flood of blood that ran down his shoulder.

Ostby crumbled to the ground. Painfully he clasped his fingers over the
gaping wound but the blood continued to ooze out between his fingers.
All strength and power of movement left him.

Oddly enough his mind remained clear. There was no fear in him now, and
no pain. The thing that had happened to him seemed the misfortune of
some other person and he viewed it almost dispassionately. There was
only regret that he would never be able to finish his job. And he had
been so close.

Soon he became aware that someone stood beside him. He looked up with
eyes that still registered clearly everything they saw. The cynical
figure, wiping a short knife on a handful of grass, Ostby knew, was the
man who had assaulted him. There was no emotion in the man. No hate and
no rancor.

Abruptly another figure stood beside the assassin. With a shock Ostby
recognized Rinda. For a second hope flickered as he noted the anguish
on her face and the tears in her eyes. But the face hardened resolutely.

"I want you to know I had it done," the Duchess said. She drew back her
foot and kicked him. Then she was gone.

So it had been she, Ostby reflected. Ironic justice. The one diversion
he had allowed himself had been his undoing.

The assassin still stood at his side, Ostby noted. Was the ghoul
waiting to enjoy the finish, he wondered. Then his mind, which even
in this extremity refused to accept its fate, conceived the shred of a
plan. He strove to speak. At the third attempt he succeeded.

"How much.... How much did ... she pay you?" he asked.

"One thousand heds."

"If you get me ... take me...." Ostby's reasoning was beginning to
leave him. Vision and speech blurred. A fiery ball of pain strained at
the base of his head, as though striving to break out.

The immediacy of his need helped him focus his vision once more on the
face above him. He gasped, "Take me to Siggen. He will pay you two
thousand if you get me there alive."

Ostby felt himself being lifted carefully off the ground.

The ball of fire in his head burst and he fell through darkness. He
fell until he struck the bottom of a black pit, went through and fell
some more. Consciousness left him.

       *       *       *       *       *

For six days Death sat on the wooden prop at the foot of Ostby's bed
and grinned at the thing that clung so tenaciously to life. The spark
within its destitute body flickered feebly those days and the nearest
Ostby came to lucidity was when he sat up in bed and cursed the
grinning spectre.

Each time fat but gentle hands eased him back and murmured to him until
he returned to sleep.

By the sixth day Death's grin became strained. Why would the creature
not die? All the vitality had been drained from the husk, yet the thing
within--the thing called Will--would not surrender its life. Each
minute it forced the body to breathe once more. And the next minute
it breathed again. The minutes stretched into days, and the days to a
week; and the seventh day, when Ostby opened his eyes, Death was gone.
He had won the hardest battle of his life.

Death's frost still lay along his nerves during the next two weeks.
Ostby realized how far he had been along the road to dying by the
reluctance with which his strength returned. This was the first time
in his life he could remember having been weak, so weak that the last
frayed ends of his vitality lay naked. And with this weakness came a
kind of humbleness. He lay quietly in the placid embrace of the apathy
which the humbleness brought.

"I wish I knew some way to thank you," he said to Siggen.

"Don't try," Siggen urged. "If I'd ever had a son," he added, "I would
have liked him to be like you."

An hour later Siggen said, "I'll do what you ask, but only on one
condition: that you wait until you are stronger before you move."

Ostby considered. "I'll give myself two more days," he said. "By that
time you should have everything ready."

Reluctantly Siggen agreed.

The sun had not yet risen, but its light was creeping into the sky
as Siggen and Ostby stood huddled in a cold doorway across from the
palace. All around them Ostby's discerning eye caught signs of life.
But the signs did not disturb him. They were Siggen's men, and they
were here at his request.

Suddenly a small splash of sound came from within the palace. A few
minutes later two men, dressed in the uniform of the Imperator's guard,
emerged. They were followed by four more. And during the next half-hour
almost a hundred came from the palace. Some of them carried their
belongings in their arms, and all of them were in a hurry.

"Something unusual is happening in there," Siggen said.

"Whatever it is, it suits our plans," Ostby said. "There can't be many
guards left inside. Your men should have little trouble overpowering
the remainder."

"I don't like it," Siggen said. "But every fear grows worse by not
being looked at. Shall we go in?"

"Soon," Ostby answered. "Take me to the water-duct first."

"It's just around the corner," Siggen replied. "Come on."

They turned the corner of the building and Siggen paced off eight
steps. "It should be right here," he said. He kicked in the dust until
his foot struck a loose brick. "Right," he grunted.

Siggen bent and lifted the brick from its loose-fitting hole. "I
supervised the job myself to see that it was done right," he said.

Ostby could hear a faint gurgle of water coming from the hole.

He rolled back the sleeve of his left arm and probed with his fingers
until he found the spot he sought. "Cut here," he said.

Siggen shook his head disapprovingly but did as he was told. Blood
crept out around the knife blade as it did its work. Ostby said nothing.

When Siggen had extracted the capsule, he handed it to Ostby.

Ostby knelt on one knee and broke the capsule, holding it carefully
over the hole in the street. He counted the drops that fell.

"Six," he said. "And one more." He shook the broken halves, and dropped
them into the water flowing beneath the hole. "That should do it," he
commented, with satisfaction. "One drop will effectively impregnate two
hundred fifty thousand gallons of water."

"I wish I knew what you were trying to do," Siggen said, "but I suppose
that you'll tell me in your own good time. Do I send my men in yet?"

"Yes, we'd better start. They know that they're to take over the entire
first floor and to hold it against all comers?"

Siggen nodded and lifted his hand in a prearranged signal. The shadows
about the buildings gave up their skulkers, and figures slipped out
from every doorway and hiding place and entered the palace.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ten minutes passed and not a sound came from within.

"It's too quiet," Siggen said. "I don't like it."

"We'll go in now," Ostby said.

Once in the palace Siggen called over one of his men. "Anything doing?"
he asked.

"Nothing," the man replied. "The whole place seems deserted."

"What do we do now?" Siggen asked, turning to Ostby.

"We'll go upstairs. Magogar should be there."

"Will I bring along some of the men?"

"No," Ostby said. "I have a feeling that we won't need them."

Siggen and Ostby went slowly up the stairway. When they reached the
room that housed the Brain, Ostby entered first.

"You timed it very well," a hollow voice greeted him, but it failed
to catch Ostby's entire attention for he was looking down at a figure
lying on the floor.

The figure was that of the Imperator, with a knife buried in his breast!

"Yes, he's dead," the hollow voice said, "and you killed him."

"I?" Ostby brought his attention up to the huge eye that gazed at him
unwinking.

"You," the Brain answered. "Technically it's suicide. But when you
defeated him in a test of strength, you killed him as surely as though
you plunged the knife into his heart!"

"Then my work may be finished," Ostby said. He looked at the Brain with
a question in his gaze.

"Yes," the Brain answered his unspoken question. "It is done. You were
wise in deducing that I must use water to function, and thus would be
exposed to the potion you placed in the palace water-duct. I'll never
be able to open the 'door' again."

"I'm happy to hear that," Ostby said, letting his shoulders ease down.
Only with the release did he realize the weight of the burden he
had been carrying all these past months. "I hope it didn't harm you
otherwise," he said.

"Not at all," the Brain answered. "You merely changed the pitch of a
subtle brain resonance necessary for the opening of the 'door.' It is
analogous to a growing boy's loss of the ability to sing tenor. His
vocal cords are in no way injured when they grow too coarse to attain a
certain pitch. But...."

The Brain paused. "What now?"

"How do you mean?" Ostby asked.

"You know that you will never be able to return to Earth after this.
And, as you are the nominal successor to Magogar, I presume you will
take over the city's government?"

"You're wrong," Ostby replied unhesitatingly. "I have no slightest
desire to be Imperator."

"If you don't there will be chaos in the city."

"You told me once that the people would be happier if they returned to
their pastoral way of life. So now let them."

"That's correct," the Brain replied. "But if you leave the city without
a government it will collapse in a bath of blood. It would be much
better if you allowed the disintegration to occur gradually under your
control. Furthermore, here is a thought which may not have entered
your mind. There are thousands of Earth people in the city. If given
the opportunity they could be quite happy here. They would be the
technicians and tradesmen. In time they, and their descendants would
be assimilated into the population, perhaps giving it many of their
better traits. Would you give that up and expose them to death under
the anarchy you would leave?"

"No," Ostby said. "But I have a different plan. One in which you play
an integral part. Would you be willing to give Siggen the cooperation
he'd need if he took over as Imperator?"

For the first time Ostby saw Siggen show surprise. His eyes widened at
the first realization of what Ostby had proposed, but he said nothing
and his features settled back into their usual placid tranquillity.
Only in his eyes did Ostby see how greatly he was pleased.

"You think, perhaps, that you surprise me," the Brain answered. "But I,
too, have given Siggen thought since Magogar took his life. Siggen is
the head of the element most likely to get out of hand, and he would
be best able to control them. The so-called aristocracy may not like
the choice but they have very little actual strength. As for the guards
and police, with my, and your, sanction, I am certain that they will
be happy to return to their former posts. And finally, Siggen is an
able administrator. You may not like this, but he will make a better
Imperator than yourself."

"Then it's settled," Ostby said. He turned to Siggen and held out his
hand. "My friend, Siggen--Imperator--I leave the city in your capable
hands. For the present, I bid you goodby." He turned and walked from
the room.

For the first time Siggen spoke. "He is at heart very romantic," he
said to the Brain. "He goes now to renew an affair of courtship with a
certain Duchess, Rinda!"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BERSERKER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
