ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Star Beast, by Damon Knight

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Star Beast

Author: Damon Knight

Release Date: February 19, 2021 [eBook #64596]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR BEAST ***




                            THE STAR BEAST

                            By DAMON KNIGHT

               They called this strange tentacle-headed
               blob that had floundered into the System
               Oscar. They were to learn a better name.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1949.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The observation deck of the _President Marcus_, this early in the
ship's arbitrary morning, was deserted except for two shapeless
figures. One of them was dead.

The body was sprawled in the curve of the deck about midway between
two of the entrance wells. It had arms and legs, if you looked closely
enough at the limp tangle of garments; it had a gray beard and a purple
face.

The other figure had neither limbs nor a face. It was black, and it
looked more like a pile of mud than anything else: a five-foot lump of
black mud, slightly flattened at either side, with a cluster of black,
stumpy filaments at the top. It moved slightly, dropping the filaments
a little toward the dead body; then it flowed away again, and the
filaments pointed straight up, toward the stars.

Phil Horitz came up at the forward end of the deck. He let the levitor
push him gently clear of the well then stepped over to the glassine
and looked out at the tiny blue disk that was Earth. His back was to
the body and its watcher. He struck a cigarette, inhaling deeply, then
turned around.

He swore and threw his cigarette away, leaping forward at the same
instant. He skidded to a halt in front of the corpse and fell to one
knee beside it. "Dead," he said. "Oh, Lord."

He searched the body swiftly, and came up with a flat metal box,
attached by a silver chain to the body's middle. He tried the lid; it
opened easily. The box was empty.

Horitz sighed and lifted the dead man's chin. Under the grey beard was
a deeply-indented red line that encircled the throat.

He stood up and pressed a button on his wrist transceiver. "Walsh," he
said. "Sommers. Get up to the observation deck. _Thomasson has been
murdered._"

A deep voice swore fervently in his ear. He didn't wait for it to
finish. He made an adjustment on the transceiver and said, "Captain
Tooker, please. This is Philip Horitz." A querulous male voice spoke:
"Yes, Horitz? What do you want?"

Horitz repeated his message, and added, "I'm bringing the body down to
Thomasson's stateroom. Get the ship's doctor and meet me there."

Two figures exploded out of the levitor well a dozen yards away; one
bulky and grey-haired, the other lean and young. They ran up to Horitz,
panting. The bulky one, Walsh, was still swearing.

"I watched him like a baby," he protested. "He told me he was going to
get up at nine this morning, so I set my watch for eight. _Why_ the
howling hell did he--"

"Save it," said Horitz. "He did. I'll take his head, Sommers, you take
his feet. Walsh, think you can carry Oscar?"

"Listen, Phil," said Sommers abruptly, "are the Equations gone?"

"Yes," Horitz told him. "They're gone."

Walsh grunted and, stooping, wrapped his arms around the black thing.
He lifted it without apparent effort. The stumpy tendrils waved down
toward him, then stood upright again, ignoring him. The other two
picked up the body of Thomasson, and all three walked back to the
levitor well from which they had come.

Captain Tooker and the medical officer, Dr. Evans, met them at the door
of the dead man's stateroom. Tooker was boiling over. "Do you call
yourselves Security agents?" he shouted. "Three of you, to protect one
man, and you couldn't do it. I'll raise hell about this, Horitz, see if
I don't."

Horitz and Sommers put the body down on the bed, and Dr. Evans fell
quietly to examining it. "We'll find the killer," said Horitz grimly,
"or else any hell you can raise will be a sneeze in a gale of wind. You
don't know the half of this yet."

"I know that a man has been murdered on my ship," said Tooker.

"A man!" said Sommers, staring at him. "A whole planet may have been
murdered, unless we get the Equations back."

"What equations?" said Tooker. "What the devil are you talking about?"

"The Thomasson Equations," said Sommers, "are the answer to the problem
of faster-than-light space travel. Prof. Thomasson derived them from
observations he made on the space shell this thing--" he gestured at
Oscar--"landed on Pluto in, last year."

Captain Tooker glanced at Oscar with evident dislike. "Well," he said,
"what are you going to do about it?"

"Have the ship searched," said Horitz quietly; "but that won't do any
good. There are a hundred ways the killer could hide the Equations so
that no search would ever find them. Our one chance, I'm afraid, is to
get the only witness to tell us who garroted Thomasson."

"The witness?" said the captain, staring. "Who?"

Horitz turned to look at the black, five-foot lump, with its gently
waving tendrils. "Oscar," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Oscar had come whirling out of interstellar space almost a year ago, in
a thin, cloudy shell hardly bigger than himself. The shell was partly
wrecked and put out of control; but by sheer luck, a supply ship had
picked it up and hauled it in to Pluto. The newspapers had labeled its
occupant a Centaurian, since he came from that general sector of space;
but actually, no one knew. The scientists at the Pluto Station who had
sweated over him for a year had found out exasperatingly little. He had
no eyes or ears, and yet he was aware of things around him. He had no
recognizable brain; he had no skeleton, no lungs, no circulatory system
and no excretory system. He got his energy, they thought, from cosmic
radiation; but they didn't know for sure.

His tendrils or filaments--the stumpy, fingerlike organs on top of his
shapeless body--had no function that they would discover. They did not
respond to sound, to light, to heat or any other known radiation--but
they followed moving objects, in a dark room as well as in a light one.

He was somehow able to emit and receive radio waves. They were able
to communicate with him, after a fashion, that way. They suspected it
wasn't his normal method of communication; but when they ticked at him
with a Morse sender, he obligingly ticked back. Slowly and painfully,
during that year, they had worked up from 1 + 1 = 2, to 9^3 = 729, to
simple nouns and a few verbs, in a code they invented as they went
along. They could talk to Oscar, and Oscar could talk to them. The only
trouble was, that nothing Oscar said made much sense--to men.

"That's the whole difficulty," explained Dr. Y. Ilyanov, running her
fingers through her thick yellow hair. Dr. Ilyanov was one of the two
assistants Thomasson had brought along, and very beautiful. The other
was Dr. Hugh Meers, who was bald and not beautiful at all.

"You understand, he perceives--but he doesn't perceive with human
senses or think in human patterns. Undoubtedly, he saw Professor
Thomasson killed; but he saw it--differently."

"If we could only get some scrap of description," said Walsh. "Surely
he can tell size, for instance? If we knew whether the murderer was a
big man or a little man, even that would help."

"You're thinking, I'll venture, of a particularly big man," said Dr.
Meers. "Carson Jahore, the ambassador from the Jovian Federation."

Horitz nodded. "A prime suspect. The Federation has always been too big
for its planets. They'd give anything for a space-drive that would let
them beat Earth to the punch in interstellar colonization."

"Well," said Walsh, "what about my question? Can't Oscar tell the
difference between a big man and a little one?"

Dr. Meers' brow wrinkled. "Not in the way a man could," he said.
"If you put them side by side, then perhaps yes. Perhaps, mind you.
But--don't you see, he hasn't got one of our senses, except touch.
Instead, he probably has a whole gamut of his own. Lord only knows how
he differentiates between one man and another, or between one apple and
another. He doesn't do it our way, anyhow."

"Look here," said Captain Tooker impatiently, "we're wasting time. Why
can't we just search everybody on board?"

"Have you got authority," asked Horitz carefully, "to strip Ambassador
Jahore and his wife to the skin and put them and all their belongings
through five hundred and twenty different chemical solutions? For a
starter, that is? If you have, go ahead. I haven't."

The captain shuddered.

"Just the same," said Horitz, standing up, "you're right; we are
wasting time. Have you got that passenger list, Captain?"

"Yes; here," Tooker said, producing it. "I've got to get back. If
anything happens, buzz me. And it had better be soon!" he added as he
left.

"All right." Horitz turned to the two scientists. "Dr. Meers, can you
and Dr. Ilyanov make Oscar understand this much: that he's to signal
when he sees the man who was with Thomasson on the observation deck
this morning?"

Meers shrugged. "We can try," he said. "I don't promise anything." He
pulled his chair over to the crude Morse set on the table and began
clicking the key.

       *       *       *       *       *

Oscar's tendrils waved slowly back and forth, as if he were interested
in anything in the world but radio clicks.

Meers stopped, waited a moment, then tried again.

_Tick-tick_, said the amplifier.

Meers nodded. "He says yes. Whether he really knows what we want, or
not, I can't say."

Horitz spoke into his transceiver: "Central. Will you please page Mr.
Abbot, Miss Acheson, Mr. and Mrs. Adler and Mr. Aguirez? Ask them to
come to stateroom B39."

One by one, the passengers whose names began with A were let into the
stateroom and presented to Oscar. Oscar said nothing. The passengers,
bewildered or indignant, were ushered out and a new batch came in.

They went through the B's, the C's, the D's, the E's, the F's, the G's,
the H's, the I's.... The whole list numbered about 150, some of whom
had been shuttled aboard at the Jovian System, others at Mars. Finally
Horitz called a halt for lunch. Dr. Meers, pleading indisposition, had
gone to lie down in his stateroom. The three Security men were alone
with Dr. Ilyanov--and Oscar.

Walsh, munching a corned-beef sandwich, stared at the black lump
balefully. "Honestly, Dr. Ilyanov," he said, "doesn't he ever give you
the creeps?"

She smiled slightly. "Honestly--yes. I dream about him sometimes."

Sommers glanced at her curiously. "What do you dream?" he asked.

"Well--" she hesitated. "It's really silly, but--Last night, you
see, I was thinking of something poor Professor Thomasson had said,
half-jokingly, when we were discussing Oscar. He said that Oscar might
not be a complete organism." She gestured toward the black thing on the
table. "You know--his flat underside, that he walks with, and those
curious flat areas along his sides? He can grip with those. If you put
your hand there, he grips it."

Horitz nodded. "Thomasson showed me that trick." He reached over and
put his hand on Oscar's black, glutinous side. "Shake hands, Oscar."

The hand sank visibly in the black flesh. When Horitz pulled it away,
there was a small sucking noise.

"Ugh," said Walsh disgustedly.

"Well," continued Dr. Ilyanov, "you know that Oscar's space shell was
wrecked. Professor Thomasson suggested that the accident that wrecked
it might have wrecked Oscar too--that really, when he is all there, he
is three or four Oscars linked together--"

She laughed embarrassedly. "Anyhow, when I slept last night, I had this
nightmare. I dreamed that I saw Oscar floating in space, but there
was more of him. There was another similar shape attached behind him,
and two smaller ones, one on either side. He was like a sort of black
cross--with those horrible tassels waving at each point of it--floating
along, under the stars...."

"Well," said Horitz puzzledly, "what was so horrible about that?"

"Why, I don't know," said Dr. Ilyanov. "But it was."

Horitz crumpled up his sandwich-wrappers and threw them into the waste
chute. "Might as well get started again," he said. He picked up the
passenger list and read, "Jaeger, Jahore, Jessamin, Johnson."

       *       *       *       *       *

Oscar watched interestedly as the beings in the room moved about,
trailing their flaming auras. These people had strange and sometimes
frightening counterpoints, he thought, but they were undeniably
picturesque. He would have a story to tell when he got home.

One of the creatures arose and moved across the room. Its glowing
sheath was bright reeve, with radiating streaks of darker gel. Inside,
the shadowy nucleus seemed to be constructed differently from the
others. Oscar followed it with the waving feelers atop his own nucleus.
If he could only get into syntact with that one, he thought, he might
find out something about it. Perhaps it had been badly morloned when it
was young; or perhaps it was a different species entirely. It was hard
to see, with these people.

Two more beings came into the room, one of them tall but with a slight
nucleus, shaped like the one he had just been examining. He felt it
with interest, but it was as uncommunicative as the other. The figure
beside it was of an uninspiring shape, but its aura was reminiscent. He
recalled that something was expected of him.

Carson Jahore was a big man, with the dark skin and fair hair that
characterized his race. He was saying loudly, "--I won't stand for it,
d'you hear? D'you think you can drag me and my wife in here like any
common suspect? I'll hear an apology, or by God, heads will roll!"

_Tick-tick-tick_, said the amplifier on the table.

"There's your apology," said Horitz, his eyes shining. "Where have you
hidden the Equations, Ambassador Jahore?"

"What _is_ this?" roared the ambassador. "What equations? What's that
thing? Are you all mad?"

Dr. Ilyanov put a hand on Horitz's arm. "Please," she said, "don't be
hasty. We don't know that Oscar understands, remember. Let's at least
run through the rest of the passenger list, and see if he picks out
anyone else."

"I never heard such nonsense in my life," put in Mrs. Jahore, who was
small and sultry. "Come along, Carson, let's go and tell the captain."

"I've already buzzed the captain," said Horitz. He glanced at Dr.
Ilyanov. "You're right, of course. Walsh, take Ambassador and Mrs.
Jahore into the other room. If they make any trouble, give them a jolt."

Walsh, with his electrogun out, herded the pair into the next room.
Jahore's shouts continued for some time.

"Ask Oscar if he was _sure_," suggested Sommers.

Dr. Ilyanov stepped to the Morse sender and tapped out the message.

_Tick-tick_, said Oscar.

"Well, that's good enough for me," said Sommers, "but we might as well
have the rest in, I suppose."

The captain called Horitz via his wrist phone, swore fearfully when
he heard that they had bagged the ambassador, and promised to come
down later. Horitz continued to read off lists of names to the central
operator, bringing in groups of passengers whose nervousness increased
as rumors spread through the ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

Horitz strode up and down the room, slamming one fist into the palm of
the other hand. "There must be something we've overlooked," he said.
"We've got to figure out what the semantic block is between us and
Oscar. I know it's something simple, I feel it; but--"

Dr. Ilyanov was frowning thoughtfully. "I have an idea," she said. "Did
it ever occur to you that Dr. Tooker might be the man we are looking
for?"

"Tooker!" said Horitz.

"Yes. You saw how jealous he is of his job on this ship. If the
Thomasson Equations were used, he would certainly be put out of work.
To a man like that, it would be worse than death. And remember, he has
not been in this room since we asked Oscar to point out the killer."

"You might be right," said Horitz slowly. "But even if Oscar put the
finger on him, it wouldn't prove anything unless we can find out what
Oscar _means_."

"Please try it," said the girl. "I have--I have a theory."

"Yes," said Horitz.

She flushed slowly. "I know it sounds absurd," she said, "but I think
Oscar has been pointing out all the ones on this ship who _could_ have
killed Professor Thomasson--who had reasons to. I think he perceives
that, just as we'd perceive a man's height, or his manner of walking."

Horitz looked at her doubtfully.

"Don't you see," she went on, "that would explain why he pointed out
two when we asked for only one? They look the same to him--he can't
tell them apart!"

"Maybe you've got it," said Horitz. He opened the transceiver and said,
"Captain Tooker, please. Horitz calling."

"Yes, Horitz?" said the captain's voice.

"Can you come down immediately? I think we've got this thing licked."

The captain walked in a few minutes later. "Horitz," he said, "you
deserve a medal. Who is it?"

_Tick-tick-tick_, said the amplifier.

"Maybe you," Horitz told him. He produced his electrogun and waved the
captain over toward the wall. "No offense, but I've got to make sure."

"What!" shouted the captain, his face reddening. "Are you crazy,
Horitz? Put that gun down!"

"Shut up," said Horitz, "please." He moved over to the connecting door,
opened it and said, "Bring them out."

Walsh and Sommers herded their prisoners back into the room. The
Jahores had subsided some time before, but broke out afresh when they
saw that they were not going to be released. The captain tried to
outshout the Jahores, and it took Horitz a full minute to quiet them.

When they were silent at last, he said, "Oscar has pointed out each
of you as the one who murdered Professor Thomasson. Now's the time to
confess."

No one said anything. Horitz picked up the passenger list from the
table and glanced at it. "All right," he said. He adjusted his
transceiver and said, "Stewards' Department? This is Horitz, in
stateroom B39. I want the stewards who serve A deck Section 3, C deck
Section 5, and the Captain's quarters. Get them down here fast."

       *       *       *       *       *

The stewards arrived, looking apprehensive. There were five of them in
all: two for each of the passenger sections, and one for Tooker. The
latter said to Horitz, "Is there anything wrong, sir?"

"Nothing that need worry you," Horitz told them. "Just stand there and
answer any questions I may ask you." He turned to Jahore. "Professor
Thomasson was killed at a very early hour this morning," he said.
"According to the ship's doctor, he had been dead approximately thirty
minutes when I found him, and that was at seven-thirty. What time did
you leave your stateroom this morning, Ambassador?"

"I don't know that that concerns you, you insolent puppy!" Jahore
replied.

"Answer him, dearest," said his wife. "Let's get this beastly business
over."

"Oh, very well," said the ambassador. "I was up at nine."

"Is that correct?" Horitz said to the stewards.

One of them spoke up, "Yes, sir, I believe so. I was in the corridor
when His Excellency came out, and it was at about nine o'clock, sir."

Horitz bowed slightly. "You have my apologies, Ambassador. You and your
wife may go now."

"Just a minute," said Sommers unexpectedly. "Oscar clicked when both
the Ambassador and his wife were in the room, didn't he? Mrs. Jahore,
when did you leave the stateroom?"

"At ten-thirty," the woman said coldly.

"That's correct, sir," said the steward. "I was working in that section
almost all the morning, and I saw Mrs. Jahore leave at that time."

"Please accept my apologies also," said Tooker to the Jahores, trying
to curb his apoplexy. "I assure you, sir, that this was none of my
doing."

"You're not out of the woods yet yourself, Captain," said Horitz wryly.

Mrs. Jahore tugged at her husband's sleeve, but the ambassador looked
interested. "You're in this too, are you?" he said to Tooker. "I think
I'll stay and see the finish."

Horitz looked at Tooker. "Well, Captain?"

"I was up at six-thirty," said the captain.

"Right?" said Horitz.

The steward coughed. "Approximately right, sir. I should say that it
was more nearly six-_forty_."

"Where did you go, Captain Tooker?" asked Horitz. "To the control room?"

"Certainly."

"Who was on duty there?"

"First mate--Marshall," said the captain angrily.

Horitz lifted his transceiver.

"All right!" said the captain, raising his hand. "I didn't arrive in
the control room until seven-thirty. I can't account for the time,
either, or rather I won't. I suppose you think you can burn me for
that."

"Maybe," said Horitz soberly. "For your own sake, I advise you to tell
me where you were."

The captain wilted suddenly. "I was--visiting a certain lady," he said.
"That's all I'll tell you, but it's the truth." He stiffened again,
and glared at Horitz. "If it comes to that, what time did _you_ get up
this morning?"

"Seven-twenty," said Horitz. "Well it's one of you two," he began.

One of the stewards coughed. "Excuse me, sir," he said, "but what you
said isn't true."

Horitz looked at him without comprehension. "What isn't true?" he asked.

"You didn't get up at seven-twenty, sir. I saw you leave at not later
than six-forty-five, sir."

Horitz simply stared at him. "What are you lying for?" he asked,
puzzled.

"I'm not lying," the man said stiffly. "I remember distinctly, because
I thought it was odd at the time. You left your room at a quarter to
seven, and then I saw you come back about twenty minutes later. Both
times, you had a funny sort of expression on your face--sort of dazed,
you looked. When you came back, you had some papers in one hand, and
you were carrying your belt in the other, sir."

The others were all staring at Horitz.

"His belt!" said Sommers. His gun swiveled to point at Horitz. "I'm
sorry, Phil. Drop your gun."

Horitz dropped it, and Walsh scooped it up.

"Then he went into his stateroom and locked the door," said the steward
excitedly, "and about twenty after seven he came out again, looking for
all the world as if he'd just waked up. I went into the room, being a
little curious, and looked around to see if I could see the papers, or
anything. I didn't see the papers, but there was scraps of burnt paper
and ashes all around the waste chute. It looked to me as if he burnt
them up."

       *       *       *       *       *

Horitz felt numb. The words he was hearing, incredibly, awoke echoes of
memory ... a memory that had not been there an instant before.

"Burned them!" said the girl, her eyes wide. "But why!"

Sommers was speaking rapidly into his wrist transceiver, and a few
moments later the ship's doctor bustled in, carrying his bag.

"Give your belt to Dr. Evans, Phil," said Sommers.

_This is crazy_, thought Horitz to himself. _I'm dreaming._ He took off
the thin rawhide band he wore about his waist and handed it over to the
doctor. _I remember his face_, he thought. _His purple face as I....
But I didn't. I couldn't have!_

The doctor took the belt, casting a sharp glance at Horitz, and held it
up to the light in his gloved hands. He took a bulky instrument from
his bag, clipped a section of the belt into its base and peered at it
through the eyepieces. He looked up after a moment and nodded.

"Traces of human skin," he said. "This is undoubtedly the instrument
which was used to kill Professor Thomasson."

"I think I understand now," said Dr. Ilyanov slowly, staring straight
ahead of her. "We forgot one person who had a motive ... Oscar! He
didn't want us to reach the stars...."

She turned until her wide gaze rested on Horitz's face. "And you _shook
hands_ with him!" she said.

The nightmare boiled up in Horitz's head. Impossible things, memories
from nowhere, battled with his sanity: the silent decks, the slow,
dreamlike progress upward into starlight ... and the hideous purple
face, staring impersonally into his.

Raging, his mind retreated, flung itself away from the thing that
was hurting it. He felt his body in motion, felt himself caught,
struggling, but it was as if he were a far-off spectator. The words
that came to him were meaningless.

Walsh and Sommers, holding him, looked at each other across the
prostrate body. The muscles on Walsh's heavy forearms stood out, and
there was sweat on Sommers' forehead. Gradually the struggles subsided:
Horitz lay still and white, looking upward at nothing.

Dr. Ilyanov came to kneel over him. She said, "He will be cured. And
he can't be punished, of course." She turned her head slowly toward
the black shape across the room. "But--" she said--"_neither can that
thing_!"

Oscar's tentacles writhed, delicately.

[Illustration: _Oscar's tentacles writhed delicately._]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR BEAST ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
