ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Lady Into Hell-Cat, by Stanley Mullen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Lady Into Hell-Cat

Author: Stanley Mullen

Release Date: February 25, 2021 [eBook #64624]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LADY INTO HELL-CAT ***




                          LADY INTO HELL-CAT

                           By STANLEY MULLEN

          Tracking her across black space-lanes and slapping
              magnetic bracelets on her was duck soup for
              S.P. Agent Heydrick. Only then did he learn
              what a planet-load of trouble he'd bought.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1949.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The inspector of security police dropped his shoes on the floor and put
his feet on the desk where he could watch his toes wriggle.

"Sure we're sloppy here," he said belligerently. "You pretty boys of
the Space Patrol don't know what it's like in a slime-hole frontier
town like 9 Ganymede."

Lee Heydrick smiled grimly. "I guess you didn't catch my name. I earned
these service bars of mine. I was one of four survivors of the first
Trans-Plutonian Expedition."

The inspector suddenly became respectful. "Oh, you're that Heydrick?"
He referred to the credentials on his desk. "What's a pirate-chaser
like you doing on an assignment like this? Seems like picking up
fugitive murderers for the disintegrators is a job for the security
police."

Heydrick grunted. "So it is. I don't like the job any better than you
do. But this is no ordinary murderer. She's a red Martian. Killed
Feyjak, third man in the Red Council. Worked in his laboratory. They
suspect a Wilding plot."

"Feyjak, eh? They ought to give her a medal. I feel sorry for the
girl--good-looker, too. Still sounds like a police job."

Heydrick growled. "Yes, it does. Just some more rotten politics.
There's not supposed to be any politics in the Space Patrol. Hooey! The
Red Scientists are in power, and my foster father, Tyko, is head man of
the Blue. So I get assignments like this. Just so they can get a whack
at Tyko. They hope I'll fail--that's all they want."

The inspector warmed noticeably. "So Tyko's your foster? I'm a blue
myself ... out of working hours. That's why I'm stuck in a last
frontier hellhole like this. Anything I can do to help?"

Heydrick loosened up and sat down. "I don't know. It's a mean job any
way you look at it. The girl says she didn't kill him. They can't use
scopolamine. She's a desert dweller of the old blood, and it doesn't
work on 'em. Why would she kill Feyjak? He wasn't a bad sort. A bit
dim, but that's all. Of course, if she's a Wilding, that would explain
after a fashion. They're all fanatics, but why Feyjak? They could knock
off a lot of others more important. We got a tip she's hiding out on
Ganymede. A place called the Spacerat's Roost. Know anything about it?"

The inspector whistled. "Not much. Enough to stay clear of the place.
It's a dive in the Interplanetary Quarter, a damn tough hole. Mostly
Plutonium prospectors and fungi hunters hang out there. We suspect it's
mixed up in the illegal Moondrug traffic, but can't prove anything. I
never send my boys into that quarter unless it's necessary, and then
only in squads of four. Sure you don't want help?"

Heydrick grinned sourly. "I wouldn't want your boys to get their pretty
uniforms dirty. Do you think you could make me look like a Plutonium
prospector?"

"Can do--that all?"

"Draw me a map of the district. I'll need to know my way around."

"I'd rather draw it than show you. I wouldn't go there alone. Not at
night. They don't like cops."

"Neither do I." Heydrick showed his teeth like an amiable wolf.

"If you're not back in two days, we'll come in after you."

"I'll be back."

       *       *       *       *       *

The air in the Spacerat's Roost was thick with Fung-weed smoke.
Heydrick mingled with the crowd inside the doorway and noticed men
from every inhabited world in the Solar System. He spotted a vacant
table and elbowed his way to it. A drug-soaked horror from Venus,
obviously the bouncer, looked dubiously at the newcomer in his scuffed
prospector's leather. Heydrick pounded on the table for service.

The waiter was a Jovian octopus man with five tentacles and three eyes.
He came and hovered over the table, blinking sadly, as if life was a
burden to him.

"What'll you have?"

"What've you got?"

The waiter waved a tentacle airily. "Anything you can name--Snow-grape
Champagne from Mars, Deimos rice-nectar, Toad's-eye brandy and
Banana-beer from Venus ..." he paused dramatically, leaned close and
whispered, "even a bit of Blue Moonfoam from Callisto for special
customers."

Heydrick winked. "I'm a special customer."

"You must have more money than sense," the waiter observed. "It'll be
twenty vikdals, Martian."

Heydrick flicked a hundred vikdal platinum coin on the table. The
octopus man uncoiled a tentacle and snatched it up, tested it for
weight, then shambled off. He returned with a dusty bottle and the
change. Heydrick let the change lie.

"Would you like to earn the rest of it?"

The octopus creature clucked somewhere within the unholy cavern which
served him as mouth. "I'd kill anyone on Ganymede for half of that," he
observed. "What'ya want me to do?"

Heydrick drew a deep breath. "You've a singer here who calls herself
the _Red Leopard of Mars_. When does she go on?"

The waiter consulted a wrist-chron. "Anytime now. She's temperamental."

"When she's finished her turn, ask her to come to my table." The Jovian
shrugged and moved off.

The houselights dimmed suddenly. A shower of colored lights played upon
the raised stage. Soft nostalgic music poured from an unseen source.
Soundlessly, a series of colored crystal screens slid back. At the back
of the stage was a shadowy figure half-concealed by clouds of gossamer
stuff blown wildly by concealed fans. Slowly, with infinite insolence,
the figure moved to the point of the triangular stage. She stood
motionless, waiting, while the babel of unearthly tongues died away in
silence. The music grew louder. Veil by veil she flung off the filmy
draperies until she stood revealed. Klathgar....

She wore the conventional garb of a woman of the ancient desert
dwellers, jewelled copper breast-plates, a circlet of beaten bronze
binding her wealth of red-violet hair, her eyes glittering like emerald
fire; and the long divided skirt concealed little of her shapely body.
Leashed, beside her, was the restless, slithering shadow of a red
sand-leopard.

Against the wavering, eerie melody, and a patterned off-beat throb
of tom-toms, she began to sing. Her voice was rich, throaty, and
the song a poignant love song of the ancient desert people. For a
moment Heydrick forgot where he was and who _she_ was. The hopeless
yearning and infinite tragedy of the music played unpleasantly with
his soul-memories. The weird denizens of the Spacerat's Roost sat
enthralled.

The song ended upon a note of earth-sick despair, a haunting melancholy
for things that will never again be as they were, never, if the planets
swing round a dead sun in an empty sky.

The singer bowed, half-contemptuously, to the storm of applause, then
retired.

Heydrick drew the identification space-photo from his pocket and
studied it. There was no doubt. Despite the heavy make-up, the features
were the same. Ria Tarsen and Klathgar were the same.

In moments the girl was back. She had shed her glamor-costume and was
nearly naked in the briefest of skirts, legs shimmering in painted
stockings, high-breasts caught in a tight sheen of semi-translucent
material. This time she sang a bawdy song, "If Asteroids were
Asterisks," about a girl who went for a rocket-ride with an octopus
man, and had to hitch-hike home from the Moons of Jupiter.

The crowd went wild. The number finished with a rowdy burlesque dance
which went considerably beyond the bounds of good taste, but was
screamingly funny.

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl ducked out the wings, and Heydrick nodded to the waiter. The
octopus man winked one of his three eyes and vanished. He came back
through the door to the dressing rooms, and the girl was with him. He
pointed to Heydrick. Klathgar looked at him insolently. A puzzled frown
wrinkled her face.

Lithe as a sand-leopard, she moved among the crowded tables, still clad
in the gaudy costume of her last number.

Heydrick looked closely at her. Could this be the same girl who sang
the love song so full of fiery passion that it was madness set to
music? The uncanny warble of flutes and the triple throb of bone-drums
still echoed in his ears. But this girl was tired; strain and
unutterable weariness lurked behind her eyes.

"Why did you send for me?" she asked.

"I wanted to talk to you--is that so unusual?"

"Men always want to talk to me," she said, sneering. "I don't have to
associate with the customers--not even those who can buy Moonfoam."

Heydrick noticed suddenly that the sand-leopard was with her. The
animal's tail swished savagely back and forth. Its lips curled and a
snarling burr of sound came from the ugly rows of teeth. It seemed like
an echo of the girl's sneer. Klathgar put down one hand to stroke the
beast's spade-shaped head. It rubbed against her in silent ecstasy.

"Perhaps I can change your mind," suggested Heydrick. "Won't you sit
down?"

"You flatter yourself," she snapped. "I can hear what you have to say
standing up."

"I wonder if you can," Heydrick mused aloud. "First, who are you?" The
ghost of fear trembled behind her mask.

Klathgar laughed. "Ask anybody who I am. Klathgar. The Red Leopard."

Heydrick threw Ria Tarsen's dossier card on the table, face up.
Klathgar glanced at it without a flicker of emotion.

"Is that supposed to mean something to me?" she asked contemptuously.

"It should--it's yours."

Her laugh was shrill. "At least you have a new approach. In either
case, you're mistaken. What's your racket?"

"Heydrick, I.P.S. If you're not Ria Tarsen, who are you? May I see
your ident-card?"

The girl was growing angry. "It's in my dressing room; I'll get it."

Heydrick was on his feet. "If you don't mind, I'll go with you."

"I do mind."

"I'll go anyway."

The girl shrugged and led the way among the crowded tables, the leopard
padding silently beside her. Curious glances went with them. Suddenly
Klathgar turned. "On second thought, I have it here," she said. She
knelt quickly and unsnapped the leopard's leash. Heydrick's hand
reached for his gun, but the girl was holding a card out to him. Even
as he took it, he wondered if the gesture were a trick to occupy his
gun hand.

One glance at the card was enough. "I hope you didn't pay too much for
this," he told her. "It's a clumsy forgery."

Klathgar muttered a low word to the leopard, then slipped through the
sliding door of plastic. A bundle of furred muscle launched itself at
Heydrick. It was touch and go for a minute. Deadly talons raked through
the leather tunic like razors. The man got a grip on the jewelled
collar and twisted savagely. He wrenched the great cat away long enough
to get out a paralysis gun and fire it. The drugged needle went into
a soft spot behind one furred ear. Instantly the beast let go and
crumpled.

Heydrick leaped for the door. Someone tried to trip him, but he got
through and slammed the plastic door shut.

Cutting down the intensity of his blaster, he ran the blunt muzzle up
and down the joint where the heavy slab of plastic fit, sealing it
tightly as the plastic flowed and fused. "That should hold them," he
thought. Something crashed against the door.

In the dim passageway, Heydrick could see several doors, all shut.
Which door?

He tried three, then saw one marked with a glittering star. It was
locked, but he put his shoulder against it and shoved violently. The
thin screen buckled.

The girl was rummaging in a drawer. She turned and lunged at him with
an ornamental dagger. Heydrick wrenched it away from her.

"Nice try, Ria."

She leaped on him, kicking and scratching. Locked together they crashed
into the mirror. All three went down in a smash of glass. The girl lay
still.

Heydrick took a needle from the paralysis gun and scratched her
lightly. Her breathing steadied and she lay relaxed, while he opened
the window and looked out. Below him, bathed in eerie Jupiter-light,
lay the rooftops of the city. He could just make it to the next roof.
Ria was lighter than she looked.

       *       *       *       *       *

At security police headquarters, Heydrick sat back for a quiet smoke.
He had changed back into the crisp silvery grey of the Space Patrol.
The inspector was in an official mood. He had his shoes on.

"What's the quickest transportation back to Mars?"

The inspector grinned. "Anxious to get her off your hands, eh? I don't
blame you. The Martian Express is the quickest--you can get it at City
1. It doesn't stop, of course, but they pick up ore-lighters as they go
past Ganymede."

"How can I get to City 1?"

"I'll lend you a patrol flier. They're all old crates, rocket drive. If
it gets you there, you can leave it; we'll pick it up. If not, maybe
we'll get some decent equipment."

Heydrick walked down the dim passageway to the cell in which he had
deposited Ria Tarsen. She glowered at him.

"Did you kill my leopard?"

"He's all right. Be stiff a couple of days, that's all. I used the
paralysis gun. How d'you feel."

The girl did not answer. Heydrick went on. "I'm sorry, Ria. I'll have
to take you back now." He unlocked the cell, and the girl strode into
the corridor. She was still arrogant and glared at him with cold
insolence.

"You must feel proud of yourself," she said icily. "You'll never get me
back to Mars."

"I thought of that." He took a metal bracelet from his pocket. "Try
this on for size."

"That's a funny handcuff; it's not chained to anything," she said as he
clasped it on her wrist.

"Try running away," he suggested. Ria darted down the corridor, then
stopped as if she had run smack into a dur-steel wall.

"Magnetic," he explained. "Can be set for distances up to fifty feet.
Once that's on you, and the mate to it's on me, we're linked together
to the end of the trail. It's sealed with a coded beam of light. I
don't have the combination. I just don't want you to try anything
silly, that's all."

"I'll kill you for this," Ria promised, her green eyes glowing with
ugly light.

"Seems you've killed one man too many now," Heydrick commented. "Even
if you were lucky enough to kill me, we'd still be linked together; you
couldn't escape with a corpse."

"I didn't kill Feyjak 9," she shrieked. "I didn't kill him. It was an
accident. I don't know anything about it."

Heydrick looked at her soberly. "I don't believe you, Ria. And, if I
did, it wouldn't matter. You were tried and sentenced. I'm sorry for
you, but it's my job to take you back to the--to your punishment."

"I won't go back to the disintegrators," Ria stated, her face pale but
tearless. "You'll never get me there alive."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the antiquated patrol flier, Heydrick set the auto-pilot for City
1. The girl was sleeping quietly under the effects of the paralysis
drug. Heydrick went back to the galley and opened a can of hot coffee.
A sudden tug at the metal circlet on his wrist sent him racing to the
controls.

It was too late. The girl held a heavy bar of dur-steel ready to crash
it down on the maze of keys and switch-bars. The bar descended in a
glittering crescent. Blue flame shot through the tiny cabin. Rocket
jets fused and exploded at the tail of the rocket-flier.

The shock knocked Heydrick to his knees. He scrambled to the control
board and reached for the girl. In one movement, she turned and struck
at him with the bar. It missed his head, but a numbing jar went through
his shoulder. A clip on the jaw sent her reeling.

[Illustration: _A clip on the jaw sent her reeling._]

Frantically Heydrick worked at the wrecked controls, splicing burnt
wires, bending keys back to position. Sick nausea clawed at his
insides. The ship was going down in a free fall, spinning. The thin
atmosphere of Ganymede went round the hull with a crescendo, whistling
scream. A jagged wilderness of saw-toothed rock and volcanic ash
whirled up at the flier.

The slight gravity of Ganymede was bad enough, but if they struck at
full rocket velocity, the hull would crumple like an eggshell. With a
length of wire, Heydrick burned his fingers shorting the switches to
the forward tubes. It was too late to do much. If he could only slow
the fall.

A series of explosions forward jarred through the ship. Deceleration
flung Heydrick on top of the girl.

The flier buried her nose in soft ash and skidded thirty yards in a
choking shower. A sharp needle of jagged rock reached up through the
dust to catch her. With a shriek of riven metal the flier rose on end.
The fused-quartz port-holes bulged and gave way.

Supercharged air whistled out of the cabin. As the artificially heavy
air blew itself out, Heydrick felt his head swell as if it were going
to explode. His eyes seemed to be squeezing out of his head. Dazed,
he groped to the locker and got out the space-suits. The cold bit into
him like needles of ice till he struggled into his suit. He set his
atmosphere control, then fought his way through the shattered wreckage
to Ria. She was in no condition to resist as he forced the bulky
space-suit on her. He set the controls on her suit, then talked into
his microphone.

"You are a problem child," he said. "How'd you manage it?"

Ria was sick and dizzy. She staggered on her feet. "I had some
benzedrine--stole it from the emergency kit. Your paralysis needle
barely scratched me anyhow."

She fell weakly against the bulkhead. Heydrick seized her and dragged
her through the riven shell of the control room into the shelter of a
gaunt outcropping.

"The forward rockets are building up. They'll go any minute."

A bellowing geyser of dust-shrouded flame roared up. Flying metal
clattered brutally on their shelter.

"Just in time," he said. Ria lay on the ground, retching weakly. "Well,
the security boys get a new ship. They'll be happy. From here on, we
walk. I hope you're satisfied."

The upper limb of an immense crescent rose above the horizon. Jupiter.
Its sombre light revealed a savage wasteland of barren rock and
volcanic ash.

"Come on, Babe. You should enjoy this. It's thirty miles, and the
walking's bad. But we like it that way, don't we?"

Sulkily, Ria got to her feet and followed him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Martian Express Liner, _Phobos_, went into full gear with a
velocity of 89 Martian gravities. After detouring the dangerous
asteroid belt, the ship nosed down in a long curving glide to intercept
the orbit of Mars. Far ahead was a blurred crescent of red, glowing
with soft radiance against a star-sprinkled void. Lee Heydrick watched
the planet swing slowly across the field of the glass. A deep unrest
troubled him, but he refused to face the mask it might wear and tried
to force it out of his mind.

"We should be there in fourteen hours," the co-pilot said.

"That'll be a relief. This is one job I don't like."

The pilot glanced at them sourly. "I thought you were through with the
service," he shot at Heydrick.

"I am--it's my last job. I can't live on any of the inner planets after
being exposed to the zero-rays of outer space. It takes six months
for a resignation to go through in the Space Patrol. My time is up in
two weeks and four days. After that, I'll have to stick to the places
outside the asteroid belt or resign myself to a very brief life--18
months, at the outside."

"Too bad. What're you going to do?"

"I don't know. Maybe settle on one of the Moons of Saturn. They aren't
too crowded. I'll be glad to be free again. Silly, isn't it--when you
think of the way I used to look forward to being in Space Patrol! My
folks were refugees from earth--lived in the icy marshes near the
northern ice-cap of Mars. I ran away from home to go to Canal City 9
and study for the Patrol. My grades were good enough to impress Tyko.
He took me into his home. My folks were proud of me. They're all dead
now; Tyko's all I have left. I'll miss the old buzzard."

The co-pilot grunted. "What are you kicking about? I wish somebody'd
handcuff me to a kitten like that one of yours. She looks hotter than
a rocket tube. If you get tired of your work, I'll take over and spell
you awhile."

Heydrick grinned with embarrassment. "You might regret it. She's tried
to kill me twice already. She's full of ideas."

"I hope she knocks you off--you can will her to me."

The alarms through the space cruiser began to shrill in great bellows
of sound. Heydrick ran along the passageway and tried the door of the
stateroom where he had locked his prisoner. It was still locked. He
used the key, but something heavy was jammed against the door. He drew
his blaster gun and cut down the intensity. The door glowed cherry red,
then flowed together. It gave as he crashed against it.

Ria was posed dramatically, metal stool in hand, in the act of
trying to smash the port-cover. The fused-quartz pane was already
spiderwebbed, and air sucked out in a rising whine. Ria changed her
mind and flung the stool at Heydrick. He lunged under it and caught
her round the waist. In one movement, he flung her over his shoulder
and whirled back out to the passage. Dropping her in a heap, he clawed
shut the insulated emergency door and spun the wing-nuts. Waves of cold
licked his eyelashes and his fingers stung with frost before he got the
job done.

The girl's green eyes watched him warily, as a cat's might.

"I'm sorry you made it," she spat at him viciously. "I hate you--hate
you!"

Heydrick spun the dials on the handcuffs. "Okay, kid, if you want to
play rough, you'll sit out the rest of the trip on my lap. The interval
is two feet, as of now."

"I hope you can take it." Then she snapped. Tears burst out. She raged
and screamed and kicked, laughed and cried and choked at the same time.
Heydrick slapped her out of it. She huddled on the floor, sobbing
weakly.

The co-pilot came along the passageway. "Oh, it's your pet? We thought
it might be."

"Still want to trade jobs?"

"It might be fun to spank her, but I'll skip it. I've news for you. We
can't land in City 4--trouble of some kind--sounds like a good row."

"Do you know what's wrong?"

"They didn't say. Orders are to take the ship on the Desert City 12.
You two can go down in the lighters with the freight." The co-pilot
patted Ria on the shoulder--she cringed away from him. "Tough luck,"
he said gently. "Too bad you're stuck with Bighead here. If you were
dealing with me, we'd go off to some empty asteroid and camp out for
the rest of your life."

       *       *       *       *       *

Brooding over the immensity of the plain below was Canal City 4.
Covering the entire city like a tremendous bubble was the iridescent
dome of fused-quartz. The tiny fleet of ore-lighters nosed through
the valves of airlock after airlock and headed across town toward the
sprawling terraces of the freight docks. Like a chain of brightly
silvered pumpkin seeds, the clumsy craft wound in and out among the
towers of the 7th level, down to the freight docks.

Heydrick took his prisoner through the airlock in the freight terminal
to condition her and himself for street-level atmosphere, then went out
on the huge platform again.

Pausing only long enough to ask a robot attendant for information,
Heydrick pushed the button to stop a descending elevator.

"Labor trouble--the workers are picketing--riots have broken out at
street level," droned the mechanical voice of the robot.

A crowded car stopped, signalling raucously. Heydrick showed his badge
to the robot pilot. "Street level," he said crisply. "Space Patrol
priority." The robot grunted. "We have orders not to stop unless it's
vitally necessary."

"It's necessary."

Jumbles of neo-plastic architecture, rising tier on tier above the
series of terraces on which the city was built, whirled upward past the
descending car.

On the street level, all was bustle and confusion. A polyglot crowd
composed of every human and near human species in the universe jammed
the streets. Stares followed the I.P.S. uniform as Heydrick pushed out
of the elevator. A few people gave nods of respect, but in most faces
burned a sullen hatred and resentment.

Ria followed him in stolid silence as the handcuffs tugged at her. The
knots of angry people came suddenly in focus and she had a moment's
desperate inspiration.

She jerked back heavily on the cuffs and began to scream.

Heydrick was caught off guard and spun sharply about.

"Help me, somebody," Ria cried wildly. "The cops are taking me in. I
haven't done anything."

The mob clotted around the pair, snarling angrily.

Heydrick reached for his gun, just as somebody threw a spanner. He
dodged, heard Ria's voice shout a welcome, "Thorsan," and that was
all. A sharp jab in his cheek as the paralysis needle went home was the
last he knew. Darkness rushed over him in a smothering cloud.

       *       *       *       *       *

Someone kept slapping him. He felt as if he were trying to swim in
thick syrup. The light on the desk shone blindingly in his eyes. He got
his hand up to shield his eyes, then they struck it down. He blinked
sharply awake.

Behind the desk sat a handsome man. Pale blue eyes that probed deeply,
plump cheeks, thick blonde eyebrows, muscular shoulders. Heydrick
had seen him before. Where? Oh, yes--the pieces clicked together.
The Feyjak investigation. The man had testified against Ria Tarsen,
reluctantly, the Visiphone News had commented. He had been Feyjak's
assistant, Ria's friend.

Thorsan drummed the desk with his fingers. "Heydrick, you've given us a
lot of trouble. You probably want to know where you are. You're in the
underground galleries below Level 1. We have our headquarters here. I
am the head man of the Wildings."

Heydrick's brain spun. He fought back the whirl and tried to think
calmly.

Below the lowest inhabited level of Canal City 4 were endless mazes of
caverns, galleries and abandoned mine-shafts.

Rumor said that bands of outlaws roamed among the savages, second and
third generations of the outcast rebels who long-ago had been driven
to the refuge of the city's ratholes. Banded together by their common
hatreds, these outlaws had built up a strong organization known as the
Wildings. There was some talk that numbers of them had infiltrated the
City's government; men of dangerous ability, infinite cunning, and
vicious philosophy, whose sole aim was the overthrow of the Government
of Scientists.

Heydrick's heart turned suddenly to ashes as he realized that Ria
Tarsen must have been a Wilding. Surely no group would have gone to
the trouble of instigating riots merely to rescue an outsider, however
innocent. It was all clear now, painfully clear.

Thorsan must have divined the nature of Heydrick's thoughts. He
laughed harshly, then turned to a subordinate.

"They're no use to us, either of them. The girl didn't know as much as
I thought she did. Now they both know too much. We'll have to get rid
of them. Put him in the cell with her while I figure out what to do
with them."

Hands reached out of the darkness and dragged Heydrick roughly to his
feet. He was thrust along a winding gallery that he realized must be
part of an old mine. They must have given him a full dose with the
paralysis needle. He kept stumbling, and his legs moved stiffly.

The group came to a halt before an old wooden-plank door. The room
inside was damp, and smelled mouldy. It was evidently a chamber cut in
the rock for storage of explosives. His captors thrust him inside. He
bounced off a wall and fell heavily. The door bumped shut and a sound
like a bar dropping in place came muffled through the planks.

"Well, tough guy, how do _you_ like being pushed around?" A familiar
voice came out of darkness.

"Who is it?" he asked needlessly.

"It's not your Aunt Sophie," the voice said acidly. "_You_ should kick.
You have better company than I have."

The two sat in moody silence for a while. "Are you all right?" the girl
asked finally.

"Still stiff," he answered. "You should know what that's like."

"I do. You and your toy handcuffs. They only wanted me; Thorsan thought
I knew he killed Feyjak. He was afraid I might give him away. They had
to drag you along on account of your silly handcuffs. If you hadn't
split my lip, I could laugh at you. They're going to kill us, you know."

"Yes, I heard him say that."

"What are we going to do? Any ideas?"

"Not so far. How about you?"

"Nothing definite. I still have the benzedrine tablets I swiped. They
didn't find 'em when they searched me. I'll split with you. If we take
it before they come for us, we may get a chance to make a break. It'll
counteract the paralysis drug if they're counting on that to make us
dead pigeons while they haul us around."

Her hand found his in the dark and thrust six pellets into his open
palm. Her fingers were wet and sticky.

"You're bleeding."

"It's nothing serious. That bracelet of yours cut my arm when they
chiselled it off."

"I'm sorry about everything, Ria--"

"Skip it," she said harshly. "Of course you're sorry. Now shut up. I
hate post-mortems. Besides, I think they're coming. Better get your
benzedrine down."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was sound of the bar being withdrawn. A heavy foot kicked the
door open. A man with a twisted face held the light and the gun while
two others approached warily and jabbed needles into the captives.
Coarse hands jerked them to their feet, and the two were dragged
outside, feigning limpness.

"Now," said Ria. She thrust out her foot. The man with the gun tripped
and went sprawling on the floor. Heydrick swung with all he had at the
darkness where he remembered a chin and felt bone shatter beneath his
fist. Then he was tangled in a savage knot with the third man, rolling
and threshing about in deadly fury.

Ria was not idle. She salvaged the light, switched the radilume back
on, and hunted for the dropped gun. In a matter of seconds, she brought
the butt down on an exposed skull. The thug let go and sank to the
floor.

Heydrick dusted himself off.

"I ought to let you have it, too," Ria mumbled, "but I always was a
softy. Come on, sucker."

"Which way?"

"I think they brought me that way," the girl said slowly. "Let's try
the other. Heaven knows where it leads."

Heydrick took the gun from her and thrust it through his belt. They
struck off down the tunnel, taking forks at random, but going as
cautiously as they could.

Luck was against them. They came suddenly round a turn and into a
chamber full of Wildings. It was the room where Heydrick had been
questioned by Thorsan. The man still sat at the desk. Heydrick drew the
gun and pressed its trigger as Thorsan dived for a doorway. The desk
glowed, then exploded. The room was choked with dust.

Heydrick remembered a nightmarish pursuit, running down a series of
criss-cross galleries with endless side passages. The gallery ended
abruptly. An open mine-shaft barred their way.

It was a double shaft, with space for two elevators, but neither lift
was on their level. Sounds of pursuit came from the gallery behind them.

Heydrick leaned over and looked down the shaft. A floor below was the
open-platform lift.

"Jump for the cable," he ordered. "Try to slide down it."

"You first," she said. "I'm a sissy." Heydrick jumped and his stomach
wrenched with nausea. Then the cable was burning through his hands. His
feet stung as they came down solidly on the metal flooring. The girl
was right behind him. He found the control lever and jammed it all the
way over.

The car dropped under them with sickening speed.

A blaster beam flamed briefly above them, and the discharge set a
chorus of echoes bouncing back and forth in the old mine-shaft.

"Hang tight," he shouted. "I don't know how far down this shaft goes.
If we hit bottom at this speed, we'll flatten out like saucers."

A mushroom of brilliant light expanded above them. The car jerked and
grated on the rock walls, then went down in a free fall, the cable
trailing slack above them.

Down the shaft hurtled the old lift, air whistling eerily round its
edges.

"They've blasted the cable!" Heydrick cried. "Now we are in for it." He
leaped to the brake lever and tugged at it. The bar was rusted fast.
Ria tried to help. With their combined weight and effort, the bar gave
a little. Inch by inch, it moved. The clamps started taking hold of
the side walls and a shriek of protest came from rock and metal. The
elevator slowed slightly. Too late.

With a grinding rasp of smashed metal, it struck. Ria was hurled clear,
but Heydrick was trapped.

The metal cable came down, coiling and snapping like a whip. A stiff
spiral of it covered Heydrick, pinning him fast to the floor. He wiped
a smear of blood from his face and tried vainly to lift the heavy
strands. They refused to budge.

Ria knelt beside him and tried to shift the coils, but it was no use.

"You'd better go," he said roughly. "They'll be down as soon as they
can get to the other elevator ... to make sure of us."

Ria glared at him. "It's my maternal instinct," she said. "I can't
leave you."

"You wanted a chance to escape. This is it."

Ria seized the broken brake lever and pried up part of the strands.
Heydrick worked himself part way out, but the weight was too much for
her strength. The bar twisted out of her hands. Down came the full
weight again. Heydrick cried out in agony. She moved the bar and lifted
again. This time, he crawled free.

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaning on her, he was able to stand and walk along the old gallery,
but it was a slow business. Deadly slow.

Behind them, they could hear the whine of a descending lift. "They're
coming," he said. Crouching against an angle of the tunnel, they
waited. It was useless to run. Heydrick cut the switch of his radilume
and braced the blaster against cold stone. He felt better with the
trigger nestling against his trembling finger.

The Wildings came cautiously, but they needed light to move at all.

Light splashed off the rock around the corner. Shadowy figures moved
behind the light. Heydrick pressed the trigger, and a pale beam flicked
the darkness. In the close confinement of the tunnel, the shattering
blast stunned their brains.

The explosion stopped some of the pursuit, but a scuff of boots on
rough rock warned Heydrick. Needles from paralysis guns snicked nastily
from the naked rocks beside them. He and the girl turned and fled
headlong through the darkness. Pain forgotten, he thrust Ria ahead of
him, and pried up part of the strands. Heydrick followed, stumbling and
swearing.

In the darkness ahead, he heard Ria cry out. Unable to stop, he too
collided with what seemed to be a solid wall of metal. Heydrick flicked
the radilume switch. Light flooded an ore depot, with rusting electric
cars.

"Ore cars," he gasped. "Get in." He boosted the girl up and scrambled
after her. Heydrick fumbled for the switch, found it. The car leaped
ahead as a blaster beam licked the rails behind them. With shaking
hands, Heydrick re-primed his blaster and fired wildly at the darkness
behind them. Shadows danced. It seemed seconds before the blasts went
off. Two in rapid succession.

Another car leaped from the dust cloud behind. It was pursuing them on
the parallel tracks.

A blaster beam grazed the back wall of the ore-car. It was gone with
a flash and a roar. The shock flattened Heydrick and the girl against
the front wall. Heydrick re-primed his gun, but it was impossible to
aim. The tracks went into a black maw and went up in a steeply climbing
spiral. Flanges screamed wildly as the wheels bit into the curves. Up.
Up. Up. The miles raced backward in a dizzy flow of darkness lit by
faint reflections from the radilume.

Suddenly the track levelled off on a straightaway. Heydrick peered
ahead. Heaven alone knew where the tunnel led or how far the tracks
were good. The car was going like a runaway rocket.

Then they were out in the open, in daylight. The tracks came out of a
tunnel-mouth on the banks of the dry canal.

The hurtling ore-car was half way across the bridge before Heydrick
knew they were heading for the city.

Out of the tunnel-mouth across the canal shot the other ore-car. Both
cars raced toward the city.

Ten miles. Five. Three. One.

Weird lights flickered on the tremendous dome ahead, as if some
infernal carnival was being held within the city.

Up a steep ramp to the airlock shot the cars. Seconds now. The airlock
was closed.

A gate of metal and plastic loomed close. Glass, plastic, metal and
quartz vanished in a thunderous melee of sound. The first lock. The
city's automatic wall-magnets clawed at the racing car. It slowed
rapidly. The deceleration pinned both of them flat against the front
wall of the car. It went through the second gate like a knife through
dough. The jar was agony.

The car rolled up to a dock and stopped.

Heydrick was out of the car and racing for a visiphone as a wobbling
wheel came loose and romped down the track, smashing sheds to metal
splinters.

"Get Tyko," he bellowed.

"Sorry," a robot said tonelessly. "No calls are going through till the
end of the emergency."

Heydrick swore wildly. He and Ria ran through the building and out onto
the huge terrace in front. The vast bowl of the city was in tumult.
Fires were raging on all the lower levels, and several of the towers
of the 7th level had crashed down in ruins. Mobs roared through the
streets, killing, burning, and looting. It was revolution. Security
police, trying to stem the outbreak, were caught in the maelstroms,
overwhelmed, and submerged. The lower levels had gone mad with hate.
Wildings were everywhere, organizing, leading, destroying.

Heydrick commandeered an empty flier, got Ria aboard and set the
automatic pilot for Tyko's tower in West 21.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Tyko's tower, the old man stood watching the end of the grim
spectacle in the streets below. Walls of white fire moved out in
ever-widening circles from the experimental domes, moved through the
city, quieting the mobs, herding them back to their homes. Dead lay in
windrows.

A bell rang behind him. He turned. "Oh, come in," he said. It was
Thorsan, Feyjak's assistant.

"It's almost over," Tyko told him. "Order is being restored now. After
this, we'll keep the Blues in power and give the people a government
they can like. It's a sad thing, to govern people. Herding them about
like animals. Men should be free. I'm an anarchist myself ... out of
hours."

"How about my people?" Thorsan asked, an odd expression on his face.

"Your people? Oh, the Red Scientists. Don't worry. We knew this revolt
was coming, even if you Reds didn't. We've had our eye on the Wildings
for some time. You Reds are safe enough. When order is restored,
perhaps a joint government...."

Tyko stopped. He was looking into the muzzle of a blaster.

"I don't understand," he quavered.

"My people are the Wildings. We don't want any of your kind of
governments," Thorsan said slowly. "With you out of the way, nothing
can stop the revolution. I regret the necessity."

From the open doorway, Heydrick fired. The paralysis needle bit deep in
Thorsan's neck. He crumpled silently.

Heydrick and Ria stood before Tyko.

"I see you've completed your mission," the old man said. He frowned as
Heydrick put his arm around Ria.

Heydrick laughed. "When Thorsan comes out of it, give him scopolamine.
He'll tell you who did kill Feyjak."

"I suppose you want my blessing? You have it."

"How's your war coming?"

"It's over by now. Nasty business, government. What are you going to
do?"

Heydrick and Ria looked at each other.

"I think we'll find an empty asteroid and camp out for a while. The
universe is getting too crowded. I'm glad she was innocent, Tyko. I
could never have brought her in ... for any reason."

"I wish I were young enough to go with you," Tyko sighed. "Not on
your honeymoon, of course. I guess you won't be coming back. This is
goodbye, then? Is there anything I can do for you?"

Heydrick started to reply but Ria cut in. "Yes, there is. I want
another pair of those magnetic handcuffs."

Heydrick shrugged. "She has the maternal instincts of a buzz-saw."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LADY INTO HELL-CAT ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
