ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Let the Ants Try, by James MacCreigh

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Let the Ants Try

Author: James MacCreigh

Release Date: February 25, 2021 [eBook #64631]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LET THE ANTS TRY ***




                           Let The Ants Try

                          By JAMES MacCREIGH

         Dr. Salva Gordy looked at the radioactive smear that
         had been Detroit. Then he looked down at the boiling
          anthill. Why not, he thought excitedly, why not?...

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1949.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Gordy survived the Three-Hour War, even though Detroit didn't; he was
on his way to Washington, with his blueprints and models in his bag,
when the bombs struck.

He had left his wife behind in the city, and not even a trace of her
body was ever found. The children, of course, weren't as lucky as that.
Their summer camp was less than twenty miles away, and unfortunately
in the direction of the prevailing wind. But they were not in any pain
until the last few days of the month they had left to live. Gordy
managed to fight his way back through the snarled, frantic airline
controls to them. Even though he knew they would certainly die of
radiation sickness, and they suspected it, there was still a whole
blessed week of companionship before the pain got too bad.

That was about all the companionship Gordy had for the whole year of
1960.

He came back to Detroit, as soon as the radioactivity had died down;
he had nowhere else to go. He found a house on the outskirts of the
city, and tried to locate someone to buy it from. But the Emergency
Administration laughed at him. "Move in, if you're crazy enough to
stay."

When Gordy thought about it all, it occurred to him that he was in
a sort of state of shock. His fine, trained mind almost stopped
functioning. He ate and slept, and when it grew cold he shivered and
built fires, and that was all. The War Department wrote him two or
three times, and finally a government man came around to ask what had
happened to the things that Gordy had promised to bring to Washington.
But he looked queerly at the pink, hairless mice that fed unmolested in
the filthy kitchen, and he stood a careful distance away from Gordy's
hairy face and torn clothes.

He said, "The Secretary sent me here, Mr. Gordy. He takes a personal
interest in your discovery."

Gordy shook his head. "The Secretary is dead," he said. "They were all
killed when Washington went."

"There's a new Secretary," the man explained. He puffed on his
cigarette and tossed it into the patch Gordy was scrabbling into a
truck garden. "Arnold Cavanagh. He knows a great deal about you, and he
told me, 'If Salva Gordy has a weapon, we must have it. Our strength
has been shattered. Tell Gordy we need his help'."

Gordy crossed his hands like a lean Buddha.

"I haven't got a weapon," he said.

"You have something that can be used as a weapon. You wrote to
Washington, before the War came, and said--"

"The War is over," said Salva Gordy. The government man sighed, and
tried again, but in the end he went away. He never came back. The
thing, Gordy thought, was undoubtedly written off as a crackpot idea
after the man made his report; it was exactly that kind of a discovery,
anyhow.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was May when John de Terry appeared. Gordy was spading his garden.
"Give me something to eat," said the voice behind Gordy's back.

Salva Gordy turned around and saw the small, dirty man who spoke. He
rubbed his mouth with the back of his hand. "You'll have to work for
it," he said.

"All right." The newcomer set down his pack. "My name is John de Terry.
I used to live here in Detroit."

Salva Gordy said, "So did I."

Gordy fed the man, and accepted a cigarette from him after they had
eaten. The first puffs made him light-headed--it had been that long
since he'd smoked--and through the smoke he looked at John de Terry
amiably enough. Company would be all right, he thought. The pink mice
had been company, of a sort--but it turned out that the mutation that
made them hairless had also given them an appetite for meat. And after
the morning when he had awakened to find tiny tooth-marks in his leg,
he'd had to destroy them. And there had been no other animal since,
nothing but the ants.

"Are you going to stay?" Gordy asked.

De Terry said, "If I can. What's your name?" When Gordy told him, some
of the animal look went out of his eyes, and wonder took its place.
"_Doctor_ Salva Gordy?" he asked. "Mathematics and physics in Pasadena?"

"Yes, I used to teach at Pasadena."

"And I studied there." John de Terry rubbed absently at his ruined
clothes. "That was a long time ago. You didn't know me; I majored in
biology. But I knew you."

Gordy stood up and carefully put out the stub of his cigarette. "It was
too long ago," he said. "I hardly remember. Shall we work in the garden
now?"

Together they sweated in the spring sunlight that afternoon, and Gordy
discovered that what had been hard work for one man went quickly enough
for two. They worked clear to the edge of the plot before the sun
reached the horizon. John de Terry stopped and leaned on his spade,
panting.

He gestured to the rank growth beyond Gordy's patch. "We can make a
bigger garden," he said. "Clear out that truck, and plant more food. We
might even--" He stopped. Gordy was shaking his head.

"You can't clear it out," said Gordy. "It's rank stuff, a sort of
crabgrass with a particularly tough root. I can't even cut it. It's all
around here, and it's spreading."

De Terry grimaced. "Mutation?"

"I think so. And look." Gordy beckoned to the other man and led him to
the very edge of the cleared area. He bent down, picked up something
red and wriggling between his thumb and forefinger.

De Terry took it from his hand. "Another mutation?" He brought
the thing close to his eyes. "It's almost like an ant," he said.
"Except--well, the thorax is all wrong. And it's soft-bodied." He fell
silent, examining the thing.

He said something under his breath, and threw the insect from him.
"You wouldn't have a microscope, I suppose? No--and yet, that thing is
hard to believe. It's an ant, but it doesn't seem to have a tracheal
breathing system at all. It's something different."

"Everything's different," Gordy said. He pointed to a couple of
abandoned rows. "I had carrots there. At least, I thought they were
carrots; when I tried to eat them they made me sick." He sighed
heavily. "Humanity has had its chance, John," he said. "The atomic bomb
wasn't enough; we had to turn everything into a weapon. Even I, I made
a weapon out of something that had nothing to do with war. And our
weapons have blown up in our faces."

De Terry grinned. "Maybe the ants will do better. It's their turn now."

"I wish it were." Gordy stirred earth over the boiling entrance to an
anthole and watched the insects in their consternation. "They're too
small, I'm afraid."

"Why, no. These ants are different, Dr. Gordy. Insects have always been
small because their breathing system is so poor. But these are mutated.
I think--I think they actually have lungs. They could grow, Dr. Gordy.
And if ants were the size of men ... they'd rule the world."

"Lunged ants!" Gordy's eyes gleamed. "Perhaps they will rule the world,
John. Perhaps when the human race finally blows itself up once and for
all...."

De Terry shook his head, and looked down again at his tattered, filthy
clothes. "The next blow-up is the last blow-up," he said. "The ants
come too late, by millions and millions of years."

He picked up his spade. "I'm hungry again, Dr. Gordy," he said.

They went back to the house and, without conversation, they ate. Gordy
was preoccupied, and de Terry was too new in the household to force him
to talk.

It was sundown when they had finished, and Gordy moved slowly to light
a lamp. Then he stopped.

"It's your first night, John," he said. "Come down cellar. We'll start
the generator and have real electric lights in your honor."

De Terry followed the older man down a flight of stairs, groping in
the dark. By candlelight they worked over a gasoline generator; it was
stiff from disuse, but once it started it ran cleanly. "I salvaged it
from my own," Gordy explained. "The generator--and that."

He swept an arm toward a corner of the basement. "I told you I invented
a weapon," he added. "That's it."

De Terry looked. It was as much like a cage as anything, he
thought--the height of a man and almost cubical. "What does it do?" he
asked.

For the first time in months, Salva Gordy smiled. "I can't tell you in
English," he said. "And I doubt that you speak mathematics. The closest
I can come is to say that it displaces temporal co-ordinates. Is that
gibberish?"

"It is," said de Terry. "What does it do?"

"Well, the War Department had a name for it--a name they borrowed from
H. G. Wells. They called it a Time Machine." He met de Terry's shocked,
bewildered stare calmly. "A time machine," he repeated. "You see, John,
we can give the ants a chance after all, if you like."

       *       *       *       *       *

Fourteen hours later they stepped into the cage, its batteries charged
again and its strange motor whining....

And, forty million years earlier, they stepped out onto quaking humid
soil.

Gordy felt himself trembling, and with an effort managed to stop. "No
dinosaurs or saber-toothed tigers in sight," he reported.

"Not for a long time yet," de Terry agreed. Then, "My Lord!"

He looked around him with his mouth open wide. There was no wind, and
the air was warm and wet. Large trees were clustered quite thickly
around them--or what looked like trees; de Terry decided they were
rather some sort of soft-stemmed ferns or fungi. Overhead was deep
cloud.

Gordy shivered. "Give me the ants," he ordered.

Silently de Terry handed them over. Gordy poked a hole in the soft
earth with his finger and carefully tilted the flask, dropped one of
the ant queens he had unearthed in the back yard. From her belly hung
a slimy mass of eggs. A few yards away--it should have been farther,
he thought, but he was afraid to get too far from de Terry and the
machine--he made another hole and repeated the process.

There were eight queens. When the eighth was buried he flung the bottle
away and came back to de Terry.

"That's it," he said.

De Terry exhaled. His solemn face cracked in a sudden embarrassed
smile. "I--I guess I feel like God," he said. "Good lord, Dr. Gordy!
Talk about your great moments in history--this is all of them! I've
been thinking about it, and the only event I can remember that measures
up is the Flood. Not even that. We've created a race!"

"If they survive, we have." Gordy wiped a drop of condensed moisture
off the side of his time machine and puffed. "I wonder how they'll get
along with mankind," he said.

They were silent for a moment, considering. From somewhere in the
fern jungle came a raucous animal cry. Both men looked up in quick
apprehension, but moments passed and the animal did not appear.

Finally de Terry said, "Maybe we'd better go back."

"All right." Stiffly they climbed into the closet-sized interior of the
time machine.

Gordy stood with his hand on the control wheel, thinking about the
ants. Assuming that they survived--assuming that in 40,000,000 years
they grew larger and developed brains--what would happen? Would men
be able to live in peace with them? Would it--might it not make men
brothers, joined against an alien race?

Might this thing prevent human war, and--his thoughts took an insane
leap--could it have prevented the war that destroyed Gordy's family!

Beside him, de Terry stirred restlessly. Gordy jumped, and turned the
wheel, and was in the dark mathematical vortex which might have been a
fourth dimension.

       *       *       *       *       *

They stopped the machine in the middle of a city, but the city was not
Detroit. It was not a human city at all.

The machine was at rest in a narrow street, half blocking it. Around
them towered conical metal structures, some of them a hundred feet
high. There were vehicles moving in the street, one coming toward them
and stopping.

"Dr. Gordy!" de Terry whispered. "Do you see them?"

Salva Gordy swallowed. "I see them," he said.

He stepped out of the time machine and stood waiting to greet the race
to which he had given life.

For these were the children of ants in the three-wheeled vehicle.
Behind a transparent windshield he could see them clearly.

De Terry was standing close behind him now, and Gordy could feel the
younger man's body shaking. "They're ugly things," Gordy said mildly.

"Ugly! They're filthy!"

The antlike creatures were as big as a man, but hard-looking and as
obnoxious as blackbeetles. Their eyes, Gordy saw with surprise, had
mutated more than their bodies. For, instead of faceted insect eyes,
they possessed iris, cornea and pupil,--not round, or vertical like
a cat's eyes, or horizontal like a horse's eyes, but irregular and
blotchy. But they seemed like vertebrate's eyes, and they were strange
and unnatural in the parchment blackness of an ant's bulged head.

Gordy stepped forward, and simultaneously the ants came out of their
vehicle. For a moment they faced each other, the humans and the ants,
silently.

"What do I do now?" Gordy asked de Terry over his shoulder.

De Terry laughed--or gasped. Gordy wasn't sure. "Talk to them," he
said. "What else is there to do?"

Gordy swallowed. He resolutely did not attempt to speak in English
to these creatures, knowing as surely as he knew his name that
English--and probably any other language involving sound--would be
incomprehensible to them. But he found himself smiling pacifically to
them, and that was of course as bad ... the things had no expressions
of their own, that he could see, and certainly they would have no
precedent to help interpret a human smile.

Gordy raised his hand in the semantically sound gesture of peace, and
waited to see what the insects would do.

They did nothing.

Gordy bit his lip and, feeling idiotic, bowed stiffly to the ants.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ants did nothing. De Terry said from behind, "Try talking to them,
Dr. Gordy."

"That's silly," Gordy said. "They can't hear." But it was no sillier
than anything else. Irritably, but making the words very clear, he
said, "We ... are ... friends."

The ants did nothing. They just stood there, with the unwinking pupiled
eyes fixed on Gordy. They didn't shift from foot to foot as a human
might, or scratch themselves, or even show the small movement of human
breathing. They just stood there.

"Oh, for heaven's sake," said de Terry. "Here let me try."

He stepped in front of Gordy and faced the ant-things. He pointed to
himself. "I am human," he said. "Mammalian." He pointed to the ants.
"You are insects. That--" he pointed to the time machine--"took us to
the past, where we made it possible for you to exist." He waited for
reaction, but there wasn't any. De Terry clicked his tongue and began
again. He pointed to the tapering metal structures. "This is your
city," he said.

Gordy, listening to him, felt the hopelessness of the effort. Something
disturbed the thin hairs at the back of his skull, and he reached
absently to smooth them down. His hand encountered something hard and
inanimate--not cold, but, like spongy wood, without temperature at all.
He turned around. Behind them were half a dozen larger ants. Drones, he
thought--or did ants have drones? "John," he said softly ... and the
inefficient, fragile-looking pincer that had touched him clamped his
shoulder. There was no strength to it, he thought at once. Until he
moved, instinctively, to get away, and then a thousand sharp serrations
slipped through the cloth of his coat and into the skin. It was like
catching oneself on a cluster of tiny fishhooks. He shouted, "John!
Watch out!"

De Terry, bending low for the purpose of pointing at the caterpillar
treads of the ant vehicle, straightened up, startled. He turned to run,
and was caught in a step. Gordy heard him yell, but Gordy had troubles
of his own and could spare no further attention for de Terry.

When two of the ants had him, Gordy stopped struggling. He felt warm
blood roll down his arm, and the pain was like being flayed. From where
he hung between the ants, he could see the first two, still standing
before their vehicle, still motionless.

There was a sour reek in his nostrils, and he traced it to the ants
that held him, and wondered if he smelled as bad to them. The two
smaller ants abruptly stirred and moved forward rapidly on eight thin
legs to the time machine. Gordy's captors turned and followed them, and
for the first time since the scuffle he saw de Terry. The younger man
was hanging limp from the lifted forelegs of a single ant, with two
more standing guard beside. There was pulsing blood from a wound on de
Terry's neck. Unconscious, Gordy thought mechanically, and turned his
head to watch the ants at the machine.

It was a disappointing sight. They merely stood there, and no one
moved. Then Gordy heard de Terry grunt and swear weakly. "How are you,
John?" he called.

De Terry grimaced. "Not very good. What happened?"

Gordy shook his head, and sought for words to answer. But the two ants
turned in unison from the time machine and glided toward de Terry, and
Gordy's words died in his throat. Delicately one of them extended a
foreleg to touch de Terry's chest.

Gordy saw it coming. "John!" he shrieked--and then it was all over, and
de Terry's scream was harsh in his ear and he turned his head away.
Dimly from the corner of his eye he could see the sawlike claws moving
up and down, but there was no life left in Terry to protest.

       *       *       *       *       *

Salva Gordy sat against a wall and looked at the ants who were looking
at him. If it hadn't been for that which was done to de Terry, he
thought, there would really be nothing to complain about.

It was true that the ants had given him none of the comforts that
humanity lavishes on even its criminals ... but they had fed him, and
allowed him to sleep--when it suited their convenience, of course--and
there were small signs that they were interested in his comfort, in
their fashion. When the pulpy mush they first offered him came up
thirty minutes later, his multi-legged hosts brought him a variety
of foods, of which he was able to swallow some fairly palatable
fruits. He was housed in a warm room. And, if it had neither chairs or
windows, Gordy thought, that was only because ants had no use for these
themselves. And he couldn't ask for them.

That was the big drawback, he thought. That ... and the memory of John
de Terry.

He squirmed on the hard floor until his shoulder-blades found a new
spot to prop themselves against, and stared again at the committee of
ants who had come to see him.

They were working an angular thing that looked like a camera--at least,
it had a glittering something that might be a lens. Gordy stared into
it sullenly. The sour reek was in his nostrils again....

Gordy admitted to himself that things hadn't worked out just as he had
planned. Deep under the surface of his mind--just now beginning to
come out where he could see it--there had been a furtive hope. He had
hoped that the rise of the ants, with the help he had given them, would
aid and speed the rise of mankind. For hatred, Gordy knew, started in
the recoil from things that were different. A man's first enemy is his
family--for he sees them first--but he sides with them against the
families across the way. And still his neighbors are allies against the
Ghettos and Harlems of his town--and his town to him is the heart of
the nation--and his nation commands life and death in war.

For Gordy, there had been a buried hope that a separate race would
make a whipping-boy for the passions of humanity. And that, if there
were struggle, it would not be between man and man, but between the
humans ... and the ants.

There had been this buried hope, but the hope was denied. For the ants
simply had not allowed man to rise.

The ants put up their camera-like machine and Gordy looked up in
expectation. Half a dozen of them left, and two stayed on. One was the
smallish creature with a bangle on the foreleg which seemed to be his
personal jailer; the other a stranger to Gordy, as far as he could tell.

The two ants stood motionless for a period of time that Gordy found
tedious. He changed his position, and lay on the floor, and thought of
sleeping. But sleep would not come. There was no evading the knowledge
that he had wiped out his own race--annihilated them by preventing them
from birth, forty million years before his own time. He was like no
other murderer since Cain, Gordy thought, and wondered that he felt no
blood on his hands.

There was a signal that he could not perceive, and his guardian ant
came forward to him, nudged him outward from the wall. He moved as he
was directed--out the low exit-hole (he had to navigate it on hands and
knees) and down a corridor to the bright day outside.

The light set Gordy blinking. Half blind, he followed the bangled
ant across a square to a conical shed. More ants were waiting there,
circled around a litter of metal parts.

Gordy recognized them at once. It was his time machine, stripped piece
by piece.

After a moment the ant nudged him again, impatiently, and Gordy
understood what they wanted. They had taken the machine apart for
study, and they wanted it put together again.

Pleased with the prospect of something to do with his fingers and his
brain, Gordy grinned and reached for the curious ant-made tools....

He ate four times, and slept once, never moving from the neighborhood
of the cone-shaped shed. And then he was finished.

Gordy stepped back. "It's all yours," he said proudly. "It'll take you
anywhere. A present from humanity to you."

The ants were very silent. Gordy looked at them and saw that there were
drone-ants in the group, all still as statues.

"Hey!" he said in startlement, unthinking. And then the needle-jawed
ant claw took him from behind.

Gordy had a moment of nausea--and then terror and hatred swept it away.

Heedless of the needles that laced his skin, he struggled and kicked
against the creatures that held him. One arm came free, leaving gobbets
of flesh behind, and his heavy shod foot plunged into a pulpy eye. The
ant made a whistling, gasping sound and stood erect on four hairy legs.

Gordy felt himself jerked a dozen feet into the air, then flung free in
the wild, silent agony of the ant. He crashed into the ground, cowering
away from the staggering monster. Sobbing, he pushed himself to his
feet; the machine was behind him; he turned and blundered into it a
step ahead of the other ants, and spun the wheel.

       *       *       *       *       *

A hollow insect leg, detached from the ant that had been closest to
him, was flopping about on the floor of the machine; it had been that
close.

Gordy stopped the machine where it had started, on the same quivering,
primordial bog, and lay crouched over the controls for a long time
before he moved.

He had made a mistake, he and de Terry; there weren't any doubts left
at all. And there was ... there _might_ be a way to right it.

He looked out at the Coal Measure forest. The fern trees were not the
fern trees he had seen before; the machine had been moved in space.
But the time, he knew was identically the same; trust the machine for
that. He thought: I gave the world to the ants, right here. I can take
it back. I can find the ants I buried and crush them underfoot ... or
intercept myself before I bury them....

He got out of the machine, suddenly panicky. Urgency squinted his eyes
as he peered around him.

Death had been very close in the ant city; the reaction still left
Gordy limp. And was he safe here? He remembered the violent animal
scream he had heard before, and shuddered at the thought of furnishing
a casual meal to some dinosaur ... while the ant queens lived safely to
produce their horrid young.

A gleam of metal through the fern trees made his heart leap. Burnished
metal here could mean but one thing--the machine!

Around a clump of fern trees, their bases covered with thick club
mosses, he ran, and saw the machine ahead. He raced toward it--then
came to a sudden stop, slipping on the damp ground.

For there were _two_ machines in sight.

The farther machine was his own, and through the screening mosses he
could see two figures standing in it, his own and de Terry's.

But the nearer was a larger machine, and a strange design.

And from it came a hastening mob--not a mob of men, but of black insect
shapes racing toward him.

Of course, thought Gordy, as he turned hopelessly to run--of course,
the ants had infinite time to work in. Time enough to build a machine
after the pattern of his own--and time to realize what they had to do
to him, to insure their own race safety.

Gordy stumbled, and the first of the black things was upon him.

As his panicky lungs filled with air for the last time, Gordy knew what
animal had screamed in the depths of the Coal Measure forest.

[Illustration: _He filled his lungs for one last scream._]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LET THE ANTS TRY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
