ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Oh Mesmerist From Mimas!, by Roger Dee

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Oh Mesmerist From Mimas!

Author: Roger Dee

Release Date: February 26, 2021 [eBook #64641]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OH MESMERIST FROM MIMAS! ***




                       Oh Mesmerist from Mimas!

                             By ROGER DEE

              _This gloriously gay smiley character; this
           astounding peace-pervading creature from Saturn's
             inner moon, was radiating like a space beacon
             in a meteor shower when it landed on Mars ...
                it was madness ... gargantuan madness._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Planet Stories January 1953.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The Cargo Declarations mart at Areopolis spaceport was humming busily
when I walked in. A moment later it was as quiet as a church and twice
as attentive.

The sudden hush that fell wasn't out of deference to me, though I'm
pretty well known through the odd corners of the Solar System, but
because of the Mimasan smiley I carried in a ten-inch tungsten wire
cage under my arm. Nothing this side of Saturn's inner moon can lay
down the euphoric aura of peace and brotherhood that a smiley can, and
this one was doing a noble job of it. He was one of the first two ever
to hit Mars, young and healthy and still unmated, and he was radiating
like a space beacon in a meteor shower.

"Hey, it's Blaster Bill Bailey," I heard a trader--an Earthside homo by
the sound of him--say. "What's the beautiful little item you brought
back this time, Bill?"

They crowded around me, Earthies and Eetees--Extraterrestrials--alike,
all trying to get closer to that lovely peace-be-on-you euphoria. I
looked them over carefully, counting the house and estimating their
probable bids, and for the hundredth time it struck me that the place
was more like a zoo than a mart for serious business.

Cargo Declarations is a regular Mecca for Eetee traders from the
outlands. I saw both kinds of Martians, the cat-whiskered, man-like,
yellow city dwellers and their wilder, little, brown baboon-faced
cousins from the red upland deserts; pink-and-white Venusians
glistening like four-foot snails under the celloplast sheaths that kept
them from dehydrating in the dry Martian air; Callistans teetering like
scaly green sawhorses on their four stiff-jointed legs and walking
stick tails; wooly blue tree men from Titan and ponderous Europans
rolling on the little three-wheeled carts they used to carry their
barrel-bellied tonnage.

"It's a smiley," I told them, holding the cage up so they could admire
the soulful little brute. "From Mimas, Saturn's first moon. His name is
Joey and he is very much for sale."

Everybody wanted Joey, naturally. I'd have wanted him myself if I
hadn't learned from the Mimasan natives, who are as rare as smileys and
a damned sight less friendly, that chewing khiff roots would immunize
me against his hypnotic aura. That aura makes smileys remarkable
even among Eetees, so remarkable that nobody had ever brought one in
before. It's their mating call, a very practical gimmick evolved to
attract each other and at the same time protect themselves from native
predators while they carry on their courtship. It works on anything
from swamp gnats to Syrtis Major sand snakes, and it's literally
irresistible.

Joey looked something like a fist-sized marmoset shaped out of
pale blue smoke, his body so insubstantial that you could see the
cage wires through and behind him. It was hard to put a finger on
the quality unless you had learned the hard way, but there was a
weird incompleteness about him that escaped definition. Smileys are
paradoxical little brutes. Unmated, they're only half material because
they actually aren't complete entities. But when they mate--

"Gleef?" Joey said plaintively, yearning at the assorted faces around
him and loving every one of them.

That clinched it. "How much?" somebody asked, and there was a general
digging for wallets and Eetee equivalents.

I had figured my price already, allowing for dealers' profits and
transferral expenses. On Earth Joey would be worth at least a hundred
thousand credits to psychomedic clinics treating mental disorders
ranging from simple hypertension to paranoia. He should net me twenty
thousand, ten of which would go to settle a grubstake lien held by
Martian Bankings against the _Annabelle_, my little eighty-foot space
tug.

The other ten would leave me knee-deep in credit notes for a two week
spree that would begin at the Argonaut Club, which is as far as any
chunk-hopping asteroid prospector ever plans.

       *       *       *       *       *

"First let me point out," I said, giving Joey's aura time to soak in
properly, "that Joey is the first smiley ever captured."

Which was strictly true, though I didn't see fit to mention the second
one, a female named Cora which I had left hidden in an old abandoned
oxygen reduction plant I knew out in Syrtis Major. I had two good
reasons for that: they'd bring higher prices if sold separately, and I
wasn't taking any chances on their getting together before I disposed
of them. Anything could happen if they did.

"Worth a hundred thousand on Earth," I said. "How much am I bid?"

But nobody made me an offer. I might have known it. Some days you just
can't turn an honest credit.

Joey's euphoric appeal should have had the traders scrambling for him,
but I had underestimated his effect. They wanted him, sure, but the
brotherly love he instilled in them made every buyer, Earth homo or
Eetee, ashamed to jack up the price against his neighbor.

We compromised finally by listing Joey for proxy sale, and I took him
out of Cargo Declarations to clear the air. He would be safe in the
_Annabelle's_ cabin because no one who got close enough to steal him
would have the heart to do it, and I'd have time while the bids rolled
in to sample a pitcher or two of yellow Martian skohl down at the
Argonaut Club.

Joey was safe enough, but I wasn't. I hadn't walked more than forty
yards from the _Annabelle_ after putting Joey away when I bumped into
Captain Giles of the spaceport police.

"Wait up," the Captain said. "I'll warn you this time before it
happens, Bailey. If you start another riot at the Argonaut Club--"

Captain Giles was a rail-thin six-footer with a dour hatchet face
burned to leather by Martian sun and wind, a hard-boiled but
conscientious patrol officer who had missed his calling. He should have
been a missionary, being as chaste as a Cosmicist monk and twice as
stern.

I heard variations of his ultimatum every time I put down at Areopolis.
But this time I had the answer to it.

"Will you step over to the _Annabelle_ with me, Captain?" I asked. "I'd
like your opinion on the cargo I brought in."

He went, glowering and suspicious. Sixty feet from the _Annabelle_ we
walked into Joey's euphoric aura, and his grumbling was shut off as if
somebody had turned a spigot.

"I don't understand this," the Captain said, giving me a saintly smile
that would have sent his hard-boiled crew into a mass faint. "But it's
really rather wonderful.... Let me beg you again, William, to shun that
disreputable Argonaut Club. Some day--"

"I know," I finished for him. "Some day your patrolies will sweep me
out of there in small, unidentifiable fragments. A dirty job."

I left him there with his bright new smile wearing strange creases in
his hard hatchet face and walked down from the landing apron to the
street. That was when I learned that I wasn't as safe as Joey.

The instant I set foot in the street a couple of professional uglies
closed in on me, a sharp-faced Earth homo and a cat-whiskered yellow
Martie in bright Terran clothing. The two of them were armed with
bell-mouthed freeze guns, and they were bent on business.

I never had a chance. They ushered me into a waiting sand-car and took
away the Quantrell blaster I wore buckled over my coveralls.

"We hear you got a smiley for sale, chunk-hopper," the sharp homo said
while the Martie started the sand-car. "Well, we got you a buyer for
it."

They didn't really need the car except for privacy. Our trip took us
only half a block down the street where we stepped out at the last
place I'd have expected to market a smiley--at the palatial office
building of Solar Shipping, a billion-credit corporation headed by one
Hume Shanig, space-line tycoon and crooked financier extraordinary.

       *       *       *       *       *

I had heard plenty about Shanig, though I'd never done business with
him. He had a finger in every financial pie on Mars from import houses
to the Argonaut Club, which was directly across the street and which he
owned outright. Dealing with Shanig, rumor said, was like stepping into
a Venusian boghole--easier to get into than out of.

Shanig's uglies chivvied me into a reception room that was all
skylights and soft rugs and shining saffa-wood furniture. A big desk
stood in the center. Behind the desk sat Shanig's secretary.

It was almost worth being kidnapped to be able to stand and look at
her. She was a beauty, a tall clean-lined redhead with all the curves a
prodigal heredity ever promised a female of the species homo. And she
had a warm red mouth and clear green eyes that matched her hair.

"Buzz the boss that we got his homo, Cheryl," the Earthie said. "And
snap it up, baby. The Chief is but eager about this smiley deal."

The girl gave him a curt green glare. "Miss Trayne, to you," she
snapped. But she pushed the buzzer on her desk, and a rasping voice
from her audiphone said that we should come in.

I knew only one of the three men in the office beyond. He was a little
blond truckler named Perry Acree who held a booking-clerk's berth
at Cargo Declarations, and I didn't need to look twice at the smug
complacence of his chicken-chinned face to guess who had tipped Shanig
about my smiley.

The second was a fat, dignified homo with a clipped gray mustache and
the deliberate look of a top-flight medic. The third was Shanig himself.

Physically, the great man had seen better days. He was small and old
and wizened and bald, and the creases in his sallow face could have
been carved with a kit of engraver's tools. His scrawny neck hung in
slack wattles, and the hooked nose and hot black eyes of him made him
look like a dissipated desert buzzard. But I wasn't tempted to sell
him short for even in illness Shanig had the air about him of a baited
steel trap. He was an empire builder, one of these human dynamos who
pile up fortunes and then die of gastric ulcers before they can spend
their loot.

"I dislike bringing you here under duress, Bailey," Shanig said. He was
trying to make it smooth, but even so he barked like a Syrtis Major
jackal. "Dr. Humphrey will explain my reasons for being so precipitate."

The medic harumphed reluctantly and fiddled with his mustache. Plainly
he didn't like any part of it.

"Mr. Shanig," he said, "suffers from a chronic condition of extreme
nervous tension, a result of the years of overstrain imposed upon him
by his business enterprises. I have prescribed rest and relaxation, but
at this late date Mr. Shanig is constitutionally unable to pursue that
course.

"He is, in a word, incapable of relaxing; yet relax he must or collapse
completely. Sedatives are unsatisfactory, impairing the mental
processes. Mr. Shanig does not trust hypnotherapy.

"As a consequence we find ourselves with only one alternative--a happy
chance resulting from your arrival at Areopolis with this, ah, smiley."

I got it then. At first glance it was a neat enough idea; the catch
was that Shanig didn't know his smileys. He couldn't put himself under
Joey's euphoric golden-rule spell and still direct a big business.

And besides that I hadn't gone through the slimy hells of those Mimasan
jungles to rehabilitate a burned-out old credit-shark like Hume Shanig.
Joey belonged to humanity, to the poor overwrought hypertensive homos
who really needed him.

"If you want my smiley to keep this old goat from snapping his leash,"
I said, "the answer is no. Joey would quiet him down like a country
churchyard, sure, but--"

Shanig cut me short by smacking a peremptory hand on his desk top.

"That will be all, Dr. Humphrey," he barked. "Get out."

       *       *       *       *       *

When the medic had gone Shanig turned on me. "I have no time to waste
in haggling, Bailey. How much do you ask for this creature?"

I thought it over and it still read the same.

More was at stake than the wasting of Joey's talents on a bad hat like
Shanig. There was the inevitable blowup that must come later. When
Shanig found out what being too long under a smiley's influence could
do to a homo with his financial responsibilities, there would be the
devil to pay for fair.

"I don't want trouble," I said, trying to be diplomatic. "But I can't
sell Joey to you. If you'd let me explain--"

"You have a commitment against your prospect ship, I believe," Shanig
cut in. "An obligation commonly referred to as a grubstake lien, is it
not?"

"With Martian Bankings," I admitted. "It's a couple of weeks overdue
at the moment but Martian is a friendly outfit. They'll wait for their
credits until I sell the smiley."

I couldn't be sure whether Shanig laughed or barked.

"I anticipated your reluctance to sell so I purchased your lien from
Martian Bankings two hours ago. I know your reputed fondness for your
ship, and I understand too that a similar craft cannot be bought for
twice the amount of your financial obligation."

He had me cold. It was a dirty trick of Martian's to sell me out, but I
could see how it was when Shanig put the screws to them.

"You are in no position to bargain with me, you simple fool," Shanig
said, looking more than ever like a dissipated buzzard. "I shall make
you one offer before claiming forfeit--the cancellation of your debt
plus five thousand credits in cash."

He shouldn't have baited me with the _Annabelle_. I love that rusty old
tub the way some homos love their women. And after being sandbagged
with Shanig's kind of persuasion I began to figure that selling Joey to
him was as neat a revenge as I could ask. He deserved it--plus.

"All right," I said. "You've bought a smiley."

Shanig thumbed his buzzer and the redhead came in from the reception
office with a legal-looking paper in her hand. She went straight to
Shanig's desk, walking in a way to make any homo's pulse beat out of
step, but when she passed Perry Acree the two of them exchanged a
swift, secret look of complete understanding that actually made me
flinch.

Sometimes I think I'll never understand women. Here was this gorgeous
wench, five-feet-ten and built like a hermit's dream, and what did she
pick? An egregious little idiot who--

"Sign here," Shanig grunted. He fitted the paper onto a desk pad and
whipped it toward me along with a stylus.

It was a simple enough contract release giving me full title to the
_Annabelle_ plus five thousand credits in exchange for uncontested
ownership to one male Mimasan smiley answering to the name of Joey.

Something about the pad-and-stylus routine rang a warning bell at
the back of my mind but I was too mad to listen. I wrote "William X.
Bailey" in the proper blank and the deed was done.

When Perry Acree and Shanig's hired homo signed as witnesses all of us
stood up but Shanig.

"That's all," Shanig snapped, pushing a check for five thousand credits
at me. "Get out!"

I took the check and went out, so mad I could feel my ears crisping.
Entering the reception room again, it didn't soothe my mangled ego any
to get a disdainful once-over from the redhead.

"I'm taking a weekend off with this little item to see the sights," I
said, snapping the check. "Like to come along for the ride? There's a
little pleasure colony up on Phobos that's out of this universe, where
anything goes."

"Not with you, you swamp-stained wolf," she snapped. When I waited,
grinning, she bit her lip and her eyes shot green sparks. "Beat it or
I'll buzz for Perry."


                                  II

I didn't mind the brush-off but the idea of her calling for Perry Acree
to toss me out fanned my slow burn to a blaze.

"That seed-sized cipher?" I scoffed. "Why, for two centi-credits I'd--"

Shanig's door opened and Perry came out. He added up the score in a
blink and jumped to the conclusion that I was waiting to settle with
him.

"Now look, Bill," he began. "I couldn't help it if--"

"That secret agent stunt of yours just cost me five thousand credits,
Acree," I said, cutting him short. "I think you're going to be as sorry
as Shanig before this is over."

He lost the little color he had. "I don't want trouble with you, Mr.
Bailey! Cheryl, will you--"

The girl pushed her buzzer. Her eyes dodged mine, and I could read her
mind like the back of a credit-note. She was making allowances for
Perry but it hurt to call for help.

Shanig's office door opened again and his two uglies came out. Both of
them had freeze guns and the yellow Martie wore my Quantrell blaster
tucked into his belt, but it was plain that they didn't expect to need
them.

"Hey, take it easy!" Perry wailed, not wanting any part of this.
"That's Blaster Bill Bailey you jerks are--"

They closed in, disregarding him, and I cracked their heads together
hard enough to make their knees bend like rubber. Then I took back my
Quantrell and left them holding each other up like a pair of skohl
addicts.

"You can phonovise me at the Argonaut Club if you change your mind
about that weekend on Phobos," I told the redhead. "But don't wait too
long or this will have gone the way of all credits."

I tucked the check away and went out with Perry Acree trailing
apologetically at my heels. Shanig had sent him to bring back the
smiley it seemed, so I let him tag along. He left the _Annabelle_ with
Joey under his arm and that mesmerized Sunday-services look on his
face, and I strolled down to Martian Bankings with my check.

It wasn't really a surprise to find that Shanig had stopped payment on
it. What did give me the devil of a turn, though, was realizing that he
must have double-dealt me about the _Annabelle_, too. If he wouldn't
honor a five-thousand-credit contract he'd certainly balk at giving up
a twenty-thousand-credit ship.

I broke all sprint records back to the spaceyards and slammed the
_Annabelle's_ port practically in the faces of Captain Giles and a
squad of patrolies who had been sent by Shanig to secure his latest
acquisition.

Giles and his crew were yelling blue murder when I cut in the
_Annabelle's_ jets. A moment later they were racing like mad to beat
the apron-flash of the blastoff.

It was all my own fault, I told myself. I should have suspected that
desk-pad-and-stylus snare of Shanig's--he had slipped a telewriter
plate under my contract release, and when I signed it I signed another
paper, by remote control, in another office. A paper that surrendered
my smiley and also my equity in the _Annabelle_.

All I had now was a worthless check and a ship spaced in defiance of
legal foreclosure. I'd be lucky, I figured, if I didn't owe Shanig a
few thousand credits into the bargain.

       *       *       *       *       *

I didn't hit for open space, knowing that Captain Giles would have a
radar spotting-net out for me. Instead I swung the _Annabelle_ eastward
and whizzed over Syrtis Major toward the abandoned oxygen-reduction
plant where I had hidden Cora, my other smiley. I needed a hideout
while I figured out a campaign to clear myself, and there was a flimsy
old warehouse at the oxy-plant that would screen the _Annabelle_ nicely.

I scouted the desert carefully before drifting in for landing, and saw
nothing but a great desolate ocean of gritty red sand. Back in the days
when Earth was just beginning to cool off that desert might have been a
landscape of sorts, but aeons of oxidation had changed all that. It was
nothing now but a waste of powdered iron rust, sifted fine by a million
winds and patterned by the feet of jackals.

The old reduction plant huddled in a wide, shallow depression made in
years past by the scooping and hauling of sand to the converters.
It reminded me of the ghost towns I had read of as a kid, before
telemovies and stereo-spools replaced the old historical novels
carried over from the twentieth century. It was never haunted by
Indians and buffalo, but it had seen its share of jackals and sand
snakes, and the wild, little, brown baboon-faced Marties of the deserts
had smashed all its windows when the Earthies moved on.

Not many reduction plants were needed on Mars any more. The first homos
to come had to wear atmosphere masks--a first-water paradox, because
the rusty red deserts were full of good oxygen locked up in simple
ferrous oxide form--but they soon changed that. When enough of them
had come they set up atom-powered reduction plants by the hundreds,
breaking the red sand back to its primal elements of iron and oxygen.

They used the iron in their first cities and they let the oxygen go
free. Before the Big Jump there used to be arguments, I've heard, to
the effect that Earthies could never live permanently on Mars because
the air was too thin and oxygen-poor. But unlocking oxygen from the
sand solved half the problem, and the other half never existed.

In the .38 gravity of Mars, any physical action requires only a
fraction more than one-third as much effort as it would require on
Earth. And only one-third as much oxygen is needed to sustain that
effort.

So a hundred years after Earthmen abandoned the Syrtis Major plant,
I had a perfect place to lick my wounds in privacy. I berthed the
_Annabelle_ in the old warehouse, opened her up from bow to stern to
let out the stink of stale tobacco smoke and machine oil, and brought
my second smiley out of the dusty records vault where I had hidden her.

Cora was as affectionate as Joey and twice as eager. She made an
earnest effort to hypnotize me with that euphoric mating call of hers,
but when the khiff root kept me immune she settled down to staring
wistfully across the desert toward Areopolis where Joey radiated back
at her.

I broke out the emergency rations I lived on while prospecting the
asteroids or moon-hopping, and sat down to think. I had to clear myself
with Captain Giles or I'd never see Areopolis or the Argonaut Club
again. I had to break Shanig's claim against the _Annabelle_ or I'd be
an asteroid prospector without a ship. In other words, a bum.

And besides that I'd have to settle with Shanig for the slimy trick he
had pulled on me or I'd be laughed out of the System. For some reason,
considering that angle reminded me again of the unlikely old romances
I'd read of the days when people rode horses and steam engines and
chivvied buffalo around with red-hot stamping irons. They prospected
for the rare earths--gold was a precious metal then, I think--and they
had to keep their reputations as he-men intact or go down before the
pellet guns of their fellow homos.

It seemed to me that things hadn't changed so much, after all. I had
some small reputation of my own in the outlands, and if I let a wizened
little credit-shark like Shanig beat me I was done for.

So I sat in front of the rickety old warehouse and munched my E-rations
and thought about those things until finally, being the honest type, I
had to admit that none of them mattered half as much as getting back
to Areopolis and making another pitch at a streamlined redhead with
scornful green eyes. There was still an outside chance that Cheryl
Trayne might have phonovised me at the Argonaut Bar about that weekend
on Phobos, and....

I was daydreaming about that when the shutter-speed sunset of Mars
flicked away the day and left me sitting in darkness with the Syrtis
Major wind sharp and cold on my face and the wild howling of desert
jackals in my ears.


                                  III

For three interminable days I sat around the old oxy-plant, eating
and sleeping and thinking, and the monotony of it got deadlier and
deadlier. I couldn't even switch on my communications equipment for the
news since Captain Giles and his lads might be making spot patrols,
and the localized radiation of my receiving unit would be enough to
pinpoint me.

I had a fair idea of what went on with Shanig, though. No homo can
operate after his fashion without making enemies, and the bigger his
business the more powerful his enemies. Vigilance becomes the price
of existence, financially speaking, and it was on that point that I
figured Shanig had over-reached himself.

All that was pure guesswork, of course, until the afternoon of the
third day. Then I had unexpected confirmation of it, brought by the
last person on Mars I dreamed of seeing.

I was in the _Annabelle's_ cabin with Cora when the helicar settled
in front of my makeshift hangar. I came out on the double with my
Quantrell ready, and saw Cheryl Trayne standing in the warehouse
entrance. The sun, hanging low on the desert's rim, outlined her
tantalizingly against a blaze of light and made her hair a shimmering
halo of burnished copper.

It was so wonderful to see her, but at the same time I was a little
disappointed. It had been a pleasant possibility that she might change
her mind about that Phobos trip, but to have her track me down like
this.

"How did you find me?" I demanded. "And who's with you?"

She gave me a child's trusting smile, a reversal of her old haughty
brush-off that gave me the devil of a jolt until I remembered Cora in
the _Annabelle's_ cabin. Cheryl was as deep under Cora's spell now as
she must have been under Joey's before--

"Never mind that," I said. "How did you get away from Shanig's smiley?
Is Shanig out of his trance, too?"

She looked puzzled, as if she were trying to remember something
tremendously important.

"I came alone," she said. "I traced you through Joey, after Mr. Shanig
sent Perry away with him. I remembered then how Joey always faced
toward the east when he was quiet. He used to crouch for hours in his
cage when no one was near him and stare in this direction. After he was
gone it came to me that he sensed another smiley somewhere was calling
to it. And if there was another smiley on Mars...."

"Then I had brought it and I'd be with it," I finished for her. "Neat
enough. I only hope no one else thought of it."

She gave me that trusting smile again, and my conscience dealt me a
sharp nudge. I went over and gave her a khiff root.

"Chew it," I said. "Never mind the taste. It'll make you as good as
new."

She took it obediently, and a couple of minutes later something like
horror chased the contentment out of her face. She stared at me, her
green eyes turning angry.

"You must have enjoyed seeing me like that," she said acidly. "It never
occurred to me that I'd fall under the other smiley's influence if I
found you or I'd never have--"

"You'd never have dared come at all," I said. "You'd have been afraid
I'd bring up that Phobos jaunt again, and you couldn't have said no
with Cora around."

She bit her lip in the way she had, and I could see her admitting
reluctantly that she might just possibly have misjudged me.

"All right, you found me," I said. "Now give. What happened? How did
Shanig get rid of Joey and why did you hunt me down if you're still
nursing a phobia against Phobos?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Shanig's underofficials at Solar Shipping rescued him," she said.
"They couldn't reach him at first because everyone they sent fell under
the smiley's influence. But they had to do something. Shanig was like
an irresponsible child, giving away company holdings as well as his
own. They were so frantic that--"

"I tried to warn him," I pointed out. "He turned cherub the instant
Perry arrived with Joey, didn't he? Word of it got around in nothing
flat and his competitors, his enemies, starting phonovising him right
and left. They must have stood in line at the telewrite stations to
take his holdings and Solar's. A couple of days of that must have
practically ruined him and Solar Shipping as well. How did they snap
him out of it?"

"They phonovised him to step out on his window balcony. When he came
out to the rail they knocked him off with a freeze gun and caught him
with a net in the street below. He almost went mad when he realized
what he had done."

I grinned for two reasons. I had been right and Shanig had lost his
shirt. It served him right.

"So Shanig is starting from scratch again. What line is he taking?"

For the first time she looked scared.

"A line you didn't anticipate. Solar's stockholders have ordered him
to recover what he gave away, and he's taking no chances on losing what
personal holdings he has left. He tried to eliminate Perry and me the
minute he snapped back to normal, and he'll have you erased as soon as
you're taken."

I stared at her. "That's going pretty far, even for Shanig. Why should
he beam us out?"

She gave me an exasperated look. "Because he's afraid you might force
Perry and me to swear that he tricked you on your contract release.
It didn't matter before when he was powerful enough to smother the
charge, but he's been so hard hit that he can't risk a reversal of that
contract now. Don't you see? If you brought suit for reparations and
won it would ruin him. The only way Shanig can make himself safe is to
eliminate you as claimant or to get rid of Perry and me as witnesses."

It was a deadly sort of logic. I had expected Shanig to yell foul but I
hadn't looked for a planet-wide homo hunt with myself as the quarry.

"It's up to us, then," I said. "We'll have to settle Shanig first or
he'll get us as sure as sin."

She didn't look so frightened now as embarrassed.

"That's why I came to you. We can keep out of Shanig's way, perhaps,
but poor Perry is trapped. Someone will have to get him out of that
horrible place before Shanig reaches him."

I gaped a little over that one. "What horrible place? Where is Perry?"

"At the Argonaut Club," she said. "As soon as Shanig was himself again
he photovised Perry and ordered him to take the smiley there, partly to
get Joey away and partly to cut down breakage expense at the Argonaut.
Perry's been there all day, associating with Eetee outlanders and
drinking skohl like any common spacehand. He'll drink himself to death
before Shanig finds a way to get to him, if we don't hurry."

I laughed until my face hurt. I couldn't help it. The idea of Perry
Acree drinking himself blind in the Argonaut's rowdy company was too
much. Thinking about the prayer-meeting hush that Joey must be laying
over the toughest shot-slot in the System made it all the funnier
until the real reason for Cheryl's hunting me down percolated through
my skull and sobered me up.

Her motive was enlightening, but not flattering.

       *       *       *       *       *

"So that's why you risked your luscious hide to find me," I said. "To
talk me into dragging that idiot dwarf out of the Argonaut. Am I right?"

She looked hopping mad and pleading at the same time, which is quite a
trick even for a redhead.

"You can do it if anyone can. I checked on your background this
morning, and it seems that--well, that you may not be the windbag I
thought you after all. One asteroid prospector told me that you--"

"Never believe a chunk-hopper," I told her. "They lie for fun or on
principle, depending on the circumstances. But I'm not interested in
Perry Acree. If he hadn't tipped Shanig to my smiley none of this would
have happened. The _Annabelle_ would be clear of debt and I'd be in the
Argonaut instead of Perry. Why should I risk my neck for that simpering
sycophant?"

She had trouble telling me why. Having to ask my help burned her
plenty, and its being Perry's fault made it worse. She turned pink and
talked in circles, not meeting my eye, and when I finally guessed how
she had meant to persuade me you could have clubbed me down with a sand
thistle.

"You really _are_ sold on that puling parasite," I said. "Look, are you
sure he's worth a weekend on Phobos?"

"Beast!" she cried, and slapped my face.

"Good enough," I said when my ears stopped ringing. "Faint heart never
haggled with fair hell-cat. Let's go rescue your skohl-swilling light
of love."

I moved Cora's little tungsten cage into the helicar and Cheryl took
us up. We didn't have to wait for darkness. The split-second Martian
twilight took care of that in the wink of an eye.

The two-hour flight was almost pleasant. The stars over our speeding
helicar glittered down like far, frosty eyes and the gritty red ocean
of desert under us lost its harshness and took on a magic pattern of
soft, shifting shadows. Phobos paced us across the black night sky like
a swift silver morning-star, and the little gray jackals crept out
of their dens and howled at her with all the pent-up loneliness of a
million, million years.

Cheryl shivered at their keening, and the thought that she could be as
skittish as other women gave me a little jolt of surprise.

"Mournful little beggars, aren't they?" I said. "I wonder what they'd
think of Earth, with its big yellow moon all night in the sky?"

Cheryl didn't answer, but it seemed to me that she thawed out a little.
It was almost cozy in the helicar after that until the dusty neon haze
of Areopolis ballooned up out of the desert.


                                  IV

We came in low to avoid any radar net the port patrol might have up,
and entered the sleeping city above the shadowy warrens of the native
district.

"You'll have to be careful," Cheryl warned. "And quick. Shanig's men
will be watching the Argonaut, and the police won't have forgotten you
so soon."

"I'll be careful," I said, knowing better than she the sort of odds
Shanig would favor. "The next question is where do I find you after I
drag that case of arrested development out of there?"

She gave me an address. "I took a room there as soon as I realized that
Shanig was after me. I doubt that he's been able to trace me so soon."

We dipped into an apartment house section and Cheryl set the helicar
down in a night-quiet street. "Apartment Six-A," she said. And then,
unexpectedly: "Take care of yourself, Bill, please. Don't do anything
rash!"

I patted her shoulder reassuringly. "You may have to rescue _me_ before
the night is over," I told her. "Stand by your phonovision and be ready
to bring Cora in a hurry if I call you. I can't risk taking her into
the Argonaut because of Joey, but I may need her if I run afoul of
Shanig. Got it?"

She nodded and gave me her phonovision code. I got out of there and
headed down the street while she took the helicar up to her apartment
house roof landing.

It wasn't far. Fifteen minutes of fast walking through the back
streets brought me up a dark alley to the Argonaut's side entrance.
The service door was locked, of course, and as a consequence none of
Shanig's uglies were guarding it.

I kicked it in and went through a dusty corridor into the smoky,
skohl-pungent bar-room.

The instant I was inside I knew that Cheryl had been right. Joey
was there, and he was radiating for all he was worth. There was the
spellbound crowd for proof of that.

The Argonaut Club was known the breadth of the System as the toughest
dive that ever sold a drunken rockethand a pitcher of drugged skohl. I
wound up there every time I touched Mars, and I knew the dump down to
the latest ray-burn on its dingy plastoid walls. You hit some pretty
rowdy shot-slots in the other spaceports, but the Argonaut topped them
all. The Argonaut was rough.

Ordinarily. Tonight it looked like a missionary's picnic.

At the bar, Earthies sporting two-week passage beards and Quantrell
blasters bucked over grimy rocketroom coveralls, rubbed elbows
with cat-whiskered yellow city Martians and their vicious little
baboon-faced cousins from the deserts. Woolly blue tree men from Titan
drank with squishy Venusians and tentacled Ionians. I saw a couple of
Callistans in a corner, braced saw-horse-fashion on their jointless
legs and sticklike tails, grinning happily while they fraternized with
a pair of ponderous Europans. The Europans, coy as two honeymooning
hippos under Joey's spell, blubbered amiably back and rolled in small
polite circles on their little three-wheeled carts.

Even the bouncer was happy.

This last was an Earthie, a big, battered homo named Husky Harrigan who
tipped the scales at two-fifty Earthweight and looked like a tuskless
Mercurian sandhog, bristles and all. I had run into difficulties with
him before. He had the disposition of a thwarted ape, wore brass
knuckles the way other men wore finger rings, and was the prime reason
for the Argonaut's tough reputation.

But tonight Harrigan was as gentle as a dove, circulating through the
crowd and shaking hands with anything that had a hand to shake.

I spotted Perry Acree at once. He was sitting at a table with two
Earthies and a spiny pink Ganymedan, drinking skohl straight from
the pitcher and staring soulfully at nothing in particular. I made a
bee-line for his table but brought up short when I heard Husky Harrigan
roaring my name.

Force of habit made me set myself for trouble, but under Joey's spell,
Harrigan was everybody's friend, even mine. He put out a hairy paw
and grinned like a crocodile, whinnying with joy and showing a set of
second-rate bridgework where somebody had kicked out a handful of teeth.

"Hey, kids, it's Blaster Bill Bailey!" he bellowed. "C'mon and have
fun, Willie. First drink on the house!"

I nearly clipped him for that "Willie" crack before I thought. Not
that I had scruples about clouting an oaf like Harrigan when he was in
no position to strike back. I just couldn't afford the delay. Captain
Giles' patrolies might be along any minute. And there was always Shanig.

       *       *       *       *       *

So I pushed past Harrigan and yanked Perry to his feet.

"Cheryl's waiting for you, Stupid," I said. "Snap to it, before I write
you off and keep the date myself."

He grinned vacuously and came along like a lamb.

The two patrolies looked in through the swinging doors up front when
Perry and I were halfway to the service corridor. Their sunburned faces
lighted up when they saw me, and they shoved the doors wider to command
the room with their bell-mouthed freeze guns. Behind them on the street
stood their tandem air-scooter, lights on and motor purring.

"You're under arrest, Bailey," one of them called. He was a corporal,
and it was written all over him that he saw a sergeant's rating coming
for this night's work. "Come out of that!"

I got a firmer grip on Perry's collar.

"Come and get me," I called back, knowing what would happen if they did.

They came in on the double with their freeze guns ready--and halted,
looking sheepish, when the smiley's aura got to them.

"Aw, forget it," the corporal said. "You're a good guy, Bailey. Go
ahead. Go anywhere you like."

"Sure," the other seconded. "Take our air-scooter if you want. Need any
extra credits where you're going?"

I headed for the service with Perry again but we had waited too long.
One of Shanig's uglies was standing in the doorway with a foolish grin
on his face, and I knew there would be others waiting in the alley
outside. And those others wouldn't be under Joey's influence.

So I cut for the front entrance instead, dragging Perry like a bag of
old laundry. The patrolies' air-scooter stood purring at the curb. I
draped Perry across it and jumped for the operator's seat, expecting to
be beamed down any second. I'd have made it, too, but for Perry.

Perry had taken on a monumental load of skohl during the day, and the
instant he was out of Joey's influence the inflated little ego of him
demanded to be heard. He scrambled off the air-scooter, swelled out his
size thirty-two chest and launched into an old rocketroom ballad--a
smutty saga listing the personal iniquities of the Captain Crow who led
the first Mars flight just before the turn of the century.

    In nineteen hundred and ninety-two
    A _homo_ from Milwaukee
    Warmed up his jets and--

I quieted him with a rabbit punch and tossed him back on the
air-scooter, but the damage was done. I hit the control seat again just
as Shanig's crew swarmed out of the alley and surrounded us.

The air-scooter took off like a rocket when I gave it the gun, plowing
straight through them. I hung on somehow, but Perry wasn't so lucky. He
bounced once and pitched off, square into the enemy's hands.

When I looked back at the first street intersection they had scooped
him up and were headed toward Solar Shipping in a hurry. The sight
reassured me a little. They hadn't blasted Perry on the spot, which
meant that they would probably hold him as hostage until they got
Cheryl as well. One witness at large was as dangerous to Shanig as two,
and the chances were he wouldn't risk beaming out one unless he could
be sure of both.

I took the only course left, doubling the air-scooter back and skimming
toward Shanig's offices.


                                   V

The way the situation added up reminded me of the old historical
thrillers I'd read as a kid, most of them written in the days when our
rough-and-ready ancestors bought contraband skohl from underground
talk-gentlies and rival groups of uglies hijinked each other with
torpedoes. It was something like a present-day telemovie gripper in a
sense, only there wasn't any Colonel Super in this plot to lend me a
hand.

Not that I wasted time looking for help. I wasn't used to it.

Outside the Solar Shipping building I lifted the air-scooter and
swooped up to the balcony outside Shanig's office windows. There wasn't
time to set it down. I needed every second to get inside before Shanig
could give the alarm.

I jumped, and the air-scooter went on without me into the night. It
wouldn't have worked on Earth, but under Mars' .38 gravity an athletic
homo has all the breaks. I landed just inside the guard-rail and dived
through the balcony windows with a great crashing of glass before
Shanig could clap a hand to the buzzer on his desk.

"Don't touch it," I said, and turned my Quantrell on him.

"You!" Shanig barked. His face went sallower than ever, but his hot
black eyes didn't waver. "What do you want here?"

Down the corridor rose a sudden babel of voices--Shanig's crew
returning with their prize.

"They got Acree," I said, heading for the phonovision unit beside
Shanig's desk. "But if you make a sound before they get here you won't
be able to use him. Clear?"

The screen lit up when I touched the switch. I punched the code Cheryl
had given me, and drew the first deep breath I'd had for an hour when
she looked out at me.

"Bring Cora over to Shanig's office on the double," I said. "I'm going
to need her but quick!"

I cut her off without waiting for an answer and punched another number.
Captain Giles stared out at me this time, his weathered hatched face
clownish with astonishment.

"Get a crew of patrolies up to Shanig's offices," I said. "And make it
fast or there's going to be more excitement here than you can write off
your records in a month."

For the first time Shanig looked worried. He saw no threat in Cheryl's
coming, not knowing about my second smiley. But if Captain Giles should
arrive before Perry could be moved--

The crew of uglies outside crossed me up by buzzing Shanig's audiphone.
"We got the little homo, Chief. Shall we bring him in?"

Shanig, knowing that I couldn't afford to beam him at this stage of the
game, tipped them before I could stop him. "Take him away. Bailey's
here!"

I jumped for the door, hoping to grab Perry before they got him away. I
was too late. They were already out of the reception office. All I saw
of Perry Acree was his heels.

That left us at stalemate. Shanig couldn't get away, and I couldn't
leave him unguarded to go after Perry. I was racking my brain for the
next move when it was taken out of my hands.

The phonovision screen beside Shanig's desk lighted up and one of his
uglies looked out. "We got him where he won't be found, Chief. What
next?"

And I let Shanig beat me to the jump again. "The girl is coming here.
Intercept her!"

I made sure it wouldn't happen again by raying the phonovision unit to
a heap of smoking junk. Reflected heat from the flash curled Shanig's
eyebrows, but he didn't flinch.

"That finishes you, Bailey," he said. "My men have Acree safe. They'll
have the girl the instant she appears. Under the circumstances it
should be quite entertaining to watch you prove your position to the
police."

He had me cold. Shanig could afford to wait but I couldn't.

       *       *       *       *       *

It turned out that Shanig's handymen didn't share his confidence in the
police. I heard them getting set in the reception-room corridor to
block any dash I might make. When I sneaked a look through the balcony
windows I caught a glimpse of another group working like beavers in the
building across the alley. They were setting up a tripod affair which I
recognized at a glance as a sleep-bomb catapult.

They had it charged to fire when Captain Giles and his patrolies
arrived. A babble of confusion rose in the corridor again, and the
Captain's harsh bellow silenced it like a hand across the mouth. A
moment later he called through the doorway: "Stand fast, Bailey. We're
coming in, and God help you if you give us trouble!"

I stood fast, giving up any hope of Cheryl's showing up in time. Having
Cora along should make it easy enough for her to get into the building,
but even Cora couldn't help if Captain Giles had already dragged me
away.

Giles came around Shanig's desk toward me, his hatchet face thunderous.
"I've warned you often enough, Bailey. This time you've gone too far."

Shanig treated himself to one of his sandpaper chuckles. "He'll
probably give you some wild story designed to clear himself, Captain.
Don't believe a word of it. I trusted him, and you can see what it led
to!"

The Captain was taking my Quantrell blaster when my reprieve came. One
of Shanig's uglies burst into the office with disaster written all over
him.

"Chief, the girl's coming up in the lift with another smiley! The whole
lower floor is hypnotized. She'd have got me too if the lift hadn't
carried me out of reach!"

I'll give Shanig credit for this--he thought fast. He added up the
score in a flash and lunged across the desk, yelling for his startled
uglies to follow up. If Cheryl got to us with the smiley the jig was
up, and he knew it.

He ripped the Quantrell blaster out of Captain Giles' hand and turned
it on us. He meant to wipe out the lot and clear himself by laying the
carnage to a battle between me and the patrol.

It was close, but not close enough.

A sudden serenity wiped the tension off his face like chalk marks off
a blackboard. Captain Giles and his patrolies slacked off with him,
caught in the same euphoric spell.

They stood smiling and docile while Cheryl Trayne strode in with Cora's
little tungsten cage under her arm. If she had looked good to me
before, right then she looked like a red-haired angel.

"Good girl," I said, and took over from there.

Shanig confessed on the spot to the slimy deal he had pulled over me,
and signed a statement to that effect. He got on the reception-room
phonovision and ordered his crew in the adjoining building to drop
everything and return Perry Acree at once. He destroyed the bogus
contract and took back the elastic check he had given me, and he
enjoyed doing it. Cora, sensing Joey so close in the Argonaut Bar
across the street, was working her mating call overtime.

"It was really inconsiderate of you to swindle our young friend
William," the Captain said to Shanig. "Of course you won't object to
serving a light sentence--say five years--to make amends?"

"Certainly not," Shanig said brightly, beaming back at him. "My only
regret is that I must be separated from this adorable creature. I love
smileys."

He went over to the desk where Cheryl had left Cora's cage and fondled
the little brute through the wires. He played the very devil in doing
it, too. Somehow or other the cage door had worked loose during the
time it had been banged about, and Shanig's fumbling hands slid it open.

Cora was out of the cage and through the broken balcony windows in a
smoky bluish flash, whizzing like a bullet toward the Argonaut Club and
Joey.


                                  VI

Everybody snapped back to normal with a roar. There was a frantic rush
of Shanig's uglies trying to escape and of Giles' patrolies collaring
them again. I took no chances with Shanig. I turned my Quantrell on him
and held him fast.

Hell broke loose in the Argonaut then. Even before the confusion
quieted in Shanig's office we could hear the din that went up across
the street.

From our balcony windows we had a grandstand view of the Argonaut's
more timid patrons exploding out of the place and tearing down the
street, wobbling and lurching each in his own outlandish fashion from
the assortment of Eetee drinks they had taken aboard under Joey's
spell. The rougher souls left inside had begun a battle royal that
raised a bedlam wilder than a robot rooting section at a rocket-games
stadium.

"What is it!" Captain Giles yelled, goggling at a barrel-bellied
Europan who shot out of the Argonaut with a pack of little baboon-faced
Marties harrying its speeding cart from the rear. "What have you done
now?"

"Shanig has just ruined a forty-thousand-credit investment for
me," I told him, "by letting my pair of smileys get together. That
peace-be-on-you feeling they've been broadcasting is a thing of the
past. They feel just the opposite now, and so will anyone who goes near
them."

I had to explain it twice before they got it.

Mimasan smileys, as I've said before, are weird little brutes. Unmated,
their euphoric mating calls attract them to each other and at the same
time protects them from native predators. The catch is that when they
mate they coalesce, each complementing the insubstantiality of the
other to become a single material entity.

And then, of course, there's no further need of their wistful, coaxing
aura.

After that they hate everybody, being newlyweds and not wanting to be
disturbed, so of course they radiate an exactly opposite aura that
guarantees them the privacy their joint little heart craves. Nothing
can come near enough to interrupt them without becoming so rabidly
angry that it has to rush off somewhere else looking for something to
fight. But you see how it goes.

"And from the row going on in the Argonaut," I finished, "I'd say that
Joey and Cora are definitely on their honeymoon."

"You mean they'll be like that always?" Cheryl asked, wide-eyed. "That
no one can go near them without flying into a rage?"

"Not always," I said glumly. "Just for five years. After that they
divide by fission into a dozen or so baby smileys, and after that the
rat-race starts over again. The progeny will be worth plenty, but who's
going to stand guard over that amalgamated little demon while it
broadcasts hate and damnation in every direction? I won't, and there's
not a homo in the System that would take the job for love or--"

The answer hit me like a thumb in the eye, bang in the middle of a
sentence.

"Captain Giles," I said. "I've a suggestion that...."

The Captain got it on first bounce. For the first time in history he
laughed without benefit of smiley.

It worked out neatly enough, at that. An Areopolitan court decreed
that Shanig, being bound by the requirements of Martian law to expiate
his crimes with as little expense to the polity as possible, should
spend the five years of his sentence guarding Joey-Cora in a force-wall
detention area to be set up in Syrtis Major. By the time his term ended
my combination smiley would have fissioned, Shanig would have paid his
debt to society and my investment would have paid dividends.

It could have been worse. For the time being I was out some forty
thousand credits, but I managed to salvage enough for a moderate
celebration by contracting with the government to furnish _khiff_
roots from Mimas to keep Shanig from going berserk under Joey-Cora's
influence.

The arrangement wasn't too hard on Shanig, even. The worst of it would
be the isolation--that, and the packs of Syrtis Major jackals that
would crowd around the force-wall at night and howl for his blood.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Good enough," I told Cheryl after the trial. "That leaves just one
small detail to be arranged. I'll have to wangle another loan from
Martian Bankings."

She raised a slim brow. "Loan? For a grubstake?"

"For our weekend on Phobos," I said. "Remember?"

She laughed. "There's another little detail you overlooked, William. My
ring size is five and one-half."

"Ring?" I said. "Oh, a ring.... Would you rather have a Tellurian
diamond, an A-belt fire-opal, or--"

"Nothing expensive," she cut me off. "Something simpler would be more
appropriate, I think. Under the circumstances, I'd suggest a plain
gold band."

I gaped at her like a swamp-guppy until it seeped through my skull that
she was in dead earnest.

"Wait up," I said. "What about Perry Acree?"

She snapped her fingers. "_That_ for Perry. I thought I wanted the
little creep until you brought him back, but after that I couldn't bear
the sight of him."

"You mean," I said, grasping at any straw, "that you really want to
be--"

"Married," she said definitely. "First and firmly, or no Phobos trips!"

"It wouldn't last," I argued. "Being an A-belt prospector's wife is no
snap, Cheryl. I'd be out in the _Annabelle_ for weeks on end, slamming
around in God knows what kind of dangers. And one of these days I
wouldn't come back at all and you'd be a widow."

"_You_ wouldn't be slamming around," she corrected me softly. "_We_
would, Willie dear. I'd be with you every minute."

That did it. It was "Willie dear" already, and she'd be with me every
minute. Even in port....

"I'll have to give this some serious thought," I said. "Look, you
wouldn't want us to plunge into a deal that wouldn't work out, would
you?"

"Of course not," she said with a demure certainty that made my blood
curdle. "But this will work, Willie darling. I'll see to that."

I got out of there and went down to Martian Bankings in the devil of
a hurry. They were apologetic over selling my grubstake lien, and
were glad to advance me a few thousand credits against Joey-Cora's
expectations.

For once I passed the Argonaut Club without even looking back. A homo
with a skinful of skohl is short on resistance, and resistance just
then was what I needed most.

When I reached the blastoff aprons, the _Annabelle's_ rusty old hulk
was the sweetest sight I ever saw. I pointed her lovely, meteor-dented
nose at the sky and blasted off, and the howling of her jets was like
a lullaby in my ears. The starry backdrop of space ahead was like a
cosmos-sized painting of all Creation, a master canvas done.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OH MESMERIST FROM MIMAS! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
