ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Design For Doomsday, by Bryce Walton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Design For Doomsday

Author: Bryce Walton

Release Date: February 28, 2021 [eBook #64651]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DESIGN FOR DOOMSDAY ***




                          Design For Doomsday

                            By Bryce Walton

           Slogging through Venus' reeking muck and groping
              horrors toward the forbidding dome of Solar
            Science City--treasure-vault of the best brains
            in the System--Guardsman Venard remembered the
            frightened whispers: "An evil god rules there!"

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1948.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The tone of the slurred, emotionless voice was cold and deadly, as were
the tones of all Martians who had taken to their grotesque hearts the
mystic, dictatorial disease of Zharkonism. It droned an implacable
death song from the audio. It echoed horribly down the shadow-eaten
labyrinth of that sprawling death-mart which was officially labeled
Terro Concentration Camp Seven.

    ... _Another exalted warrior of the Occupational Armies of Zharkon,
    the Undying--Zharkon, the ever-just and divine director of the
    Solar System--Zharkon, the voice of the Gods--has been brutally
    slain by terran underground subversives. In retaliation, five
    hundred Terran inferiors will go to the experimental wards by
    decree of our divine Martian Zharkon--Zharkon, our illustrious
    solar father_ ...

The audio droned on. But none of the tier on tier of doomed men
imprisoned in the rehabilitated ruins of Washington's subterranean
levels listened any more. They were ragged, skeletal shapes crouched
like frightened animals in the filthy shadows. Feverishly bright eyes
stared with a fanatic's hunger for death, the release from hopeless,
mind-shattering pain and indignity. Those who would not wilfully sign
away their futures to colonial slavery under the Martian dictatorship
were killed in devious and ghastly ways. The death toll was high.

In each of the little prison cubicles two figures waited, helpless
behind cold metal. It would seem impossible to find even one face which
did not wear the terrible scar of resignation which marks the souls of
the hopeless. Yet in one of these prison cubicles there were two such.
Two Terran Guardsmen.

The great Terran Guards, what few remained of the once colorful and
renowned Solar Patrol, semantically-trained, objective yet warmly
human, knew there was no resignation. That was death if carried to its
obvious conclusion. While one lived, one moved, acted, and was acted
upon. While one lived there was conflict, and there was always hope.

Although perhaps only the few remnants of the Guards and the small
Underground which flourished dangerously somewhere in the ruins of
the Earth retained this pre-Solar War attitude. Perhaps this stubborn
minority totaled one percent. Perhaps. No one knew.

The tall, gaunt figure gripped the prison bars in two big hands. Karl
Venard, Ex-Lieutenant, strained hawk-like features outward, his thin
lips twisted. He turned suddenly to snarl, "This is it, Louie. We're
the only two Guardsmen left in this sad hole. We'll be among this
draft. Start praying."

Louie Larson, the little man who still, somehow, managed to be
overweight in spite of being half-starved, shivered.

"The least you can do is die like a man," snarled Venard. "You're a
disgrace to the Guards."

The fat little man grabbed Venard's ragged sleeves.

"Remember what the grapevine said last night, Karl? It said that the
Underground on Mars had managed to blow up the Zharkon's throne room
and him in it. It said the Zharkon had been injured, maybe killed, that
his double-brain was on the blink. Maybe that's right, Karl. Maybe it
might really have happened! Gad, Karl. If they've done that, I don't
care about dying. Knowin' that, death would be a pleasure, almost. Tell
me you think it's so, Karl. I'll not be scared any more, if you'll say
you believe it's true."

"How the devil should I know," murmured Venard. "I doubt it. Maybe
there is an Underground operating on Mars as efficiently as the one
here on Earth, but I doubt it. The Marties fell for that Zharkonism
mania like a degravitated dwarf star. And even if they do have a
working Underground organization there how could they ever get into the
Zharkon's throne room? That's carrying wishful thinking a little too
far, Kewpie Doll. Forget it."

"Listen," sputtered the little man desperately, "how about them
Martians who went to the Academy with us? They'd never fall for
Zharkonism. They was semantically-trained, too. They're too smart for
all this myth and legend stuff. I'll bet every solar credit I might
have had that Jhongan could have gotten into that throne room."

Venard's harsh features softened for an instant. Jhongan, the Martian,
had studied in the Academy during the golden days of the Solar
Democratic Federation. Yes, Martians like Jhongan would never have
become Zharkonites. But there were too few of them. His hardened mouth
curled cynically.

"Start praying, Kewpie Doll. If semantics can turn out an anachronism
like you it can even manufacture incipient Zharkonites. Why, you can't
even speak good old Terro-English."

Louis Larson looked as though he were going to cry. "We gotta do
something, Karl. It only takes a few minutes after one of them
announcements for them heathen Marties to start playin' human grab bag.
We gotta do something!"

"What do you want to do, Kewpie Doll, live forever?" grinned Venard.
"Besides, there is a way out for us. We don't have to go to the
experimental wards. Have you forgotten this little memento from my long
lost love?"

       *       *       *       *       *

With infinite caution, Venard disclosed the memory-crystal, taking it
with a kind of dignified stealth from beneath the rags that had once
been a shirt. Dreamily he studied the small, delicate translucence of
the sphere. He had managed to retain that from the pawing Marties'
greedy scanners. Looking back into Venard's eyes from the shifting
beauty of the sphere, the three-dimensional, almost frighteningly
life-like figure of Vale who had once loved Venard, preened and sighed
provocatively. The figure moved, danced in lithe grace through shifting
clouds. A strange, heart-aching vision of reality and dream.

Louie Larson's beady black eyes bulged, sweat popped out of his pallid
skin and trickled down through the bristles of his dirt-caked beard.
"You--you're gonna use _that_?"

"Suicide, that's better than the experimental ward, isn't it? Kewpie
Doll, sometimes you leave the experimental wards alive, but no one
would ever guess you had once been human. They work on the genes, son.
And they're devilishly clever." He gripped the memory-crystal. "This
is a quick and easy way. There's enough of that amazing explosive
developed by the Venusian Sea People in this crystal to blow everything
for fifty yards around us to hell. Oh, I'll use it, Kewpie Doll."

"Sure, I'd prefer it to the wards," moaned Larson softly, "but
this--this suicide, it's so final."

"There's something pretty nice about finality, Kewpie Doll. If you can
really find it."

They waited. Larson picked at his beard, lips twitching. Venard looked
dreamily into the cloudy depths of the memory-crystal. Next to them
in a stinking cell, a man began to cry, a series of burbling choking
cries of fear and hopeless hate. From somewhere far down the corridor,
a woman was singing an ancient hymn.

Venard was extremely fortunate to have retained the memory-crystal.
A few prisoners had been able to do likewise. Because of the unique
physiogenic quality of the little spheres, ordinary scanners failed to
detect their presence. They were small and could be concealed under
one's clothing, and passed from one prisoner to another to escape
discovery. Others had used their suicidal capacity for a final escape
from unspeakable pain and horror.

Because of the difficulty in finding them, the memory-spheres
constituted a constant threat to the Martian guards. Many a Martie
had developed violent neurosis from knowing that the prisoners they
guarded might be hiding a memory-crystal, and might also at any moment,
merely by pressing a small release within the spheres, set off the
mutually antagonistic elements and blow up guards, prisoners and things
surrounding them to bloody ruin.

The incredibly beautiful and life-like face floating inside the crystal
laughed mockingly up at Venard through opaque, silvery mists. No horror
there. The little, diaphanous, three-dimensional figure dancing through
the shifting vapors of the memory-sphere floated in a never-ending
dream of things as they might have been. Vale, lovely and enchanting
Vale, the way she had looked and danced when she had loved him in those
carefree happy days before the Solar War. Nostalgia, bitterly sweet,
of lost and unrecoverable nights, dream-lost beauty of Luna nights the
blood-drenched holocaust. Vale, before she had went away to Venus and
to that hungry maw that ate up _the_ best minds of the Solar System,
Solar Science City.

Venard swore softly to himself. How silly he was to feed on memory,
like a parasite gnawing on itself and growing hungrier with each futile
bite.

The little man's eyes stared through the bars into the dreary shadows
of the cell block. "Gods, Karl!" he moaned suddenly. "Karl! I hear 'em
comin' down the line! Dirty heathens."

Ex-lieutenant K. Venard looked down curiously at the bald head. No one
would guess the existence there of steel nerves, iron will, somehow
strangely integrated with a golden heart.

"I hear 'em," Larson whispered hoarsely.
"Swissshhh--swissshhh--swisshhhh. I hear their slimy feet squeegyin'
along. I hear their body juices sloshin' around inside their cold
bellies like walkin' quarts of _stihn_. Karl--if I only had a quart of
_stihn_!" Abruptly he sank down in a sad, dejected heap.

"Yeah," growled the ex-lieutenant. "Keep crying, Kewpie Doll. If
something happens to our memory-crystal here, we'll be drinking
vat-acid tonight."

"Oh, don't talk that way, Karl!" moaned Larson. "Things is bad enough.
Things is simply terrible. Either we blow ourselves to tendons or
get pried and peered into by these furriners. We're gonna have those
probosci dinnin' into our innards. We're gonna--"

"Shut up!" yelled Venard. Maybe the little man really was cracking up.
No man is infallible. Maybe he, Karl Venard, would crack up too. He
and Larson had been through a lot. But never anything like this. This
was definite, inescapable. Maybe a little rationalizing, and wishful
thinking, would be a good idea. Maybe he could even talk himself into
believing that grapevine story about the Zharkon.

"What do we care, Kewpie Doll," he said, grabbed Larson and lifted him
onto his feet. "I been thinkin' it over, and I think maybe that story
about the Zharkon getting his double-brain injured might have some
basis in fact. The way I figure it, that story is too fantastic to be
handed out with any expectation of having it believed if it weren't
true. Or at least we can assume it has some basis in reality."

Larson's round, staring face altered with sudden violence. His hands
clutched Venard's sleeves. His eyes brightened. "Say it again. Keep on
sayin' it."

Venard said it again. It was working. He really was beginning to
believe it himself. "Sure it's very, very possible that the old
semantically-trained Martians like Jhongan got into that throne room
someway and conked out the Zharkon's double-brain, and that's a lot
of conking. And do you know what that means? It means the whole
Zharkonistic set-up will be thrown off center, maybe disintegrate
entirely. Remember, the Marties have regressed in a social sense.
They're primitives now. They worship the old gods--Styx, Amphoor,
Aalghor. Their leader, the Zharkon, is the mouthpiece of the gods.
If he goes, the gods and the whole militaristic mythology could very
possibly crumble overnight."

It sounded magnificent. And it was possible, if one was sufficiently
desperate.

"But it ain't true, an' you know it, Karl," moaned Larson.

"Oh, the devil with you," yelled Venard. "You're a negativistic
melancholic, among other unmentionable things. As an example of the
semantically-trained mind, you speak oddly for the world of null-A."

"The awful disgrace of it, Karl. The whole Solar System taken over by
barbaric sponges with legs. Who'd ever thought they had it in 'em?"

Venard gripped the cell bars in his big hands and pressed his forehead
tightly against the cool hardness. "Yeah," he muttered. "Damnation,
Kewpie Doll! I wish we could've escaped to the Underground. If the
Martian Underground have really managed to injure Zharkon, that
means maybe the Martian Terro-Colonial Armies of Occupation might
disorganize, fall apart. And if we could only contact the Underground
here--"

Venard shook his head; sweat speckled the metal wall. Fools. There
was nothing to the rumor, because such a thing was impossible. There
was no escape. Only the memory-crystal, a quick, self-administered
destruction. Blackout.

Larson's voice was a faint, far-away whisper. "They're comin' for us.
Look at them furriners--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Metal doors had been clanging open. Venard was suddenly aware of the
shuffling of feet and the lifeless stirring and phlegmatic voices of
those whose minds had surrendered. Venard leaned against the wall of
the cubicle. He wouldn't stand at attention now. Not again. He had
once to avoid being beaten. But they couldn't do anything more to a
man than kill him. And he would take care of that now, his own way.
A much quicker and less complicated way than was to be found in the
experimental wards.

The women were the first of the pathetic line of chained humans who
staggered into sight around a turn in the dark corridor. Their cells
were on the west half of Concentration Camp No. 7 and they were always
first in the hostage lines. Bony human wrecks in drab and ragged
sack-like garments. Grey faces behind dry strings of unhealthy, scaly
hair.

"The Marties, they ain't got any intelligence at all," whispered
Larson, "to make beautiful females look that way. They're fiends. I
remember when maybe them very ladies used to dance to a Ganymedian
orchestra in the Lunaville escapeasy. That first one, now, she might be
Glora Karstedt. Glora was the most beautiful woman in the System. Hey,
Glora! Remember me, Kewpie Doll Larson?"

The pathetic skin-and-bone shape didn't even smile. Dull eyes stared
straight ahead, pallid, blood-streaked face that was a blank mask of
frozen horror. Venard gripped the bars. His knuckles shone whitely, his
whole body a tense, helpless arc of mental torture. "If they could only
die as Earthmen," he said softly. "And not as slaves."

Two Marties paused, one pressed a button.

"It's us all right," said Venard tensely. The cell door ground open.
Boneless lengths of purple-veined arms, muscled like serpents, reached
in and dragged the little man out first. Others reached for Venard.
Animate sacks of liquid intelligence. Four sliding and contracting
feet like snails. Filamented arms of great strength guided by highly
emotional intelligence. Judged by human standards, these were horrors.
Yet intelligence can hide behind any kind of facade. A mind adjusted
to Solar concepts is influenced by intelligence and behavior alone,
not by exterior physical aspects. These Martians had been good Solar
citizens once, responsible and progressive. But they had been seduced
by delusions of grandeur. The old Martian Royalists who had been
overthrown a hundred years ago had returned. And returning, they had
conquered democratic progressive thought, returned Mars to the old gods
of carnage and dark evil, had plunged the Solar System into an orgy of
primitive blood-lust, barbarism and hate.

Venard swore, threw off a heavy, plopping arm. Somehow, the heavy
bulging body sacks had always resembled punching bags. He had longed to
test this visual impression with tactile experimentation. A squeeshing
smack belched out from beneath his fist. The shocked Martie stumbled
back against the line of apathetic prisoners. Articulation on the tips
of its appendages writhed after the butt of its sheathed H-gun.

[Illustration: _The shocked Martie stumbled back._]

But it didn't kill. Sadists in the experimental wards wanted every
organism for their grisly research.

"Oh, Karl, you shouldn't ought to have done that," groaned Larson as
he lifted the chain another Martie was trying to lower around his
thick neck. Larson wrapped it around the Martian's purple-veined head
instead, and with considerable force. Then a heavy arm slashed like a
huge whip, thudded across Larson's flat nose. Blood spattered as the
little man slumped, groaning, to his knees.

Venard was struggling in blind, hating helplessness with a number of
arms that had encircled him like cable coils. And after that, as the
line shuffled along, the chains were cold as space around his neck. And
the thudding of the leathery arms flailing his back burned deeper than
any Martie knew.

But against his side, in a little plastic pouch, the memory-crystal
nestled. It was a comfortable feeling, the memory-crystal gave him. A
comfortable chilling sensation, both warm and cold. Like an acrostic
sonnet to death.


                                  II

They were chained to a wall like dumb, dangerous beasts, though such
a precaution appeared pitifully unnecessary. At frequent intervals, a
contingent of Martian sycophants entered the narrow but high corridor
and took a varied number of human slaves through a huge oval door. A
door that had once been a gateway of learning into worlds devoted to
peace and progressive research. This great structure, now in ruins from
the Solar War between Mars and the rest of the System (except the world
of the enigmatic Jovians who had remained neutral) had once been known
as World Tech. Now it was a huge torture chamber made more hideous
because of its modern scientific equipment used for such savage,
barbaric research.

There was a terrible kind of silence between these episodes of the
opening of the door, except for the half-crazed breathing of resigned
humans. But when the oval door opened, screams came out. There were
dim, quick impressions of steam and odors. And of shadows that seemed
only partly human now, writhing on a wall.

Blobs of sweat rolled down the little man's red face. A thick
two-week's beard itched. Venard brooded over the three-dim
memory-sphere of Vale, when no Guards were close enough to detect his
furtive actions.

"About two more trips and we're going to be taken in there," choked
Larson. "Karl! Look at me an' listen now." His voice lowered, trembled.
"It's against my religious principles to take my own life. I'd rather
get mine fighting fair. If we fight, maybe we can make 'em blast us
with them H-guns."

"We've tried often enough," said Venard. "They're too handy with those
whips they call arms."

Venard looked sardonically into the three-dim photo-crystal at the
beautiful blond figure floating in it, shifting among multi-colored
clouds. Red lips smiled, and deep, impassioned eyes shone up at Venard
from the incredibly realistic opening that might almost have been a
doorway into another world.

"Karl," moaned Larson, wringing his hands like a frightened girl.
"Don't waste the last mortal seconds of your life moonin' over that
faithless female."

The oval door opened. A long cry fluttered out. It bounded down the
hall and through dark shadows and hollows. It was like a long nerve of
cloth torn in two. It was a tattered, terrible sound. Larson shook, his
jowls quivered, his eyes bulged. "Gods, Karl! What do they do to people
in there? It's like hell, ain't it? Just like Dante's hell!"

"Beautiful," answered Venard softly. "Lovely as freedom. Soft as a
night in Theophilus Crater."

"Huh? Oh, you mean her? She did you dirt. Why can't you forget her? She
walked out on you. She wanted to be a scientist, not Mrs. K. Venard.
Forget her! Listen, I'm gonna make 'em blast me with their H's. You
with me, Karl? Hey, she ain't worth a man's last thoughts."

The woman's face shifted, seemed to wink at Venard. His big, dirty hand
caressed the cloudy dream stuff of the image. His ragged fingernail
looked grotesque beside the cloudy loveliness.

"Ironic, isn't it, Kewpie Doll? She still lives, free and immune, I
guess. Only traitors live and know freedom. But she loved me anyway,
Kewpie Doll, even if she was only a passing fantasy. She was okay, just
too intelligent for love. An I.Q. of 200. That's a lot of quotient. I
said to her that night under the rim of Theophilus, 'Vale--this is it.
Take your choice. Either me or your internship in Solar Science City.
You either go into that science convent on Venus to wither away the
rest of your unnatural life, or you and I take a honeymoon right here.'
And, Kewpie Doll, you know what she said to me then?"

"How could I know?" slobbered Larson, eyes bugging at the oval door. It
was opening again. "I heard it only eleven hundred and fifty-eight and
one half times. Karl! I think they'll get us this trip. They--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Venard continued softly, as if unaware of the approaching Martie
guards. "She said, Karl, darling. I love science and what it means to
the System. All Venus is a wilderness, except for the odd under-sea
civilization of the Sea People, and the great domed University called
Solar Science City. Something's terribly wrong there--I don't know
what, but there's something. Solar Science City was established by the
best mentalities and resources of the entire System, for the good of
the System. But for almost a hundred years Solar Science City has been
an isolated, mysterious, incommunicative shell hiding something dark
and evil. Because of my I.Q. I've been given the privilege of going
there, if I desire. And I've decided to go. I'm going to find out why
S.S.C. has retreated into its own shell, and no longer serves mankind.
I'm going to find out what happens to all the great mentalities that go
there. When I find out, I'll be back, Karl. Back to you."

"A nice speech that, Kewpie Doll. But she never came back. No
one ever comes back if they go into S.S.C. as either a faculty or
student-member. If the war hadn't come along I was going to S.S.C. and
find out the score. I wonder what the mystery is, and what happened to
Vale. Two years, and not a word from her. She probably never even knew
the Martians attacked the System. Or, if she did, I'll bet she never
cared."

"Why worry now!" howled Larson, mopping at his head. "What can it
matter now?"

"It does matter, in a way," said Venard. "Because S.S.C. could have
saved the System. On our side, S.S.C. could have enabled us to defeat
the Martians. The fact that they never even considered helping us
proves that they are, themselves, somehow allied to decadence and evil.
And they're safe. Even the Marties don't have weapons strong enough to
break into S.S.C. And S.S.C. has weapons of science perfected in its
super laboratories that could have defeated the Martian warlords in a
few days. Wonder what is the secret of S.S.C.? The barbaric Martian
desert tribes say that it is now ruled by an alien god. Anyway, dear
Vale knows. But she won't tell."

"Alien god! Prepare," admonished Larson, "to meet your own."

"I'm ready." Venard clutched the memory-crystal tightly in his hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dim fluorescents high in the plastic ceiling of the lofty corridor
shed faint cold night. The purplish hue of the Martian's body sacks
reflected the light like radioactive matter. Stocked eyes wavered,
yellowish pale, iridescent horrors.

Venard turned. His chain rattled gently, without malice. He looked with
studied insolence at the writhing-eyed Martian Guard who was coming
toward him. Now it was removing the chain from the galling iron band
about his waist. Another was doing the same with Larson. Guards stood
at a slight distance with H-guns waiting to be drawn. Beneath his
sour-smelling clothes, Venard grasped the memory-crystal.

The tale behind the crystals flashed quickly through his mind; because
it was rather a sorrowfully lovely tale, and the moment could use a
touch of alien beauty. In the pre-Solar Federation era, colorful
sea-women of Venus, members of that semi-human and empirically
intelligent race, were said to have carried the crystals while love
remained true, but always ready to utilize the destructive power of
the crystal for suicide when the lover whose face was captured in the
cumulus depths of the sphere proved faithless.

Long before the Solar War the Venusians, with the ancient custom
only legend, had made the memory-crystals and sold them to a few
hardy tourists for stupendous amounts of Solar credits. It had even
been said that much of the vital life stuff of the one portrayed was
imprisoned in the crystalline gadget. But horrified by the slaughter
and barbarisms of the approaching war, the opaque Venusians had
retreated to their under-sea cities and had remained hidden, far
removed from war's madness. Venard didn't blame them in a way, any
more than he blamed the Jovians who had remained neutral. The Venusian
Sea People were a timid, shy, highly aesthetic species, with a strange
kind of non-physical, non-mechanical science--more of a philosophical,
empirical mental science such as was embodied in the evolving of the
memory-crystals.

The explosive power of the spheres wasn't anything tremendous; but this
one could certainly wreck this particular part of Concentration Camp 7.

Venard watched the chains sliding through the Marto-alloy bands. He saw
the ragged, hunched shapes of broken men and women sagging in horror
and weakness as they were herded toward the oval door. And the door
was opening again, maybe for the last time. A red, roaring flame was
visible in there; a long quavering cry ripped through.

Venard stood back against the cold wall, raised the memory-crystal. He
thought fleetingly that the figure in the sphere was so life-like that
to destroy it was like murder. But Venard didn't care about murdering
now. Not even murdering Vale's memory. Even memories were born to die.

"Earthmen!" he yelled suddenly, his voice cracking sharply against
dulled minds like a whip-lash. Glazed eyes shifted. Bowed backs moved
apathetically. A few bony hands pawed the air. "We'll die like men!"
yelled Venard. He flourished the memory-crystal.

The Marties fell away. Their eye stalks writhed in abysmal fear. The
dejected mass of filthy human wrecks lifted sunken faces, stared. It
seemed that their minds were too dulled by shock and fear to even
comprehend the meaning of a quick, clean death.

"Earthmen!" Venard's voice lashed out again. How long would it take the
fanatical Marties to plunge at him in suicidal fervor? Not long. "Let's
sing," he said it suddenly, on a mad impulse. These creatures must die
as men. "The Terran Anthem hasn't been sung for a long time. Sing!"

There was magnetic driving power in his words. The Marties were
trembling with indecision. Appendages were creeping toward H-guns.
Venard made a threatening gesture with the memory-crystal. And the
appendages stopped creeping--for a little while.

"The Terran Anthem!" yelled Venard again. There was a reckless,
sardonic smile on his face that Larson had never expected to see again.
"We'll sing ourselves to sleep. These Martie scum think our courage is
gone, our spirits broken. SING!"

It was a magnificent miracle. Dull eyes slowly rose up through many
levels of fear and defeat and shock. Bent bodies straightened beneath
dirt-caked rags. Bearded faces of men and haggard faces of women glowed
with surging inner fires, newly kindled. Hands and arms raised. Voices
joined in the Terran Anthem. The song the Martians hated with all the
power of their cold minds to hate. Bony arms raised, quivering with
weakness, but not anymore with fear. And cracked voices that grew
stronger with each surging note, joined in a last outburst of defiance.

    Earth, Earth is mine.
    No Gods destroy its soft green wine
    Of verdant hills and sun-warmed summertime.
    Earthmen we! Soldiers of the azure sea!

Pioneers had sung it when colonization of bitter worlds was only
beginning. In the unending swamps of Venus, its turbulent strains had
shattered the dreary monotony of loneliness. Over the deserts of Mars
and the iceflows of Saturn the song had spelled unity of purpose,
defiance of seemingly insurmountable barriers. Many an Earthman had
died in the alien vapors of far places with its blood-stirring rhythm
on his lips.

Unashamed tears cut the grime of Larson's face as he stood there on
wide spread, stubby legs. But Venard laughed with animal joy and
flourished the memory-sphere. A beautiful woman still laughed from
its crystalline depths, smiled without care as though she were again
meeting Venard in the synthetic spring gardens of Theophilus Crater.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Martians shivered with indecision. They were fanatical, though;
only a few more seconds would be needed to send them in an exulting
suicidal charge. But louder the slaves sang.

    Earth! Earth we know.
    Immortal world where Solar dreamers go
    To sleep among ice-peaks and sunlit snow.
    Earthman I! Wanderer of space and sky.

The chorus was a swelling, deafening thunder of defiance in the
towering expanse of corridor. Alarms clanged confusion in the
background. Doors opened on the many tiers above Venard and Larson.
Glaring lights swept frantically in sporadic circles. Marties appeared
in hundreds of openings with H-guns poised, nervously, uncertainly;
anxiety mucous flowed from pulsing pores.

"Sing!" laughed Venard wildly. He didn't feel quite sane, and he didn't
care. "Earth isn't dead. Not while you can still sing, you're not dead,
and your song will live forever!"

His wild laughter rang carelessly and madly up the towering heights of
the partly-repaired corridor, down the lengths of it both ways, through
the open oval door beyond which torture flames still glittered and
shadowed, dehumanized bodies curled.

A thunderous moan spread up and outward. Chains clanged as awakened
hope and honor and returning sense of dignity burned again in withered
hearts. Then a number of H-guns burst suddenly into spontaneous,
nervous slaughter.

"Sing!" Venard heard his voice echoing for the last time. He drew back
the arm which held the memory-crystal. A beam of crackling power burned
his side. Seared flesh was nausea in his face. He dodged, dancing in
his gauntness and flapping rags like a grotesque clown.

    On Earth, of Earth we die!
    Her sweet, enchanted winds our requiem cry.
    For our lost love her gentle south winds sigh.
    Earthmen we--

Suddenly, Larson leaped at the nearest Martian. He whipped to one side
as an H-gun hurtled to the plastic mesh of the floor. He dived for
it. But power rays crackled around him, glanced off walls and smoked
through trembling layers of human flesh.

Larson sank slowly to his knees. His lips, thick with awed pain,
mumbled heavily, "Give me time to pray." He was looking in startled
surprise and horror at the blackened stub where his left hand had been.
It happened so fast. A second ago he had a left hand. Now he had no
left hand. But that would be so unimportant in a little while. The
H-gun lay untouched. Screams rose from writhing forms.

"Throw the damned bomb," yelled Larson weakly. "And let me finish a
prayer."

Venard twisted, a slim and gyrating target for thirsting rays. The
entire corridor was a carnal room. A streak of flame seared his chest.
He cried out, "No time for prayers now. Go on down to hell, Kewpie
Doll. At least it's better than the one the Marties had planned for us."

Then he murmured, "Goodbye, Vale, you served a good purpose after all."
He hurled the coruscating sphere squarely against the wall beside the
oval door. With the same movement his body fell sidewise in a dive to
the floor where he was squeezing himself instinctively up against the
wall as the concussion shook his brain into smothering dusty greyness.


                                  III

He decided that he was dying and that as he died he dreamed. He felt
no pain. Only triumphant gladness. They had died like men. What did it
matter that the story of the Zharkon's double-brain injury was only a
glorious dream? What was the difference if the Martians continued to
rule the system for a million years?

It made no difference. The song these ragged, filthy slaves had sung
in a Concentration camp would be a symphonic background for the final
chaotic death-pangs of the Martian culture. The songs of Earth,
somehow, had always possessed a kind of deathless quality.

But what an odd dream for a dying mind! He was floating down a dark,
dripping hall. Strange lights glowed. Something moved under him,
something very solid and real for a dream or for death.

A far-away voice said very softly against his ear, "Sleep, my friend.
Rest. Sleep deeply and build up your strength. Get ready for a
desperate journey."

And then, dropping into a velvet abyss, he really did sleep. Sometime
later, Karl Venard awoke. And really knew he still suffered among the
living when he heard a familiarly whining voice shouting: "I been
cheated! I prayed--but them stalagmites look awful suspicious to me.
You ain't foolin' me, La Crue! I'm in hell!" Larson was evidently very
much alive.

Another familiar, but almost forgotten voice answered, "You're raising
plenty of it, that's certain."

Venard could hardly believe it. La Crue, alive! The name snapped
Venard's consciousness on full like a sudden bright flame. He sat
up on a narrow bed. He was in a dry, comfortable spot surrounded by
the mores of civilization, though in a chaotic rapidly constructed
state. But some distance along a rough, natural underground cavern of
vaulted proportions, calcareous water dripped monotonously. From the
phosphorescent rock strata he realized he was deeply underground. A
deeply buried natural cavern with damp recesses that justified Larson's
violent waking reaction.

And La Crue, alive. La Crue had been the physician aboard the war
ship _Valeron_, an old friend from pre-war Academy days. How many
others of the Terran Guards were alive who, logically, should be dead?
Venard raised up onto his elbows, watched La Crue leave Larson's side
and come toward him. He looked ghost-like. Pallid from months spent
underground. But his lean body was healthy and vital enough otherwise.
His square jaw was smoothly shaven. He grinned broadly at Venard.

"How you feeling, Karl?" He sat down on a flat rock. Below them,
Venard could hear an underground river churning. He answered, "La
Crue--you're--all three of us are supposed to be dead."

La Crue smiled wryly. "Not every Guardsman who fought that last battle
over the Polar Palaces of Mars was killed. I'd say about a thousand
escaped to the Martian Underground. Some of them, including myself,
were transferred here by Underground space ships."

"That many?" Venard sat up, shutting his eyes a moment against
dizziness. "Must have a bigger Underground than I thought."

"Comparatively few, but it allows us greater freedom of movement,
greater capacity for cooperative effort. Most of the Martian commoners
fell for the Zharkonistic program though." La Crue, who had been a
psycho-medic in the guards, knew what he was talking about. "They
were ripe for a crackpot philosophy like Zharkon provided. Too much
specialization and not enough varied interests for individuals.
Resultant mass hysteria. The old Zharkonian Royalists were just waiting
in exile for such a break to move in. They've always resented the
Martian revolution which established representative government on Mars.
Anyway, there's another strong subversive Underground right here on
Earth now, as well as on Mars and several other planets. We have cooked
up a rather mad plan, or rather an old friend of yours has cooked it
up. He won't even trust me with the details. He says only you and
Kewpie Doll can carry it through."

"Let's get to that later," said Venard impatiently. "I want to know how
Larson and I got out of that Concentration Camp explosion alive? Or did
we?"

"The explosion itself wasn't sufficiently powerful to kill everyone,
though it did a lot of damage. Partly luck, of course, that you
survived. You would have been crushed when the structure crumbled after
the explosion, if it hadn't been for this old friend of yours who
dragged you two not only to safety, but to an escape tunnel and here
to the Underground; with help of course. There were some of us there to
meet him."

"Who is this old friend?" said Venard dutifully.

"This old friend, Karl, was one of the Martie Guards. He didn't know
you had the memory-crystal and you darn near blew him to pieces, too."

"One of the Martie Guards!" exclaimed Venard. "That's madness. You
mean--?"

"That's right, Karl. You see this Underground of ours--this particular
post, that is--is located pretty close to Concentration Camp 7. We've
been digging an escape tunnel into Camp 7. This Martie was supposed to
work with us. At a specified time, he was supposed to lead as many of
the hostages as possible into this escape tunnel. But you beat us to it
with the memory-sphere. The chaos helped the escape."

"But this old friend," persisted Venard. "Are you sure he's my old
friend?"

"Yeah," grinned La Crue, "this old friend claims you're the only man
living, Karl, who ever beat him ten consecutive games of sun-spot draw
and--"

"Jhongan!" cried Venard. "Jhongan, that leathery monstrosity. That
animated sponge. That--_he_ was one of those lousy guards? Why--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Venard turned, and there was the Martian, his skin iridescent in the
cold light. "Hello, you old space-eater," he said in that peculiar,
slurred accent.

An entanglement of arms and tentacles to which Larson added his own
scrawny arms. For a moment of joyous reunion it might have been the
good old days when Jhongan and other Marties had been attending Terran
Academy of Interplanetary Law. That had been a cultural policy, to
exchange students in the various world academies.

"You were one of those Guards, and you got us out of that torture
chamber?"

The Martie inclined his body sac in a nod. Few could converse with a
Martie; it required a special skill. "I was planning it differently,
as La Crue said. But it worked out just as well. La Crue has kept your
consciousness submerged for three days. To build up strength. La Crue
has also mentioned a plan. Not because I know you love flattery, I
tell you that you and Larson are the only ones for this job." Jhongan
leaned forward and added: "It is possible, Karl, almost overnight, to
save the Solar System and return to a peaceful, progressive Federation."

       *       *       *       *       *

Venard stared and Larson's little eyes became bright beads. Then Venard
decided to take it easy, get the whole thing gradually. He was still in
an unstable physical condition and too much of Jhongan's abruptness all
at once might tip the scale back.

He rubbed his jaw. His eyes went again round the depressing reaches of
the big Underground living quarters, or that particular part of it. Two
women and a small ragged boy entered carrying crude cooking equipment.
They smiled, and went through a small opening.

Larson mumbled, "I'd swear that girl was Glora Karstedt who just went
through there." He hobbled across the shadowed cavern and disappeared
after the woman, yelling "Hey! Hey, Glora. It's me, Kewpie Doll Larson.
Remember--"

Jhongan said, "Not even a Solar War could change that guy."

La Crue shook his head slowly. "Wish all neurotics in the Undergrounds
were as rational as old Kewpie Doll. We're having lots of psycho
troubles down here in our Underground."

Jhongan let his heavy torso sink down between his four legs so that
he now resembled a huge crab, while La Crue went on. He could wait.
He was patient. He only hoped they would accept it when he presented
the seemingly insane plan. La Crue explained, "Too much pressure down
here. It's too unnatural an environment. No real hope either, so far,
to relieve it. The complete abnormality of never getting a glimpse
of the green hills of Earth, you know. They're developing what I
call subterranean psychosis. A strange combination of claustro- and
taphobia."

The psycho-medic looked pointedly at Jhongan. "And we've even had
several outbreaks of planetary prejudice. Jhongan here looks just like
any other Martie to an unintegrated mind. He's been physically attacked
several times and almost killed since coming here from Mars a week ago.
Special Underground passenger lines have been set up."

Venard stood up, stretched. "Trivia," he said finally. "That's what is
driving all the Underground dwellers mad. False hope. Why not preach
resignation?"

"After that speech you gave which stirred those people to sing the
Terran Anthem, that is an obviously unrealistic statement on your
part," said La Crue.

"We do have a chance," said Jhongan. "More than just a chance. I'll
explain whenever you two pedantics get ready to listen."

"Where there's life, there's hope, eh?" said Venard sardonically. "That
could also apply to a paramecium."

"There's more to this hope than you can ever guess," said Jhongan.
"Listen, old friend. The rumor's true."

Venard stared, sagged. "You mean about Zharkon?"

"Yes," La Crue's black eyes shone. "Zharkon the Third's corto-brain
half has been irreparably injured. The greatest conquering army in
Solar History is temporarily leaderless."

Venard almost fell, caught himself by grasping La Crue's shoulder.
"Shhhhh," he whispered. "Let me sleep."

"It's no dream," assured La Crue, while Jhongan gloated. "And Jhongan
has a plan concerning the Zharkon. He won't tell me, or anyone else."

"I'll not even tell you, Venard," said Jhongan, "why you are to do what
you are to do. If you are taken prisoner, they might put a thought
recorder on you and find out the truth. That must not happen at any
cost. The Solar System's future is at stake."

"If the Zharkon's brain is really injured, irreparably, why worry any
more?" asked Venard.

"Because a new double-brain is developing in the breeding vats, and
will soon be able to take office. Listen, old friend. The rumor's true
because I was one of the subversives who planted the electron pellet
beneath the Zharkon's throne. My five years of exemplary service to the
Zharkonites was repaid. If the Zharkon dies, there may be temporary
disorganization of the Zharkonistic government machine. During that
brief upheaval, we might just possibly be able to organize resistance
against the Martian hordes, although I don't know where we could find
sufficient weapons, ships, or even capable fighting men. Do you?"

"No," said Venard. "No."

"In the Zharkonian breeding room a new double-brain is being carefully
incubated. The High Priests of Zharkon can easily transfer present
worship from the dying old Zharkon to the new and very embryonic
Zharkon even though it is under age. But the High Priests aren't sure
that during that period of transition, the Allied Worlds of Earth,
Ganymede, Callisto, Mercury, Neptune and the Asterites, may not be able
to manage some kind of devastating revolt. Though that's too much of a
gamble for us. You see, if my plan succeeds, it's absolutely certain
that practically overnight Mars will become a lover of peace, and the
System will return to a Democratic Federation."

"What is the plan?" said Venard impatiently. "Don't tell me you've
found a magic wand somewhere?"

"It isn't really my plan," said Jhongan. "It's _their_ plan--the High
Priests of Zharkon. They're going to Venus. They're going to attempt an
invasion of Solar Science City."

       *       *       *       *       *

Venard felt a little lost. His brain spun chaotically. "The Martians
can't invade S.S.C. Even their science isn't big enough to crack open
those force fields around S.S.C. That's the greatest fortress ever
built in the System. And according to the original laws concerning
S.S.C., no member or members of an aggressor planet can gain legal
entry into S.S.C. for any reason. So what's the matter with the High
Priests?"

"Nothing, Karl. They're going to try, and maybe they do have some
secret method worked out. Whatever benefits to the System are available
in S.S.C, those Martians are absolutely not entitled to them. The High
Priests of Zharkon will have to force their way into S.S.C."

"Okay," shrugged Venard, "they can't. That settles that. Why do they
want to get into--" He straightened, his eyes narrowed. "I get it.
They want into the hetero-transplant wards. They want to replace the
brain of the injured Zharkon with the one that's preserved in the body
bank in S.S.C. Then no one will ever know that their Zharkon was ever
injured. That's clever--but they can't do it. Don't they know that?"

"They're desperate," said Jhongan. "That Zharkon double-brain in the
S.S.C. body bank has been there for three hundred years. It's perfectly
preserved and has never been injured. It was granted to S.S.C. by the
Martian Democratic Presidium for research purposes."

"Then you want Larson and me to prevent them from getting the brain, or
warn S.S.C. that the Martians are going to try to get it?"

"No," said Jhongan softly. "I hope you believe me. You see, your
assignment is to help the High Priests get that brain out of S.S.C.
Whatever the cost, that brain transplantation must be a success."

Venard said nothing. Through his stunned brain suspicion was creeping
like a cloying disgusting fog. Maybe Jhongan was a counter-spy. And
yet, he knew that couldn't be.

"I wish I could explain why," said Jhongan. "But, as I've said, if the
Martians capture you and clamp a thought recorder on you, they'll know
the truth and will not make the transplantation." Jhongan paused. His
stalked eyes snaked down, probed deeply into Venard's. "Believe me,
old friend," he said with a terrible passion. "This is the great test
of the mutual trust our worlds held with each other before the war.
Believe me, old friend. Say you believe me and will do this thing?"

Venard hesitated only an instant, then said slowly. "I believe you,
Jhongan. We'll do it. But how?"

Jhongan's body sac sunk inward with a sigh of intense relief. "You and
Larson have an advantage. Earth isn't an aggressor nation and therefore
has legal right to enter S.S.C.--if there is some personal reason for
doing so. Larson has that reason. If any person has missing body parts,
he has the privilege of requesting entry into S.S.C. to replace that
missing part."

"You mean, Larson," said Venard. "His missing left hand would give him
entry not only into S.S.C. but directly into the hetero-transplant
wards."

Jhongan bobbed his body sac. "He can probably get into S.S.C. if that
sorrowful institution has retained even that much of its original
purpose. After that, his duty will be to get the double-brain somehow,
and get it outside S.S.C. The High Priests of Zharkon will be outside
trying to get in, if Larson times it right. He can give them the brain.
Whether they'll let him live or not as a reward, I don't know. The
sacrifice will be worth it, to a Guardsman. The High Priests will take
that brain to Mars and transfer it to the dying Zharkon's brain case.
If that is done, I assure you, peace throughout the Solar System will
be only a matter of hours. But you and Larson will have to move fast. I
know that the High Priests are probably heading for Venus right now."

"Sounds incredible," said Venard. "But, Jhongan, I believe you. We'll
do it, of course. But I wish I knew why."

Jhongan said, "This is a point to regard--the reason is quite simple.
You could figure it out, Venard, if you tried hard enough. Therefore,
don't even try to evolve an answer. If you're captured by the Martians,
you must know nothing."

"But if that's the case," said Venard suddenly, "then you--"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Martian trembled violently. A loud commotion suddenly spilled
through the cave opening. Two men and a woman were leaping toward them.
One wore a tattered Guardsman's uniform. The other man and woman were
dressed in drab civvies.

"They're psychos who've escaped from the sanitarium," yelled La Crue.
"They're Martophobes; they're after Jhongan! Stop 'em."

The mad Guardsman had a long alloy knife which Guardsmen formerly
carried more for uniform decoration than for utilitarian purposes. He
raised it as he leaped at Jhongan. The screaming woman and shouting
man were also headed for Jhongan with clutching hands. The man's eyes
gleamed insanely. The woman screeched, "Martie dog! Dirty, filthy
Martie devil!"

Before either Venard or La Crue could intercept the man with the knife,
he had thrown himself upon Jhongan's unresisting body. With screaming
nerves, Venard saw the knife rise and fall again and again, savagely.
He saw the green life juices spurt like a monstrous fountain. He heard
himself swearing madly as he pulled the death-drenched Guardsman off
Jhongan's twitching body, felt his fists crunch and saw the psycho
topple away, his face crushed in.

Venard and La Crue were leaning over Jhongan's punctured body
sack. "He's dying," said La Crue hoarsely. "They die fast in Earth
atmosphere. There's nothing anyone can do."

A tentacle reached up slowly, wrapped itself around Venard's hand.
Venard heard the funny slurred tones of the Martie say in a dying
whisper, "You promised. Don't fail. Promise you won't fail, Karl, old
friend?"

"Yes," Venard gripped the tentacle. It went lax, plopped lifelessly
down onto the cold damp stone.

"That's his answer," said Venard as he straightened wearily but with a
stony resolution of face.

"Answer?" said La Crue. "To what?"

"I was going to ask him what would happen if he were captured by
Martians. He knows the reason for this plan of helping transplant the
Zharkon's brain. He answered that." He looked down at Jhongan. "He
could have gotten away. He let the psycho kill him. Perhaps it was
better that way. It saved him from having to kill himself."

La Crue, after a long silent moment, said, "How could anyone have
planetary prejudice when a Martie is capable of such magnificent
heroism for all civilized species?"

"They won't, someday," assured Venard, his jaw tense. "Someday, every
species in the system will be judged only by their individual worth
rather than by their physical appearance--thanks to the complete
unselfishness of men like Jhongan."

"Anyway," said La Crue, "we know now that Jhongan's plan must be sound,
if he believed in it so completely."

"Yes," said Venard, "we know now." He saw Larson stagger a little as he
emerged from a tunnel mouth into the cavern with a half-emptied plastic
bottle of _stihn_ in one hand. Hanging on the little man's other arm
was a rather shapely girl. She was looking at Larson with curiosity
more than interest.

When Larson saw Jhongan, dead, the bottle of _stihn_ bounced on the
stone floor. The girl whirled away from him, uttering a sharp cry of
protest that died as she saw Larson's violent reaction.

Then he came up close to Venard, cold sober now, and waited. He was
ready now, ready for anything.

Abruptly, Venard said, "We're going to Venus. Tonight. Come on!"

"Okay, just a minute while I--what? Venus? Why?" Larson stared. His
little eyes shifted to Jhongan. "About that plan of his, huh? I'm
ready. Let's go."

Venard told him everything he knew, with intermittent injections from
La Crue.

"It's about as clear as that Venusian mud's gonna be," said Larson.

"You need a left hand. That'll get us inside S.S.C. or rather get
you inside. We hope. A few have taken advantage of their body bank
facilities; but S.S.C. doesn't encourage it. There are stories of
horror coming out of S.S.C. And you know the one I was telling you
about the concept of an alien God."

"Yeah," breathed Larson. "That alien god. I don't like that."

La Crue cut in, "A small Scouter's ready to blast off from a
subterranean cradle near here. The Underground has several of them
cradled at strategic points for emergencies."

"Let's go, Kewpie Doll," snapped Venard. "And don't try to guess why.
Although in your case, I can't see the danger."

"Goodbye," said La Crue as a Guard appeared to lead them through secret
tunnels to their waiting Scouter. "And good luck...."


                                  IV

There are no adventures in space. Either a space-flight is safe
monotony, or quick death. But as the two Guardsmen approached the vast
mysterious dome of S.S.C. somewhere in the Mesozoic nightmare, the
vaporous, steaming, endlessly stretching rain-forest of Venus, they
stumbled with wracking weariness. Reptile-infested swamps and steaming
seas, foul-smelling, rotten--it was an incredibly perilous planet.

For five hours they had burned their way through giant flora and fauna
and sweat, H-guns hot with almost steady usage. And then Venard finally
parted some phosphorescent, glowing lichen and there the gigantic dome
rose up and up and lost itself in thick mist. But between them and
their goal was a hellish nightmare barrier, spilling stinking muck into
a placidly steaming sea.

Larson mopped at mud and sweat-slimed face, stared in fearful awe.
Venard swore. They were blocked by a moat, a green, oozing mud-river,
flowing oilily. From out of it, projected huge spines, ribs, and warts
covering towering, brilliant, multi-colored mounds--that _moved_! Scaly
mountains of shifting, radioactive lime. "Giant mollusc bed!" gasped
Venard. Low tide now, but during high tide the sea on their right would
back up this far. But high tide was hours distant.

There were thousands of the molluscs, every size, shape and color.
Venard's head went quickly to either side. "It goes out of sight both
ways, Kewpie Doll. Into the sea and into the swamp. Trapped!"

Larson squirmed, muttering, "Them bivalves are flesh-eaters. Look!"

A _gruoon_, a flying reptile, had started a dive across the thick air
toward the fungus-covered dome of S.S.C. A giant bivalve, at least
fifty meters wide, snapped open. Its lifting shell-half dripped an
avalanche of tendrils and muddy slime. A pliable snout whipped upwards.
On its end, a formless pliant mouth full of row after row of rasp-like
teeth, closed on the _gruoon_, sucked it into the pallid grey pulsating
interior of the bivalve. Its shells closed with slow certainty on the
writhing, screaming _gruoon_.

"We can't make that trek on foot, Kewpie Doll. Got to get back to the
ship. We landed on the wrong side. Got to rush things though, and get
the Zharkon's brain before the Marties try illegal entry and ruin
everything. Come on. I'll get you inside S.S.C., don't worry."

"I'll worry either way--hey, listen!" He froze. His eyes rolled up and
followed the sound droning invisibly above the impenetrable envelope of
mist--the long _hissshowwww_ of a decelerating Martian war-ship.

"That's the boys," growled Venard darkly. His jaw knotted. "Not time to
go back to the ship. Probably five hours--if we made it at all." His
eyes studied the hundred meter-wide barrier of quivering, snapping,
hungry molluscs. "I wonder," he murmured, "if we could do it?"

But Larson, moaning and trembling, was already waist-deep in the
iridescent slime. Venard grinned and followed jerkily. "We'll try
to crawl from one to the other," he managed to say. "So keep your
remaining hand free. Don't draw your blaster unless you have to."

Followed by Larson, now behind him, Venard started climbing gingerly up
the jagged, weirdly-glowing mollusc. Larson puffed painfully, swearing.
They were half way across the shell before it shifted. They crouched
down, hanging on desperately. Around them, shells snapped open and shut
hungrily. Mouthed probosci were snaking about, dragging things out of
the air.

"If we can stay on these things," gasped Venard. "Haven't seen any of
them interested in each other. This baby has a keen sense of taste and
smell; not much sense of touch, though."

Their shell suddenly rocked violently. The two Guardsmen squeezed
themselves between two roughly porous spines for support, drew their
blasters. The top half of the bivalve was slowly lifting.

They clung precariously by friction alone while the shell shook,
rose higher and higher. It shifted, and fell so that its hinge was
uppermost. Larson yelped, slipped, almost fell within reach of the
pulsing pink-tissued maw. His face was dead white.

The gigantic pinkish foot of the mollusc was oozing out and out, away
from them toward the opposite embankment. It stopped almost across the
bed; and when it withdrew toward them, in short contracting jerks, it
left behind, cemented against the shell of another mollusc, a long
strand of fleshy cable as big around as Larson's arm.

The mussel's foot contained a narrow groove ending at a gland which
exuded a sticky substance, much like liquid glue. This hardened almost
instantly when exposed to air. Their shell had placed this foot against
the other mollusc, and the sticky material was forced along the groove,
touched the other mollusc, adhered and hardened. Then by slowly drawing
back the foot, their own shell had, with astounding speed, spun a
strong cable almost across the moat.

"An anchor," shuddered Larson. "It's put out an anchor just like a
ship."

"That cable's more than just an anchor, Kewpie Doll. Evolution's given
him such a weak foot compared to its body weight; it has to throw out a
cable and drag itself from one place to another."

The cable was tightening. The pitted shell to which they miraculously
clung began to shift slightly as the cable stretched taunt. "This is
too lucky a break," groaned Larson. "Getting a free ride across like
this. There's a catch to it, somewhere. Venus ain't operatin' no free
ferry service."

"And that's the catch!" Venard pointed. "We fastened to that other
mollusc. Instead of us moving, we're pulling that other oyster out of
its bed!"

Their living anchor base lifted upward slowly with a long sucking
sound. Their own mollusc wasn't making enough headway even to pull
himself up over other shells. Its anchor base was too weak. But not
passive. It reacted violently.

"Watch out!" screamed Larson, shrinking.

The mollusc to which the cable was fastened suddenly opened its giant
shells, snapped them shut with a thunderous crack. The effect was to
send its great weight in a flying jump to the right about fifteen
meters. The cable parted with a sighing whine, whipped out, round and
back in a deadly arc. Larson screamed again. Only once. The cable
swept him away into the mud. Multicolored, squid-like faces sprouting
thousands of powerful filaments, writhed hungrily toward him as he
struggled briefly.

A choking, helpless horror went through Venard as he saw the bivalve
snap open, and then, a snaking proboscis with the filamented mouth whip
out and close on Larson's twisting body to jerk him down with lightning
swiftness into that pulsating abyss of hungry flesh.

It had happened awfully fast to the toughest little guy in the System.

       *       *       *       *       *

Too fast for Venard even to try against invincible odds to avert his
death. Eaten alive by a clam. He tried to think of things that would
compensate as the mollusc spun another cable. He concentrated his eyes
and thought on the taut flesh cable the bivalve had spun, the one
remaining link with S.S.C. and the fulfillment of Jhongan's unknown
plan. First Jhongan, then the Kewpie Doll.... He had to keep on to
make their sacrifice seem worth while. Theirs and billions of others
throughout the System.

The mollusc had reached the end of the cable. Its unpredictable nerve
centers had decided, however, to settle down right there. Its migration
was over, maybe for years. And Venard was still about fifty feet from
the other side of the moat.

Acting on impulse, Venard hooked his arms over the cable and leaped
toward the bank. He slid wildly, with little friction, along the new
slickness of the cable strands, plopped into the mud. He crawled
frantically up onto the thick vegetation just as a univalvular mouth
missed him by inches, tried again. He burned it and the charred snout
curled away.

He was across, lying against the mossy slimy uprising shell of S.S.C.
But so what? He had two hands. Larson, their entry ticket, was gone. He
steeled himself, didn't let himself think about it anymore. He brought
the H-gun on down in a quick savage gesture across his left wrist....

He didn't lose consciousness. It was just a quick, jabbing, burning
agony. He looked at the charred stub--and then quickly swallowed five
para-pills. They calmed him, enabled him to climb to his feet and
follow the elevated ramp until he came to the ingress to the scanning
chamber.

He stood inside, before the wall, his legality being checked. The
chromoplex room was barren except for the telescreen and the opening of
the tubecar that would plunge him through the magnetized vacuum tube
into the heart of S.S.C.--and to what?

Tendrils of a vague fear oozed insidiously into his mind. He couldn't
shake free from a superstitious sensing of evil hidden danger. He heard
the faint murmuring of concealed photo-electric mechanisms and relays.
He was being thoroughly scanned.

A milky opalescense filled the screen, and coalesced; a misty outline
solidified, looked stoically at Venard. Recognition shocked the
Guardsman. It was Bronlen, greatest Solar physicist Terra had ever
produced. Bronlen had been summoned to S.S.C. ten years ago to become
its Director. Consequently, like all who came here, he had dropped out
of all sight and sound. But how he had changed! Only a few among the
allied worlds had ever come to S.S.C. for a long time now, even for
such a vitally needed thing as a body part transplantation. S.S.C. had
become a place of mystery and strange fear. A place shunned and hated.

The austere, smoothly-aged face seemed, somehow, not human. Unalive,
a dull conscienceless face that shouldn't be Bronlen at all. The
bloodless lips parted.

"You may enter, barbarian. You are entitled to have your left hand
replaced, thought it's too bad you decided to annoy us, and didn't
resign yourself to your barbaric fate of one-handedness like most other
barbarians of the System have wisely decided to do. However, upon
completion of the transplantation, you will be transported immediately
and directly back out of S.S.C. Now the tubecar will take you directly
to the hetero-transplant ward."

The screen faded and Venard, boiling with inner rage and hatred,
entered the tubecar. Then, desperate helplessness as he felt the
tingling numbness settling over his brain. Concealed hypnotic
frequencies. They were blanking him out!


                                   V

Sometime later he was violently awakened by hands shaking him.
"Karl!... Karl!" There was a terrible urgency in the low, rich
voice. But this was mad dreaming! He'd never really expected to hear
this voice again. Subconsciously, buried deep down, he had perhaps
entertained the idea that he might see her again, but--

"Karl, hurry and wake up, for the love of Heaven! They're coming back.
I've got to explain before they get here!"

Venard opened his eyes, sat bolt upright on a kind of operating table.
It was her all right. Vale. She was bending over him. Strangely, she
didn't seem to have changed much. She appeared older, a little, with
some of the blue fire gone from her eyes. "Hello, Vale," he finally
managed to say rather thickly. He didn't want to sound that way. He
wanted to sound cynical, tough. He didn't at all.

In her drab grey interne's robe and cap she stood trembling above him,
eyes wild with fear. She shoved his H-gun at him. "I don't know why you
came here, but take this gun. You'll need it. I know you didn't come
here just for another hand."

Wordlessly, he took the gun, hid it under his tunic. He flexed
his--yes, they had transplanted the hand. He clenched his new fist on
the H-gun. The whole transplantation process probably hadn't taken
more than an hour. Incredibly advanced healing acceleration--amazing
bio-chemical and surgical science. Just an example of the knowledge
held imprisoned inside S.S.C. Knowledge that should have been given out
to the Federation.

"Vale. You don't seem the same. Why didn't you come back? You promised."

Her eyes shone wetly, and her full lips quivered. "Oh, how I wanted to
come back. I tried. But it completely ended my free agency of will and
mind." Then her voice became harsh and urgent.

He swung around as she said tautly, "No time for reminiscence. I know
you. You're here for some desperate, mad reason or other. But it won't
go here, Karl. S.S.C. is completely under its power. You haven't a
chance, nothing human has a chance against it. That's why I never even
tried to get word to you at first, while I still had a chance. I knew
that if you came here to help me, it would only get you too. None of us
here can do anything now, or ever. We're all mindless slaves."

"Except you," commented Venard sarcastically. "I.Q. Saunders. But then,
you always did have a mind of your own."

Her eyes darted wildly down toward the paneled door of the operating
room. "That puzzles me, Karl. My full mental faculties returned to me
seven days ago, Earth time. It was a flash of white flame. And it's
hold over me dropped away. But it's influence is coming back, creeping
in again. Oh, it's horrible, horrible! Karl, you've got to--"

Venard felt a chill of alien cold. Seven days ago, Earth time. "The
memory-crystal," he whispered. "That's the night I smashed the Venusian
memory-crystal."

"Don't talk mystical nonsense," she said frenziedly. "When they come to
send you out of S.S.C., don't try any mad scheme. Just go, and please
say or do nothing. Just leave S.S.C. without question. Please Karl."

He liked to hear that kind of talk, especially from Vale. He stood up;
he was a little weak. "I came here to get that preserved Zharkonian
brain from the body banks. I'm going to give it to the Martians and
they're going to replace the present Zharkonian ruler's injured brain
with it. You can believe anything, even that I'm a spy working for the
Marties, if you want to. Jhongan said--"

Vale interrupted. "That's the brain we have preserved here. That of the
first Zharkon. An experiment in bio-chemistry. They actually succeeded
in developing a synthetic brain." Her lips twisted thoughtfully. "Yes,
I can see Jhongan's reasons. Ingenious, and it probably would work,
but--listen!"

She gripped his shoulders. The touch did things to Venard's nervous
system. Forgotten things. "But it's useless," she said, "for you to try
such a scheme here, Karl. The Martians, for all their military might,
are just insignificant pawns."

Venard exclaimed, "Martians--just pawns! You haven't been around
lately. Those babies have taken over everything, and they intend to
keep it. This other menace ... don't be so mysteriously evasive, Vale.
Who, or what, is this _it_? Don't tell me the Martie desert tribes'
rumors about an alien god controlling S.S.C. is authentic!"

She tried to answer, but she swayed, shut her eyes, and clenched
small white fists. Her body twitched violently, blood drained from
her face. He shot an arm about her waist, but she was stiff, cold and
unyielding. And this was too abnormal. Her head fell back over his arm.
Then she opened her eyes slowly. They were glazing, dulling, as though
being seared by a minute but horrific flame. Her lips moved stiffly.
"It--back--jo--jo--"

He was holding her that way when the door slid noislessly open and they
filed through.

       *       *       *       *       *

He hated them thoroughly--the weird polyglot of selfish recluses,
without purposes here in their rotten, sequestered borough. Greatest
minds of the System withholding their marvels of science. The Martie
surgeon, the Mercurian medic, the Ganymedian and Saturnian, slippery,
metallic and spidery. And weirdest of all, the Jovian liquescent brain
in its square, black cubicle body ... a faceless, eyeless, limbless
parasite. An incredibly specialized thinking formulae sentiently
bubbling in the arms of the Martian medic.

On its own world, there were special mechanisms designed to carry these
Jovians around. But here in S.S.C. it evidently utilized personnel for
transportation. No Jovian had ever visited another world in the System,
and vice versa. They were neutrals with a strict mutual code of hands
off with all other planets.

They were the sociopaths of the System. They had never entered the
Federation, even on paper. Isolationists who--

       *       *       *       *       *

Then he knew. Without that clue from poor Vale, he might never have
found out the truth until it was too late. If it wasn't already much
too late.

"_Jo--Jo--_" just what she had been trying to tell him. The menace to
the Solar System that made even the Martians only insignificant pawns
were the unknown completely ignored Jovians!

The Martians pawns of these little--impossible. No, not impossible.
The Jovians were mysteriously uncatalogued. They possessed telepathic
power by which they communicated with each other. But no being of any
other planet had ever been able to communicate with a Jovian--as far
as anyone knew. It was said that it demanded some time for a Jovian to
familiarise itself with highly individualized brain-wave patterns.

But when they did, they were supposed to be able to control that mind--

Venard shivered, uncontrollably. The horrible implication, the
tremendous scope of possibility flooded open, poured fear in Venard's
desperate, groping brain. Having never entered in Solar politics,
having always been withdrawn, unobtrusive, and silent on their dim dark
world, they had been theoretically harmless. But what if they secretly
controlled key figures in the System? Here, in S.S.C., they could have
enslaved the greatest weapons and knowledges of science of the entire
Solar System, and from there--

Vale had stiffened in his arms, fell away from him. She was standing
there coldly watching him with no warmth and no feeling, suddenly an
alien antagonistic being. The others ringed him, silently waiting and
watching.

Venard's semantically-trained mind reacted quickly and efficiently.
The Jovian needed a certain unspecified time to solve the intricacies
of Venard's highly individualized brain patterns. In that uncertain
interim, he had to get the brain of Zharkon I out of S.S.C. to the
waiting Martians. If they were waiting. And, if this Jovian mentality
in a cube controlled S.S.C., there was only one possible action.
Capture the Jovian. With the dark world being in his power, he could
control S.S.C.--that is, until the Jovian familiarized itself with his
brain waves, and all the complex inter-relations of the incredibly
intricate switch-board of his cerebrum.

Nothing could comprehend all the circuits in its entire complexity.
The Jovian power lay in its specialized ability to probe into key
centers and control them. If Venard did control the Jovian, it would be
only until it grasped his individualized peculiarities of rhythm and
circuits. It had taken quite long, seven days, to renew its control
of Vale's big I.Q. even when it had already controlled it once. But
his--how long? Maybe days, hours. Maybe only minutes. He was no complex
cerebral organism.

Anyway, his H-gun suddenly in his hand, he leaped for the Martian who
held the Jovian. Venard had gambled often.

A wave of evil and rather horrid thought struck him along with a snarl
of material resistance from the polyglot of beings who opposed him.
The Jovian knew his purpose; its sycophants were resisting him madly.
Sycophants--the greatest mentalities of the System, pawns of a six-inch
cube!

Venard, too late, tried to avoid the Martian's appendage raking at his
H-gun; but it struck savagely downward and the H-gun fell away under
the whip-like force, clattered across the plastic floor. He buried
a fist in the body sac, and the Martian toppled away. Venard drove
after it, clutching at the Jovian in its tentacles; and he felt it
against his hands. He pulled, strained, swore. The little metallic
Mercurian whined thinly and swirled its filaments at Venard. He pulled
the Jovian under one arm, hugged it against his side, shivering; and
then he grabbed a shocking electrifying handful of the Mercurian and
wrenched savagely. A hot, leadish fluid boiled from the gaping hole as
the Mercurian slumped.

Venard fell away from the Martian, holding the Jovian frantically,
crawled dizzily along the floor as he scrabbled for the H-gun. Two
other figures were diving for it. Vale, and the Neptunian spiderman.
It wasn't really Vale now. It was just a segment of the Jovian's
mind, but it wasn't easy to swing a short solid blow that connected
scientifically with her small delicate jaw so that she slumped
soundless. His hand went on around, gripped the grey furred neck of the
spiderman, twisted it. Mandibles jerked apart, and a poisonous green
juice streamed outward, missed Venard's face by inches.

Then he had the H-gun in his hand; he pressed it against the black
faceless cube. He sent out quick stabbing thought messages and commands
at random. He didn't know whether the H-gun's electri-power unit would
effect the Jovian's shell or not. But he soon found the potentiality.
"Call them off, or I'll destroy you," he kept thinking frantically.

       *       *       *       *       *

Others had been summoned; a number of weird beings jammed the door into
the operating room. But it was plain that the Jovian was vulnerable
to the H-gun. Its one weapon was thought control. It had no others
at all. Until it could solve the enigmatic intricacies of Venard's
neuro-cerebral circuits, it was helpless. Until then, Venard controlled
S.S.C. Until--then?

The minions of the Jovian were frozen in tense silent waiting;
motivated by a single thought command, they stood taut, watching him
dully.

Already he sensed the dark hate and growing frenzy of the Jovian
rising. Evidently it was figuring out its problem.

Holding the Jovian tightly, the H-gun trained directly on it, Venard
ran out the door while the knot of Solar beings parted before him in a
jerky weaving enslavement. He shuddered. These were superminds--these
wolfish, silently waiting ghouls. Every conceivable size and form that
crawled, hopped, floated and wobbled, every type of Solar intellect
from ingenious plant life to pure energy entities pulsing whitely in
mid-air. All equally helpless to act until the Jovian could act.

The Martian medic had recovered and was tottering blearily on its
four contracting legs. "You," Venard gestured at the Martian, at the
same time jiggling the Jovian suggestively. "Lead me to the body bank
section. I'm after the brain half of Zharkon I. Quick, on the double!
Or I blast your Jovian dictator in a million pieces."

The Martie started down the vaulted hall, with Venard close behind
him. And the rustling progress of all the others followed expectantly.
A sharp, jolting shock rocketed between his temples; the Jovian had
connected with a sneak punch. How long would the Jovian need? It would
be easier to work against time if he knew how much time he had.

They passed massive walls lined with huge, sealed and refrigerated
sterile banks containing spare body parts of every intellectual type of
being among all the Solar Worlds. Bank after bank filled with fantastic
arrays of alien body parts. One bank contained, for example, every
variety of articulation; among these were every kind of human hand.
Doubtless his hand had come from here. Then his reluctant Martie medic
guide paused before one bank especially reserved for the synthetically
developed mass of convoluted tissue known as the double-brain of
Zharkon I, three times larger than a human brain. It boasted two
completely separated brain sections, the thalamic and the cortical. The
lack of ability to integrate these two seats of pure primitive emotion
and pure reason resulted in the variable, unpredictable, unstable
actions of most humans or other intellects. The Zharkon could turn
on either and create desired levels of reaction--almost an ultimate
free agency, or free will set-up. This was one of the first developed
Zharkon double-brains. A thousand years old.

The Martie opened the bank at Venard's command, lifted it out in its
sealed, self-containing unit. The Martie adjusted temperature and
self-feeding gauges that would keep the brain preserved in transit for
an unspecified length of time.

Venard staggered then, and grabbed for support where there was none.
A thick slimy blackness closed in. The damn Jovian! He could feel the
dark, vast depths of its alien mind opening, then merging with his own.
A vaulted abyss of mental perils loomed that were thought-shattering.
He felt himself falling, falling through mental parsecs. White-hot
knives slashed deep into his flashing brain, wrenching, stabbing. He
sobbed for air, staggered through a veiled mist in some strange and
hideous mental land.

There were moaning forces of evil screaming through tortured nerves.
And somehow, he was crawling through this thick, swirling evil mental
land. A red roaring throbbed in his ears. His heart pumped desperately
as he crawled toward something that fought him with all the strength of
fear, black hate, and a massive, evil will. Huge, surrealistic, he saw
his hand before his burning eyes; they were like disembodied parts of
himself. Far out ahead of him, digging, clawing futilely toward some
goal he had to attain. He couldn't remember what it was.

His hands gripped white-hot metal, but he couldn't let go or he would
fall back away from the thing he must reach. Stench of burning flesh
clouded his eyes. Pain rocketed back into his face. He couldn't fight
it! He was losing, failing, sinking back and down. Then his hands
were beating empty space, and he was toppling into a black well with
a bottom of--there was no bottom. With a hopeless, despairing cry, he
writhed frantically, found a jagged edge and hung on, straining, every
nerve screaming, at a scaly wall that shivered, heavily alive.

       *       *       *       *       *

But his hands were slipping; he knew he would fall into the well. And
once he fell into that blackness, he was gone forever. He was in a
world of thought, and in that world he had no defenses, not against
such a highly specialized entity of thought as the Jovian. Yes--that
was the goal--he was trying to reach the Jovian. That was the symbol.
But he could never reach it. The pain was too great. Pain could kill.
Shock could stop his brain and heart.

"Vale!"

His voice was harsh, despairing. Had he called? Had he sent that wild
cry ringing out toward someone, anyone--?

"Vale!"

But she could not help him now! She was even further down in this black
hell of the Jovian's. She was already lost....

"Vale...."

The voice was weak, now, weak as is the voice of one dying. Black
horror rose about him--

Then, in an abrupt flooding surge of joyous change, the blackness was
blotted out by light.


                                  VI

A soft, distant shimmering glow pierced through in arrows of jeweled
brilliance. A swirling mist swam toward and around him. It was a
beautiful, soft enchantment. A green world of gently swaying fronds and
phosphorescent bubbles climbing and bursting in clouds of multi-colored
flame.

It was an underwater city, a delicate coraled Babylon of some alien
beauty, with avenues of high dainty ferns swaying to the urgings of
invisible currents. Enmeshed in this strange ensorcelled dream of
jeweled, glimmering, glittering wonder, Venard's mind sped through
emerald halls....

And suddenly, by his side, there was Vale--her presence mistily
improbable, and yet somehow definite. He could not see, he could not
feel, but he could know--

He and Vale were being summoned, called by frantically urging minds.

They floated into a room that was nebulous, quivering now into plainer
sight, now withdrawing into indefiniteness. Then Venard saw a brilliant
flame that grew, hardened, crystallized, shone brighter and more
brilliantly strange. Mists of argent light, then floating shadowy
shapes of incredible delicacy swam into view. He knew it now.

The Undersea City of the Venusian Sea People.

Small, round, quasi-human faces looked with deep concern into his. Not
his face, but into his mind, his roving, battling mind. Opaque arms,
delicate and slender as flower stems, motioned with desperate urgency.

The reality of the apparent fantasy hit Venard like a projectile from
space with a shockingly familiar voice, a mental voice from the dead:

"Hey, Karl! It's me, Kewpie Doll Larson. We gotta move fast, see? It's
me and the Venusian Sea people. It's us! We're helping you fight the
Jovian."

Venard thought frantically, "How? You're--you're supposed to be dead!"

"No, Karl. That was just a gag. I burned loose the muscle hinges
that holds them clams together, but I still couldn't get out. Then,
when the tide came and backed up into that moat, the Venusians
swam up and rescued me. They knew what had happened; they used
their thought-crystals. Listen, it ain't fantastic at all. Them
memory-spheres are mental power synthesizers, just like dynamos.
The Sea People have been working on these things secretly to fight
the Jovians with. Listen, Karl. You're the instrument, see? We all
concentrate on our crystals and you can blast that infernal black
box to Kingdom Come. I'll be in there with you in two shakes of a
three-tailed _ghroat_. I'm just outside S.S.C. now! Give him hell,
Karl!"

"But--how?" his mind almost gasped.

Then he heard Vale's laugh--and it was a joyous thing. "Too many people
have told you too little," her message came through. "Come--we haven't
much time now. You must trust these people. They will show you how...."

Arm in arm, then, they soared up into green translucence. Curiously, as
they rose, the green grew deeper, darker, and choking terror tore once
again at Venard's throat--a terror cunningly without reason.

He suddenly felt the dark box nestling against his ribs. Had he been
carrying the Jovian even down among the Sea People?

And where was Vale? The warming sense of her presence was withdrawn.
Fear stabbed into him again. Fear--and those tendrils of white-hot
anguish.

He was back in the body bank ... alone ... with the Jovian. Black fury
burst once more against his reeling mind, but through it rose the
faintest of echoes: "Give him hell, Karl!"

Energy, strength, courage, power flooded through him. Still, there was
no reality, no visible enemy, no material hall with body banks and
mosaic walls and solid plastic floors. Out of a black sea bobbed a
cloudy sphere of coruscating evil hate. Venard leaped, his body bending
through an arc of torture. He had the sphere in his dripping hands,
holding it high. He must hurl it from him, smash it, but it clung to
him, seemed a part of him. Blindness thickened his sight; then, as it
thinned, he blinked. The Jovian cubicle body was smashing against the
high, up-curving wall of the buried body bank hall in S.S.C.

A dazzling greenish glare exploded in a bright crackling flame that
flung him full length. In his mind burst an ultimate unhuman cry of raw
agony from the Jovian. It climbed beyond his auditory range so high
that a stark-shock wrenched his spine and shook his brain in his skull.
And the Jovian spewed out in a pulsating, semi-liquid mass, ran down
the smoothly polished mosaic.

Venard rubbed his burning eyes, as he sat there wearily trying to grasp
some general understanding. His body was terribly tired. The Martian
medic helped him to his feet, but he couldn't stand alone. While he
swayed dizzily, the Martie's body sac nodded gently. "Thank you,
Lieutenant Venard. S.S.C. is free at long last. We had abandoned all
hope. A burial place of knowledge is always a final graveyard of hope."

       *       *       *       *       *

Venard was leaning wearily against the wall and the Martian medic was
lifting the first Zharkon's brain-sac into the refrigerated bank when
Larson and Vale came running down the hall. Larson was a spectacle for
sore eyes. His uniform was waving tatters, his skin a splotched mass
from digestive acids of the carnivorous clam. Vale wrapped unforgotten
arms around Venard's neck and for a while he forgot Larson, the
Zharkon's brain. He forgot almost everything.

"You defeated it," she breathed proudly, eyes shining. "You defeated
it! We couldn't help here in S.S.C. We were powerless. But, for that
few days when I was free, you would never have known about it."

"_He_ defeated it?" howled Larson from a raw, flaming face. "I defeated
it. Me and the Sea People did, that is. But we ain't got any time to
argue about who gets the medals. The Martians are outside with a couple
of Battlewagons. They're setting up electro-cannons, vibratory beams,
oxo-hydro guns, and God alone knows what they got in secret. They're
gonna break in here or bust."

The Martian medic said, "They can't, of course. The force fields and--"

Larson bawled out an ungentlemanly, "Don't be so smug! Comin' all the
way here I bet they've got some secret weapon."

Venard said curtly, "Contact them! I suggest we tell them we'll give
them their Zharkon the First's blasted brain. I'm beginning to get
brains on the brain!"

They hurried to a nearby room containing an inner-S.S.C communication
set. The Martian medic nervously switched through to S.S.C. control
study. "This is Yhongar in the Transplant Wards," he said. "Lieutenant
Venard of the Guards and an--er--Mr. Larson have defeated the Jovian,
as you probably know. Director Bronlen, are you all right, sir?"

Director Bronlen's austere face swam into view, changed now. It was
the face of a man who has learned the ultimate meanings of slavery and
freedom of thought. It smiled with new hope, and with gentle, but firm
strength. "Everything is all right now, Yhongar. However, two Martian
warships have been reported just outside S.S.C."

"Yes, Director Bronlen," said the Martian. "They intend to attack
S.S.C. in an attempt to obtain the brain of Zharkon I. Lieutenant
Venard says we should give them the brain. Lieutenant Venard, could
you explain to S.S.C. Director H. Bronlen the reason for this proposed
action?"

Venard hesitated, flushed weakly. "I--really don't know, exactly, that
is. A Martian subversive, Jhongan, working with the Allies, said to
give the Martian High Priests every possible assistance in obtaining
the Brain. He said that if the replacement in the present Zharkon is
accomplished, complete peace would return to the System."

Bronlen's face remained puzzled, groping. "There must be some
explanation. We owe you and Sergeant Larson an infinite debt of
gratitude, but unless some logical reason is given for this unorthodox
procedure, I'm afraid--"

Vale stepped forward. "I think I can explain Jhongan's purpose in
wanting this transplantation to succeed."

"I.Q. Saunders," smiled Venard wryly.

"Speak," said Bronlen. "But hurry. The Martians are preparing to
attack. For all we know, they may have developed some kind of
atomic-penetrator."

"Well," began Vale, "the fanatical Zharkonian Royalists thought
they had all authentic Martian historical documents destroyed and
forgotten. But they didn't. Their own interpretation of history is
based on primitive myth, legends of race and ancestor worship--the old
war gods of slaughter and conflict, the hero-worship of victorious
armies and of individuals killed in battle. Greatly similar to the old
Nazi and Norse ideologies. So, naturally, they didn't want the newly
conditioned masses acquainted with _true_ Martian history which is just
the opposite, being one of steady progress and peaceful aims designed
for the betterment of all peoples. But Jhongan's underground faithfuls
on Mars made it a point to preserve key historical Martian documents,
evidently, so that they have known all the time the exact nature of the
thousand-year-old brain of Zharkon I."

She paused, while Venard lit up a para-ette to steady his shaky nerves.
He grinned at her thinly. "I bet you could quote the whole Solar
Encyclopedia," he snapped.

She smiled at him and continued. "The amazing part is that the
Zharkonian leaders forgot real history themselves. Fell for their own
propaganda, which is so often the case. They believe in the myths and
legends they've resurrected--in part. It's obvious they've forgotten or
they certainly wouldn't be attempting this transplantation. You see,
we've studied that incredible double-brain thoroughly in connection
with socio-economic history of Zharkon the First's era. It was one of
the first double-brain experiments and wasn't entirely successful.
There was an uncontrollable influence of the thalamic half over the
cortex half. You see, Zharkon I was beneficently pathological as a
ruler."

"Pathological," exclaimed Director Bronlen.

"Yes. A fanatical pacifist, who went into daily trances and preached
the sacred brotherhood of all races, creeds and colors. But the methods
he used were impractical and revealed unintegration of his brain
sections. So you can see what will happen if that kind of cortex gets
in control of the present militaristic Martian government."

"A pacifist! Fanatical--pathological--" Venard grinned broadly. Larson
laughed hoarsely. The Martian swelled his body sac with pride and
renewed hope. Bronlen's face appeared to glow with admiration for
Vale's analysis, sharpened to sudden decision. "I am going to contact
the Martians immediately," he said. "I'll inform them that rather than
have conflict here within the cloistered halls of science, we'll give
them the brain of Zharkon I--without question. This will probably
inflate their paranoic egos considerably."

The teleaudio faded and almost immediately, several attendants of
as many planetary types in interne's gowns came down the long hall
and took the huge Martian double-brain away to the arrogantly and
triumphantly waiting Martian Priests. Their warships blasted off
without delay, atomic-interplanetary drives at full acceleration,
to transplant the brain into the body of their incapacitated war
leader--to transform him into an incurable, pathological, fanatical
lover of peace at any cost--a mind that regarded war for any cause at
any time more terrible than a cosmic plague.

Meanwhile, the Solar Federation was made acquainted with the real and
far more terrifying threat existing on the obscure, dark and mysterious
world of the Jovians. Panic swept over these worlds, realizing as they
did that there was no way to combat the pure thought power of the
Jovians.

However, the Venusian Sea People had found out via S.S.C. about the
thralldom of that citadel by the Jovian there, and, realizing the
tremendous threat to the System, they retreated into their strange,
deep laboratories to manufacture the memory-crystals by the thousands.
The mystic little globes would enable other than Jovian minds to
achieve a unity of mental strength. In the hands of millions of
Solarians, they would mean inevitable defeat for the outnumbered
Jovians.

       *       *       *       *       *

At an unspecified date after the Jovian defeat on Luna, in the
synthetic wonderland of Escapeasies and pleasure palaces, terraced
gardens and the magnificent space-view translucent dome of the resort
in Theophilus Crater, three figures stood on the crater's colossal rim.

Venard's arm was around Vale's shoulders as they stared with unshakable
awe into the huge vault of the sky enclosing them in a black and
gigantic hollow, sprinkled with the white dust of the stars. Nearby,
seated on a pneumatic couch with a bottle of _stihn_ in one hand and
a memory-crystal in the other, Louie Larson was realizing an ultimate
kind of hedonistic satisfaction with life.

It was the middle of the Lunar night, and the terrific cold crept in,
even through the laced seams of the dome.

"Go ahead, kiss," said Larson in a bored fashion. "Don't mind me. You
two don't know what love really means, either of you." He was looking
into the memory-crystal from which he never took his eyes. A willowy,
flowery, translucent green body undulated in its misty depths.

Vale smiled boldly up at Venard. Venard managed to shoot a quick grin
at Larson. "I suppose you're going to say that Venusian Sea Woman who
fell for you looks something like Glora Karstedt?"

"Don't joke about pure, cosmic love such as mine," warned Larson
dreamily. "It's a love of pure thought, a spiritual delight. There
never was any Glora Karstedt. I guess you'd call Glora a symbol, a
dream woman. An' I've found the ideal at last, friends. Her name is
Ulolalahr. Her thoughts alone in my mind are pure ecstasy."

Larson arose slowly and austerely and walked to the panel. "This
physical kind of thing is positively disgustin'," he said.

"I don't agree with him at all," said Vale, closing her eyes and
puckering up her lips.

A few seconds later, Venard breathed a long, "Wheeeoooow. What an I.Q.!
Ideally Qualified."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DESIGN FOR DOOMSDAY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
