ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Moon of Treason, by Emmett McDowell

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Moon of Treason

Author: Emmett McDowell

Release Date: March 04, 2021 [eBook #64695]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOON OF TREASON ***




                            Moon Of Treason

                          by EMMETT McDOWELL

                Branded an outlaw by the ISP, hated and
               feared as a mutant, Clyde Vickers stalked
               his quarry in impotent rage. His kind, it
           seemed, was always wanted for the dirty work....

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Summer 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Clyde Vickers shuffled awkwardly down the gangplank. After two years on
Jupiter he felt buoyant as a toy balloon in the mild gravity of Earth's
satellite. Every step he expected to go sailing over the heads of the
other passengers--up, up into the vast booming reaches of Luna City's
airlock.

The line jammed, came to a fuming stop. Vickers found himself wedged
between a woman who had boarded the liner at Mars and a bearded
Plutonian explorer. He craned his neck, peering over their heads to see
what had caused the bottleneck.

An officer of the ISP, in a blue uniform, was standing at the foot of
the gangplank, examining passports. Vickers cursed under his breath.

"Damn them," he thought, "damn them."

Behind him, the black spaceliner made sudden pistol-like reports as
it expanded in the warm air. It had brought some of the cold of outer
space along with it, and hoar frost stood out on its sides a foot
thick. It was rapidly exhausting the heat in the airlock. Vickers
shivered as the cold struck through his ill-fitting gray suit.

"Papers," the ISP man said and held out his hand.

With a start Vickers realized that he had reached the end of the
gangplank. The ISP man took one look at Vickers' little green book and
his face hardened.

"Parolee!" he said.

There were whispers from the crowd. A little boy said: "What's he done,
momma? What's he done?"

"Hush!" she bade him.

Vickers gave no sign that he'd heard.

"Two-time loser, eh?" the ISP man went on and ran his eyes over
Vickers. He saw a tall man with huge shoulders, the muscle bulging the
cheap gray cloth--muscle that could be acquired only in the killing
gravity of Jupiter's penal mines. Then he saw Vickers' eyes, and he
looked startled.

Vickers had his nictitating lids lowered; his eyes seemed almost
normal. Almost but not quite!

"What the devil!" the ISP man wet his lips. "Vickers! By God, I should
have recognized the name. Vickers, eh?" He seemed about to say more,
then changed his mind. "Move along. You're holding up the line."

"My passport."

"Pick it up at the parole board. If you don't report there in
twenty-four hours, you'll be picked up yourself and shipped back to
Jupiter. You're a two-time loser, Vickers; you can't afford to get into
trouble again."

Vickers regarded him with open dislike, then turned on his heel,
started across the spaceport at a cautious shuffle.

Freedom!

He couldn't leave the moon. He had to accept whatever work the parole
board secured for him--more than likely some stinking job deep in the
moon pits. He must report for a check-up and a psycho-therapeutic
treatment every four weeks. He couldn't marry or hold property or
change jobs.

And if he fell from grace again, it meant sterilization and a life
sentence on Jupiter.

Freedom. What the hell had he to look forward to?

       *       *       *       *       *

All his life Vickers had been lonely. His parents, horrified at having
produced a monstrosity, had placed him in a home and washed their hands
of him.

Not that Vickers' abnormality was disfiguring or particularly
noticeable even--you had to look closely at his eyes to recognize the
nictitating lids--but he was a freak, a mutant, and the sight of him
had been a constant reminder of their shame.

At the home, Vickers' playmates had quickly discovered his queerness
and had taunted him about it with the cruelty of children. His attempts
at friendship were met with rebuffs. He might have been able to adjust
but he was never allowed to forget that he was different.

Later when the peculiar power of his eyes became known, he was feared
a little, resented and cordially hated. Vickers was forced in on
himself. He built a shell, a hard flippant armor against the senseless
antagonism he met everywhere.

In spite of hysterical predictions and a flood of stories in the
science-fiction magazines, the Atomic Age had not ushered in a wave of
mutants--at least not radical mutants. Vickers was practically unique.

And alone.

Nevertheless Vickers experienced an odd tingling excitement as he
emerged from the lock into Luna City. Beneath his thick layers of
protective indifference, he was eager as a boy, friendly, sensitive. A
starved gregariousness looked out of his eyes in unguarded moments.

He stood with his back to the wall of an export firm, breathing deeply
of the warm, artificially earth-scented air. Through the soles of his
feet he could feel the pavement vibrating faintly, as deep inside the
bowels of the moon, the mechanical mining worms gnawed out the ore,
chewed it, digested it, spat it out as metal ingots.

The voice of the city rolled over him, deafened him. His eyes were
bewildered at the crowds jamming the pavement. His pulse leaped. He was
like a blind man who has just had his sight restored.

Someone said: "Hello, Vickers," and struck him on the shoulder. "Glad
to see you out."

Vickers brought his eyes down. He stared at the man who had addressed
him. The look of exaltation slowly faded from his face to be replaced
by a puzzled frown.

"I don't know you."

"Oh, come now, surely you recognize me." The man was as big as Vickers,
exactly, and the same build. He was clad in a shabby gray suit. There
was something tantalizingly familiar about him. Vickers wrinkled his
forehead in concentration.

"I must remember that," said the man, and wrinkled his forehead exactly
like Vickers.

They were standing in a doorway out of the stream of pedestrians.
Suddenly Vickers' mouth fell open. He stared at the man in startled
disbelief.

It was himself!

The resemblance was too perfect. The same close-cropped black hair
and Jupiter-enlarged muscles. The same short, straight nose, wide,
thin-lipped mouth, square jaw. Even the same transparent inner lids
lowered over pale gray eyes. It was like looking into a mirror.

Vickers felt his mouth go dry.

"Who are you?" he demanded harshly.

"You recognize me? Good."

The man grinned, began to edge away.

Vickers lunged for him. But the fellow eluded his grasp, slipped into
the stream of traffic like an eel. He was rapidly being swallowed up by
the crowd. Vickers ploughed after him.

There was something afoot--something dangerous to himself, he felt.
He was determined not to lose sight of his double and opened his
nictitating lids....

Instantly, the scene about the busy spaceport changed. It took on a
vaporous unreality like an x-ray photograph. The people, the buildings,
even the pavement underfoot became tenuous as smoke. He could see right
through them.

It always frightened Vickers a little to use his full vision, taking
him a second to adjust. Then he located his double about ten steps
ahead.

He could make out the misty outlines of elevators in the man's flashing
heels. So that was how he'd given himself the necessary height. Pads
filled out his frame reproducing Vickers' Jupiter-trained muscles. The
nictitating lids had been cleverly simulated by contact lenses.

But why?

Why should anyone go to all that trouble to disguise himself exactly
like Vickers--even to the ill-fitting gray suit? There was something
sinister about the whole affair.

Just then Vickers tripped, lost his precarious balance and fell
sprawling.

He scrambled to his feet in time to see the stranger leap into an air
taxi.

"Look at his eyes!" a woman cried out at his elbow. "Look at his eyes!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Vickers hastily lowered his inner lids, cursing under his breath. There
wasn't another cab in sight. He'd better clear out before he was the
focal point of a riot. Normal humans weren't fond of mutants.

Already a crowd was collecting. Vickers heard angry mutterings. He
forced his way through the press bull-like. Suddenly he found his path
blocked by two determined-looking men.

"Hold on," said the man on the outside and put his hand on Vickers'
chest. He was blond with cold, pale blue eyes. "What's your hurry?"

Vickers started to thrust them aside when he felt the second man jam a
gun into his ribs.

"Vickers, aren't you?" asked the blond man.

"What of it?"

"Come along." He jerked his chin toward an air taxi. "Don't make a
fuss."

"Where?"

"Headquarters." The man produced an ISP card. "We tried to catch you at
the ship, but you'd left."

Vickers hesitated. Despite the pistol in his ribs, he thought he could
take the two plainclothesmen. It would be a futile move, though. The
ISP would throw out the net for him, and this time he would be sent
back to Jupiter for life.

He sighed, "All right," and climbed into the cab.

He wondered if there could be any connection between the incident
outside the spaceport and this visit to ISP headquarters, but he knew
it would be useless to ask. He stared silently out the cab window at
the polyglot crowd, drawn from three worlds.

The moon was international. It was governed by a board of seven
delegates, one each from the seven great nations of Earth. They were
known simply as "The Seven" with headquarters in the moon-tower near
the center of Luna City. The ISP offices were located there too as well
as all government bureaus.

All at once Vickers realized that the cab was headed in the wrong
direction.

"Where are we going?" he demanded, jarred out of his stoical calm.

The ISP agents had taken seats one on each side of him. He could feel
their guns prodding his ribs, sleek automatics with built-in silencers.
Wicked things that could tear half his guts out.

"Shut up," the blond man said.

Vickers lapsed into silence again. He was more bewildered and angry
than alarmed. Try as he would, he couldn't guess who'd want him badly
enough to snatch him.

There had been no rivals in Vickers' line of work. Samuels and Rebkia,
his partners, had both been killed in the ISP trap two years ago. There
was no one left who had any interest in him. Unless--

He said suddenly: "You're not ISP agents."

"That's right."

"What's the idea then?"

"You ask too many questions," said the blond man.

"An' that's a fact," the other agreed.

Vickers' mouth set. He still thought he could take the two gunmen, but
his curiosity had the best of him. He sank back in the cushions and
waited.

The cab had gone about three kilometers when it pulled up at the curb.

"All right, Vickers," the blond man said; "here's where you get your
answers."

He crawled out, straightened. The cab had stopped before a door of
opaque blue plastic. Above it in letters of electric blue light was the
inscription:

                        INTERNATIONAL SPY RING
                             INCORPORATED
                        Secrets Bought and Sold

Vickers stared at it in disbelief. There was just the plain blank
door squeezed between a theatre on the right and a travel agency with
posters of the Martian deserts in its windows on the left. The blue
door was hard to focus on--like a slightly blurred picture. He opened
his nictitating lids.

To his utter bewilderment, he found himself looking through the door
into the theatre lobby. The blue door didn't lead anywhere. It wasn't
even a door, he realized, but an illusion!

       *       *       *       *       *

Vickers had been examined many times. "The peculiarity of your vision,"
one eminent psycho-biologist had told him, "lies in your ability to see
matter as it actually is. Tenuous unmaterial energy. There's more space
between the nucleus of an atom and its electrons in proportion than
between the sun and its planets. It's like looking at the stars"--and
he had waved his hand at the sky--"you can see them but they don't
obstruct your vision."

It was a strange world that Vickers could see with the nictitating lids
raised--a fairy-like insubstantial world, beautiful and shocking. A
glass world without secrets.

But his eyes never lied to him. And the door didn't exist in fact.
There was only a blank theatre wall where he had seen it.

Then the blond man stepped forward and went through the motions of
opening the door.

"Inside," he said and walked through and vanished!

Vickers knew he had vanished, because he could still see the misty
outlines of the wall where the door should have been and the interior
of the theatre. He felt his stomach go hollow. "In you go," the other
man said and nudged him with the pistol.

Vickers allowed his nictitating lids to close.

At once he could see the door again, standing open, and a reception
room beyond. The blond man was just inside motioning for him to enter.

Vickers drew a deep breath and stepped across the threshold.

There was a moment of abysmal darkness, a giddy sensation, then Vickers
found himself standing in the reception room, ankle deep in carpet. He
felt unaccountably heavier--not as much as he would weigh on Earth but
more than he should weigh on the moon.

A girl was approaching him. She said: "Go right in, Mr. Vickers,"
indicating a door across the room; "they're waiting for you."

"Who's waiting for me?"

"Mr. Thorpe. The president of International Spy Ring, Inc. Right in
here, sir."

The utterly absurd title of the company struck him anew. The seven
great nations would no more permit such a business to exist than they
would sit supinely by and allow an armed invasion.

In the first place they all maintained their own very efficient
espionage and counter espionage systems. They couldn't afford to let
one nation grow more powerful than the rest. At any costs they had to
preserve the status quo.

He didn't voice his doubts, but followed the receptionist into a large,
spartanly furnished office. There were no windows, the room being lit
by soft yellow light that seemed to come from everywhere and nowhere.
The top of a huge desk of purely functional design was littered with
gadgets, and behind it sat a bald, pink-faced man, wearing a pleasant
expression.

There was one other person in the room--a girl--and she was crying
softly.

"Mr. Thorpe," the receptionist said, "Mr. Vickers to see you," and
withdrew.

The girl turned her back quickly to Vickers so that he couldn't see her
face, but he could watch her hands worrying the material of her dress.

It was an expensive dress, Vickers recognized, an exclusive Venusian
creation of green gossamer that was very nearly transparent even to his
normal vision. He was a little shocked and looked away.

The man called Thorpe beamed at him. "Glad to see you, Vickers," he
said and made it sound genuine. "Won't you sit down?"

Vickers let himself sink into a chair across from the girl. He couldn't
keep from studying her. Her brown hair was done in a sort of halo
effect and she wore wedge type sandals that must have added three
inches to her height and made her feet look tiny.

Thorpe cleared his throat.

"We had a good reason for bringing you here," he said; "I hope it
didn't inconvenience you too much."

"Get to the point," said Vickers.

Thorpe looked startled.

"Vickers, we can use a man with your unique talents. In fact, there's
a job that no one but you--"

"Sorry."

Vickers was on his feet, starting for the door to the reception room.

"Don't be hasty," Thorpe said in an agitated voice. "I really can't let
you go until you hear me out."

       *       *       *       *       *

Vickers caught the veiled threat in his words, swung around. Thorpe's
finger was resting on a button. The girl had begun to sniff audibly.

"All right," said Vickers, "but make it short. I have to register at
the Parole Board office before the expiration of twenty-four hours."

"No hurry," Thorpe said, waving him back to his chair. "You met your
double on the street. He's gone to the board to register in your
place. He'll also fill any job they see fit to assign you. So you see,
Vickers, you're quite free. You're even supplied with a perfect alibi."

Vickers did see. He saw a number of things, none of which reassured
him. He said: "Fingerprints?"

"They'll check. He's wearing tips with your prints. So will his height
and weight. He's a fine actor, Vickers, one of the best."

"How did you get my prints? My record is in the ISP secret file, but--"

"But that's our business. Secrets, Vickers. Any secrets. State secrets,
scientific secrets." He chuckled. "We make no secret about it."

Vickers looked skeptical.

"Do you mean to tell me that you could steal the plans, say, of the
USSE's new space drive?"

Thorpe rubbed his hands together, his grin broadening.

"We sold them the plans. In fact, we sold those same plans to the
Black Republic, the Arab Federation, China and New Spain as well. The
only reason we didn't sell them to the United States is because they
happened to be the ones who had developed them."

He paused to let his words sink in. "That may seem unethical, but it's
our policy. In our small way, we feel that we help to preserve the
status quo."

"Rubbish!" said Vickers. "If you'd done that, they would have sent the
lot of you off to Jupiter."

"They try." Thorpe looked at his watch. "In fact, Vickers, we have
information that the ISP plans to raid us in exactly twenty-three
minutes."

Vickers stiffened. "Is that straight?"

"Quite. But don't alarm yourself. They'll never get past the blue door."

Far from being soothing, Thorpe's reassurance had just the opposite
effect on Vickers. For the first time, he began to doubt that he could
get through that blue door himself. There was something so damned
complacent about the man behind the desk--

In sudden alarm, Vickers opened his nictitating lids, flicked a quick
glance around.

The room was quite real, but there was no sign of Luna City nor of the
moon's desolate surface. He sucked in his breath.

The office seemed to be part of a large windowless structure. He could
see, through the walls, a restless ochre sea outside and a red pebble
beach. Strange, sinuous vegetation cloaked the shore.

"Where are we?" he blurted out. "How did I get here?"

"I'm sorry," said Thorpe, "but that's one secret that isn't for sale."

Vickers closed the nictitating lids and the office recovered its
solidity.

"What's your proposition?"

Thorpe gave him a shrewd look. "This is Tani Fralick," he introduced
the girl. "I'm sure you've heard of her father. He's the physicist...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Vickers sat bolt upright. Fralick was probably the most renowned man on
Earth, Mars or Venus. He certainly was the Systems greatest physicist.
Fralick was head of the United States' Bureau of Research. It was
practically treason for his daughter to be in the offices of such an
organization as "International Spy Ring, Inc."

Thorpe said: "Tani's father has been abducted by the Arab Federation."

The girl gave a muffled sob, buried her face in her hands.

Vickers yelled: "What!" Then in a lower voice, "But there's been
nothing on the newscasts."

"Of course not. The U.S. is hushing it up. They don't want it
broadcast that their top experimental physicist has been stolen. They
don't even know who has him or where he is. Tani has asked us to get
her father back."

"Where is he?"

Thorpe didn't look so cherubic as he drummed on the desk top.

"Here. Luna City. He's being held in the embassy of the Arab
Federation."

Vickers said: "Why don't you turn your information over to the U.S.?"

"It's not as simple as that. The Arabs would kill him before they'd
give him up."

Vickers shrugged. "If the U.S. with all its resources can't release
him, I don't see how you expect me to do it."

"You can, though. In fact you're the only one who can. The question is,
will you?"

"No!" said Vickers flatly; "I won't."

"But--"

"No buts about it. With my record, it would be poison for me, if my
name ever became associated with anything like International Spy Ring,
Inc. I'm through, Thorpe, I've quit. I can't afford to be sent back to
Jupiter."

Tani Fralick suddenly burst into a flood of tears. Vickers clenched his
fist. At that instant a bell began to ring insistently.

"The raid," Thorpe said. "What say we watch it? Anyway, Vickers, you
can't leave 'til it's over."

Vickers grunted, sank deeper into his chair. Tani's soft child-like
crying was getting under his skin, but he steeled himself against it.

Thorpe pressed a button on his desk, and a huge televisor screen on
the wall behind him glowed into life. The multiple noises of Luna City
rolled into the office shattering their isolation. The tri-dimensional
effect was so real, that it was as if the wall itself had been removed
and they were peering directly into the street outside the blue door.
Vickers could read its idiotic sign.

                        INTERNATIONAL SPY RING
                             INCORPORATED
                        Secrets Bought and Sold

All at once he frowned as he discovered the silent men converging on
the entrance. They were dressed in civilian clothes, threading their
way unobtrusively through the press. ISP men, Vickers recognized, with
a thrill of alarm.

One of them reached the portal, put out his hand for the knob.

The blue door vanished.

It simply went out like a light, leaving the ISP man staring stupidly
at the blank wall of the theatre.

Thorpe snapped off the televisor. Vickers could see that he was
chuckling.

"The fun's over," he said. "But they'll be nosing around there for a
week. There's really no door there, you know."

"Yes, I know. But I'll be damned if I understand."

"You will," Thorpe said cryptically. Then he switched on the
inter-office com. "Miss Stevens, see that this memo is circulated
throughout the organization. 'Due to a police raid, the new offices of
International Spy Ring, Inc., are located at B624-1/2 Water Street,
Level Three'."

       *       *       *       *       *

He clicked it off, stared at Vickers coldly. All the friendliness was
gone.

"Suppose we quit fencing. We know your history, Vickers. You used to
claim that you could arrange the escape of any prisoner, no matter
where he was being held--for a price. You made monkeys out of the ISP
for a while. How many men have you broken out of the Jupiter Penal
Mines and readjustment camps?"

"I don't know," said Vickers. "It was a good racket while it lasted."

"But you couldn't finagle your own escape, could you?"

"It's easier to work from the outside," Vickers rejoined laconically.

Thorpe said in a nasty voice: "That's just the point I'd like to make.
Either you help us release Fralick, or we'll frame you and turn you
over to the ISP."

Vickers' eyes narrowed. He leaned suddenly across the desk, hit Thorpe
on the chin with his balled fist!

There was a "crack!" as Thorpe's jaw bone snapped. He was bowled over
backward to lie in an unconscious heap against the wall.

Tani screamed. She tried to reach the desk, but Vickers grabbed her off
her feet, thrust her under his arm.

"Put me down! Put me down," she cried furiously, kicking, squirming.
Vickers paid no more attention to her frantic wriggling than he would
have to a kitten. His inner lids were raised and he was staring with a
strange fixity at the alien world visible through the walls.

"What are you going to do?" Tani gasped. "Are you crazy? You can't walk
out of here. The blue door isn't operating. Besides, even if you did
get away the Ring would have you framed."

"I'm not going back to Luna City," Vickers said tersely. "I'm going
outside."

"Outside!"

"Yes." He started for the reception room. "I don't know where we are.
Another world, another dimension, it's all the same. I'll be free of
the ISP. I'll find a way out if I have to break through the walls."

"But you can't!" she wailed. "The atmosphere outside it! It--it's
chlorine!"

Vickers felt as if someone had kicked him in the belly. He set Tani on
her feet.

"How do _you_ know?"

"Thorpe showed me. He--he--" she straightened her skirt managing to
look flustered--"he's been very friendly."

"Where are we?"

"In another dimension, I think. The blue door is a--a stasis, Thorpe
called it. Don't ask me how they do it. They came through in space
suits and built this hermetically-sealed fortress."

Vickers was silent. After a moment, he said: "All right, you win. I'll
break out your father if it can be done."

       *       *       *       *       *

Vickers sat in a chair facing a blank wall; his nictitating lids were
raised, the pupils of his eyes like lambent flame. Beyond the wall lay
the embassy of the Arab Federation.

"What do you see?" demanded Tani in a suppressed voice.

Vickers and the girl were in the house of Seth Adda, an ex-senator and
a friend of Tani's father. He had been happy to lend Tani his house,
which was on the eighth level flush against the Arabian Embassy.

Vickers was dressed in a snuff-brown burnoose, the national Arab
costume. He said:

"There's a sleeping room just beyond the wall. This part of the embassy
must be the private quarters of one of the officials. The room opens on
a hall. There are six--seven--eight other bedrooms along it. I think
it's the harem. There's a swimming pool to the left."

"Can you see him?" Tani pleaded.

"Yes. But not very plainly. He's in a tiny cell almost in the center of
the embassy. There's a guard in front of the door."

"Is--is he all right? They haven't hurt him?"

Vickers concentrated on the vague outlines of the man lying on his
bunk. A thin man, elderly, with hollow cheeks. "So that's Doctor
Fralick," he thought, "greatest theoretical physicist since Einstein."

He said aloud:

"He seems okay."

Tani expelled her breath in relief. Vickers looked at her suddenly and
saw that tears were running down her cheeks. Involuntarily he started
to reach out his hand to comfort her, remembered the repugnance normal
humans felt toward him and let his hand drop to his knee.

The girl disturbed him. She was wearing practical gray coveralls
instead of the filmy creation she'd had on yesterday. She was beautiful
even in the baggy garment, but it wasn't altogether that. With the
strides that had been made in eugenics, an ugly man or woman was the
exception and, perversely, often had more appeal than the uniformly
handsome ones.

No, he was hungry for a woman, hungry for companionship and admiration.

He frowned, catching himself up with a jerk. Self pity! He'd better
watch himself. That way led to neurosis, manic depression and insanity.

He wished Tani would go away and leave him alone. He worked better
alone. But he knew she'd been set to watch him. The Ring probably
thought she'd do a better job of it since it was to her interest to see
that he didn't double-cross them.

She said, "Clyde."

"Yes?" He was startled and dropped his nictitating lids. She'd never
called him by his first name before.

"You resent being forced into this job, don't you? I'm sorry. Honest I
am, Clyde. But it was father's life or--or...."

"Or mine," he supplied dryly.

"That isn't fair."

"Isn't it?"

"No. You'll be protected and alibied--"

He said: "How much do you know about International Spy Ring, Inc.?"

She looked startled, her eyes widening. "Not--not very much, I guess.
I've heard father speak of them. They're big, Clyde. You don't know how
big. They've offices on Earth and Mars and Venus, too. The ISP can't do
a thing. They can't get past the blue doors. You can't fight the Ring.
They're invulnerable."

"Nothing's invulnerable."

"Clyde!" Her hand started towards him, dropped.

She can't bring herself to touch me, he thought. They're friendly
now--because I'm necessary; they can't do without my help. But what
about afterwards? What then?

If he were lucky, he'd be set free, to work in the moon pits where
his double was now. If he were lucky! He shivered a little. He knew
too much about International Spy Ring, Inc. As soon as he was of no
more use to them, they'd dispose of him. Permanently. Probably in that
dimension where their office was located. That beautiful little world
with the atmosphere of chlorine.

"Clyde," Tani repeated. "What are you going to do? You're not planning
to double-cross the Ring, are you? Not that, Clyde?"

"No." But he filed the idea away. The ISP might be willing to forget
his record, let him start out with a clean slate if he could deliver
the Ring into their hands.

"Why did the Arabs kidnap your father?" he asked Tani suddenly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl hesitated. "He--he was working on teleportation. And somehow
they got wind of it. It would have made space ships outdated. Armies
could be transported instantly behind enemy lines. It would have made
the United States supreme. He was about to succeed." She shook her
head. "But I don't see how the Arabs learned about it."

"Don't you?"

"No." She looked puzzled, then her brown eyes widened in comprehension.
"The Ring! But they're helping to rescue him."

"Why not? They're getting paid by both sides. You heard Thorpe admit
that they'd sold the space drive to every one of the seven countries."

"No. I can't believe it, Clyde." She bit her lip. "They're not like
that. Not really."

"Rubbish."

The girl's face had grown very white. "You won't let me down, Clyde.
You'll get father out, whatever you do?"

He opened his nictitating lids, peered through the wall into the
embassy. There were two women in the swimming pool. The sleeping
chamber was empty. So was the hallway.

He said, "Yes." Then, "Check the route. This is it."

He heard her gasp. Then she began to talk hurriedly into a tiny radio
strapped about her wrist.

Vickers looked up and down through the various floors of the embassy
next door, checking the position of the guard details, the officials
and their families. It was going to be tricky, he saw, a matter of
split second timing.

He got up and examined the sleek air taxi. It was a transparent plastic
tear drop and filled a fourth of the room.

One outer wall of the room had been removed outright. It had been
simulated with cloth flats like stage props so that it looked normal
enough from the outside. But when the time arrived, the air taxi could
burst right through it into the street.

The Ring was thorough, Vickers had to admit. And ruthlessly efficient.

He said: "Get in the taxi and start the motor. Tell them we'll crack
out of here in exactly fifteen minutes."

He heard her catch her breath and wheeled on her suddenly.

"What's wrong?" he demanded sharply. "Good Lord, don't go into a funk
now!"

"Hold it!" she said, the radio to her ear. He saw the blood drain
out of her face as she listened. Then she clicked it off, turned
frightened eyes on him.

"It's your double." Her voice sounded lifeless. "The ISP has discovered
the substitution. They have the net out for you now. You couldn't get a
block without being caught."

Vickers could feel his stomach knot with shock. He stared at her, his
blazing eyes probing straight through her. Anywhere else in the system,
he might have been able to escape.

But Luna City! It was like a hermetically-sealed gold fish bowl with
the ISP blocking all the exits. Sooner or later they'd dig him out.

Sterilization and a life sentence to the Jupiter Penal Mines! There was
no leniency shown third offenders, no matter how minor the infraction.

He got a grip on himself with an effort.

"Tell them," he said to the girl, "we'll crack out of here according to
schedule."

Her mouth made a soundless O.

"Get in the taxi and start the motor," he said with a grim sparkle of
humor. "I might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb!"

"But how'll we slip through the ISP net?" Tani protested.

"Get in there," Vickers said in a voice that brooked no questions. He
swung back to the wall separating them from the Arabian embassy. The
adjoining bedroom, he saw, was still empty.

       *       *       *       *       *

He drew the atomic knife from its holster beneath his burnoose, pressed
the stud. A long blade of coruscating atomic energy shot from the
handle.

The blade went into the wall as if the tough plastic had been butter.
With infinite caution, Vickers cut a four foot window into the next
building, lifted out the block.

"Don't fumble your part," he said over his shoulder. "We may be in a
hurry when we come back this way."

Without waiting for a reply, he stepped through, fitted the block back
into place.

His last glimpse of Tani revealed her crouched in the transparent
plastic air taxi, her eyes round and frightened as two new moons.

       *       *       *       *       *

Vickers didn't hurry. Hope for success lay in two factors: audacity and
his peculiar vision which allowed him to see what his opponents were
doing and so keep a number of jumps ahead.

The Arabs were a mixture of the old and the new. Scientifically, they
were on a par with any of the seven great nations, but they clung with
superstitious fanaticism to the old customs, the old way of life.

The harem was still inviolate, and Vickers knew there would be a guard
outside its door.

He located him through several walls that acted like layers of
cheesecloth to his eyes, dimming the guard's figure but not obscuring
it. He found the women. There were four, and half a dozen servants
besides. But they were congregated at the pool and in two of the rooms.

He could watch them laughing and chatting or swimming in the limpid
water. Dark-eyed houris with slender waists and full hips and breasts.
It was like a silent film of the ancients. But infinitely more real.

And deadly.

There was no one in the hall. Satisfied, Vickers left the bedroom,
walked swiftly down the carpeted hall until he reached the door at the
end.

He could see the harem guard leaning against the wall, a burly bearded
figure with a hawk nose and a hawk's fierce eyes. An automatic was
belted outside his blue and white striped burnoose.

Without hesitation or haste, Vickers ran the atomic knife through the
lock, forced open the door.

The guard spun around, gaping in surprise. He caught sight of Vickers,
reached for the automatic.

"By Allah!" he began.

Vickers cut off his head.

The head hit the floor with a thump, rolled a little, came to rest on
its stump, staring at Vickers out of open, startled eyes.

It upset Vickers, made him a little sick at his stomach. He swallowed,
glanced about quickly.

Three men, he discovered, were approaching around a bend in the
corridor. He had perhaps a minute or a minute and a half before they
came into sight.

He stuffed the guard's body into a closet, threw the head in after it.
He covered the bloodstains with a carpet, welded shut the harem door
with the tip of the atomic knife. Then he ran up the corridor away from
the approaching men.

This whole wing must be the living quarters of the embassy staff. It
was preternaturally quiet like the upper floors of a hotel. He could
see a few people in their rooms, one or two in the corridors, which he
avoided automatically.

The cell block where Fralick was being held was located in the main
building. The traffic was considerably heavier there, and Vickers'
eyes were never still. They darted here, there, watching one person's
progress, judging how many seconds it would take another to reach a
certain intersection.

His ears were alerted for the first outbreak of the alarm bell.
He didn't have time to notice the antique hangings, the exquisite
decorations, though he did catch an impression of sumptuousness.

The rear of Fralick's cell butted against the back of an office. In
advance Vickers had determined to cut through the wall between office
and cell and so avoid killing the guard. If he were lucky, he would
avoid detection for precious minutes also.

He had almost reached his objective when a heavy-set bearded official
entered the office and sat down behind the desk.

Vickers could see him mistily as he set to work with some papers. He
swore furiously under his breath, but didn't pause. Throwing open the
door, he jumped into the chamber.

In the feeble gravity of the moon, Vickers' leap carried him across the
room to the top of the Arab's desk.

The official gasped, tried to rise and call out. His face was turned up
to Vickers--a long frightened face with skin like yellow leather.

Vickers kicked him on his pointed chin.

The Arab went over backwards with a crash. Vickers didn't glance at
him, but shut the door, attacked the far wall with the atomic knife.

He lifted out a four foot segment. Fralick was on the other side
staring at the opening like a startled cat.

"What--" he began, catching sight of Vickers.

Vickers said low voiced: "Shut up. Come on!" Holding out his hand, he
half-helped, half-yanked the physicist from the cell.

"Who are you?" Fralick's clothes were wrinkled and he needed a shave.
He was gaunt, pale, excited. "I know! You're Vickers!"

Vickers' eyes narrowed in surprise, but he only said: "Hurry!"

The passage outside was still deserted, thank the gods. He pulled the
physicist after him, sprinted toward the living quarters in the wing.

There were voices ahead. Two men going in the same direction they were,
Vickers saw. He slowed down in order not to trample their heels.

He was nervous now. He could feel the time running through his fingers.

Still no alarm! They burst out of the corridor into an enormous hall,
crossed it swiftly, ducked down another passage. Damn place was a rat
run. Fralick was panting. "Hold out, old man!" Vickers thought. "Hold
out!" Still no alarm. They were going to make it. They had to--

All the bells in the world seemed to cut loose at once!

       *       *       *       *       *

Vickers jumped as if he'd been shot.

Fralick clutched his chest. For a moment Vickers was afraid the
scientist would pass out.

The bell rang frenziedly.

Hundreds of bells! Everywhere. Bells and shouts and trampling feet.
Through the misty walls Vickers could see running soldiers, frightened
officials, women and children. A vast terrifying pandemonium like a
disturbed ant nest--like a glass ant colony kept for observation.

Then the doors began to whoosh shut. Automatic doors closing off the
passages. Blocking escape! One rammed shut just behind them.

A party of guards caught sight of them. Steel jacketed bullets
ricocheted and whined down the corridor.

Vickers threw a gas grenade. The guards were blotted out by a fountain
of pale green mist. It wasn't deadly, but it would knock out the Arabs,
close off the passage temporarily.

Fralick was sobbing for breath. Suddenly Vickers grabbed him by the
shoulder.

"Here! This way! Through the harem."

With the atomic knife he freed the door which he'd sealed a few minutes
before. A few minutes! He glanced at his watch. Eighteen minutes
exactly; it seemed like hours! He was over his time. He put his
shoulder to the door, threw it back with a crash.

There was a cluster of frightened women in the corridor. When they
saw Vickers and Fralick, they began to scream and fled screaming like
chickens from a hawk.

Vickers paid no attention to them, but rushed to the bedroom where he
had cut through the wall. Kicking out the segment he almost hurled
Fralick through the opening.

Tani was waiting in the air taxi with the door open. A white, strained
Tani with a face like a mask.

"Dad," she cried.

Fralick tumbled into the taxi. Vickers started to shut the door, but
Tani held it open.

"Get in," she begged in a tight voice. "Quick!"

"No," he said. "The ISP would spot me in that air taxi and stop us. You
can get through all right by yourselves."

Consternation mirrored itself on Tani's waxen features. She shook her
head. "We're not going without you."

"Yes, you are!" he said; "no time to explain. I'll meet you at the blue
door."

She was almost in tears. "Clyde, we're not going to leave you behind!"

Through the gaping hole in the wall behind them, Vickers could hear the
sounds of pursuit closing in, but he didn't look around.

"You little fool!" he said brutally, "do you want to get me killed? Do
what I say. This is my kind of work!"

Suddenly she leaned from the air taxi, kissed him hard on the mouth.
Her eyes were wet.

"I'll be waiting," she said, catching her breath; "you crazy Quixotic
idiot. I'll wait forever."

Then she slammed the door. The taxi roared, bull throated, and leaped
forward, bursting a hole in the false wall.

Vickers stared after the diminishing air cab, rubbing his mouth with
the back of his hand.

"I'll be damned," he said softly; "I'll be damned." Then he turned
around.

He was just in time to see the first of the Arab guards lunge through
the hole in the wall of the embassy.

Vickers hurled his other gas grenade. The egg-shaped glass bomb smashed
against the floor. Plumes of the pale green paralysis gas shot upward.
But Vickers didn't wait to see its effect.

He left through the hole torn by the air taxi, reached the pavement,
began to walk rapidly toward the corner, the snuff-brown burnoose
flapping about his ankles.

He had seconds only before the pursuit would develop again. The bomb
was a delaying action, no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

Up ahead he could see a road block, and pedestrians milling around in
the street. A net hung from the level above, halting the air traffic.
The ISP was on the job.

"Out of the frying pan into the fire," he thought grimly. He glanced
back toward the house, although the Arabs couldn't possibly come
through the room until they'd procured a fan and blown the fumes clear.

An ISP patrol boat was gliding slowly up the street behind him. It was
manned by two men and was traveling just above the surface traffic.
A shallow, heavily armed and armored craft, it reminded Vickers of a
giant ray as it floated lazily through the air.

He jumped to the edge of the pavement, waved the patrol boat down
frantically.

It gave a low moan on its siren, swung in to the curb. The door opened.

The two men inside wore uniforms--smart blue breeches and blouses
trimmed in gold with the ISP insignia--three interlocking worlds
representing Earth, Venus and Mars--emblazoned on their shoulders. They
were both young and clean cut. Only their eyes looked old and hard.

"What's the trouble?" the officer nearest Vickers asked shortly.

"I saw him!" Vickers sounded excited. "I saw him!"

"Saw who?"

"The mutant!"

The ISP agents exchanged glances. At that instant Vickers hit the one
on the outside in the temple. He hit him with the handle of the atomic
knife. The man slumped forward, bumped his head against the slanting
windshield. Vickers was already sliding in beside him.

He shoved the unconscious agent to the floor boards, pressed the stud
on the knife handle. The blade of sparkling flame glittered into life.

"Take us up!" he said to the startled man at the controls; "and don't
touch the radio!" Almost as an afterthought he added softly: "I'm
Vickers. I'd just as soon die now, all at once, as be sent back to the
Jupiter Mines to die by degrees."

The ISP man blanched. He lifted the patrol boat into the air, sent it
scooting down the street. He kept dropping his eyes to the shimmering
blade of flame.

"Don't get that thing too close," he pleaded hoarsely.

Vickers said: "B624-1/2 Water Street, level 3. And I won't get the
blade too close if we get through without trouble."

"But suppose I'm ordered in?"

"That's your tough luck."

The ISP man was sweating. But he didn't dare remove his hands from the
controls. Beadlets of perspiration rolled down his cheeks and chin
unheeded.

As they approached the roadblock, he touched the siren. At its eerie
wail, a man hauled up the net, and the patrol boat slid beneath it.

Vickers let his breath escape. He was sweating too, he realized. His
forehead felt clammy as a dead fish.

They reached the blue door without being bothered, though. Vickers
stared at the sign:

                        INTERNATIONAL SPY RING
                             INCORPORATED
                        Secrets Bought and Sold

It was the one place in Luna City where the ISP couldn't reach him. But
would the ring give him sanctuary? He didn't know.

"They will," he thought; "they will, by Heaven, or take the
consequences!"

He said: "Here's where I leave you, officer. Thanks for the lift," and
slid out of the patrol boat.

The ISP man had guts. Vickers had taken his automatic, but the agent
reached for the emergency guns in the locker. Before he could shoot,
though, Vickers had disappeared through the blue door.

He sprang from the patrol boat, started after him. He was three feet
from the blue door when it vanished.

       *       *       *       *       *

Inside the reception room, Vickers balanced on the balls of his feet,
the ISP agent's automatic in his hand. His mouth was a thin line.
Except for Vickers, the room was empty.

He was about to raise his nictitating lids when the door of the inner
office opened and Tani flew to meet him. Involuntarily, he jerked up
the automatic, but the girl didn't even notice it.

"Clyde!" she said, and threw her arms about him, clinging desperately
as if she were afraid to turn loose. "I've been so afraid." There was a
funny little catch in her voice.

Vickers stared down at her, refusing to believe his senses. Then she
tilted her head back, and he could see the relief and happiness shining
in her eyes--and something besides.

Vickers kissed her. All his doubts were suddenly swept away and somehow
the old hurts along with them.

"Mr. Vickers," the receptionist said.

He hadn't noticed her enter the room. But he looked up and she was
smiling too. There was no repugnance in her eyes.

He said: "Yes."

"They're waiting to see you, Mr. Vickers. If you'll just step this way."

He glanced questioningly at Tani, who nodded. Together they entered
Thorpe's office.

Fralick was there, looking old and tired and a little messy. He was
sitting behind the big desk with Thorpe at his elbow. There were two
others in the office, a tall, parchment-faced Chinese, obviously of
Manchu descent and an Arab with the features of a Biblical patriarch.
They were smiling, all except Thorpe, who couldn't very well with his
jaw in a cast.

Doctor Fralick put the palms of his hands on the desk and leaned
forward. He said, "I'm very glad you made it, Vickers. I haven't had a
chance to express my appreciation."

Vickers wrinkled his forehead. There was an air of hopeful friendliness
tinctured with awe in their attitude that puzzled him. He didn't say
anything.

Fralick looked vaguely embarrassed. "I--we've another favor to ask you,
Vickers. We want you to come in with us."

"What?" said Vickers in a stunned voice.

"We want you in International Spy Ring, Inc. Need you. We--well, we
wouldn't expect you to accept a minor position of course. Not a man of
your calibre. If you'll join us, Vickers, you can take charge of the
field work. None of us is so well fitted for active duty as you with
your enviable vision, your resourcefulness."

Vickers didn't know what to say. That anybody envied him, wanted him
around, considered him an asset, knocked a hole in his armor. He had no
defenses against friendliness.

"But you," he said; "Doctor Fralick, you're head of the U.S. Bureau of
Research--"

"I'm also the head of International Spy Ring, Inc."

At Vickers' expression, Fralick allowed a smile to flit across his
visage.

"Don't judge us too harshly. Science is international, not the property
of one individual or one nation, even. It must belong to everybody.

"We don't want power. We're after peace and tolerance and the
dissemination of knowledge. We're united, Vickers. The scientists, the
technicians, the engineers of the seven great nations. Not all of us,
but enough of us."

He gave Vickers a shrewd penetrating look. "Our way may not seem
ethical, but it works. When there are no secrets between countries, war
is almost impossible. And there are no secrets anymore; we see to that.

"If the Arab Federation discovers a new gas, we sell the formula to
each of the other countries. If the Black Republic or China starts a
program of military training or lays the keel of a new battleship, in a
week everyone of the other countries has the complete details.

"We don't sell the information for profit, Vickers, but to finance the
organization."

       *       *       *       *       *

Vickers was stunned. The realization that the Ring was not a hard
grasping organization of thieves, spies and traitors; but an
international group comprising the finest minds and bent on preserving
the peace, left him completely bewildered.

"I don't know what to say," he said. "Of course I'll join you."

"Good." Fralick jumped up, came around the desk with his hand out.
"We'll get you a pardon. It wouldn't do for my son-in-law to be a
fugitive from the ISP." He winked at the others who had crowded about
Vickers, pumping his hand.

It occurred to Vickers that these men were pleased to have him--not in
spite of his mutation, but because of it! They'd even been a little
afraid he might turn them down.

It was a new experience for him, a good experience. He had the sudden
conviction that at last he'd found his place in the world. It made him
feel warm.

The Chinese was saying: "You're a violent man, Vickers, a dangerous
man. We were afraid that you might not see eye to eye with us in our
aims."

"No," Vickers protested, really shocked. "No, I'm not a violent man. I
do what I must and do it as quickly and effectively as I can. But I'm
not violent."

Thorpe's eyes twinkled. Seizing a pencil he wrote something, held it up
for them all to see, at the same time tapping the cast on his jaw.

Vickers couldn't repress his grin. Tani squeezed his hand.

Thorpe had written: "The gods help us all, if he ever does get violent!"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOON OF TREASON ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
