ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Dead-Star Rover, by Robert Abernathy

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Dead-Star Rover

Author: Robert Abernathy

Release Date: March 04, 2021 [eBook #64690]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DEAD-STAR ROVER ***




                          The Dead-Star Rover

                          By ROBERT ABERNATHY

              Only savage engines roamed that arid world,
            charging one another with snarling guns beneath
           those grinding treads. And two puny machine-less
           humans like Torcred and Ladna should die quickly.
          That they suddenly could become the most dangerous
           things alive must surely be some dead god's joke.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Winter 1949.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The terrapin was traveling eighty miles an hour--far too fast for
such uneven country. Over maddeningly repetitive dunes it scudded,
rising with a swoop to each windward slope and hurtling clear of the
ground beyond each wave-like crest, to plunge through the trough in a
hurricane of flying sand.

The wiry little man who crouched tensely, hugged by a padded safety
belt, in the pitching, vibrant interior of the midget combat car,
was impatient, furiously so. Thanks to an unusually stubborn case of
engine trouble, he was a full two hours behind the rest of his troop;
by now they must have sighted the new camping place on the shore of
the Salt Sea. And the blazing sun was already sinking toward the dusty
horizon haze. Torcred the Terrapin came of a people unused to fear--but
his shrewd intelligence, calculating the risks he must run before he
rejoined the others, found the daylight dangers enough and to spare,
and nothing attractive in the thought of an encounter with any of the
things that prowled the desolate plain after the sun went down.

So the terrapin fled at reckless speed westward over the dipping dunes,
and Torcred's deepset irongray eyes, squinting against the glare that
even the polarized glass in the narrow vision slits could only cut
down, were anxious. Under his breath he chided his own nervousness;
probably after all nothing would happen....

       *       *       *       *       *

Midway in the thought it did happen, and with almost catastrophic
suddenness. The black silhouette of a flying thing materialized out
of the sun's glare, diving straight at him. It flattened out and was
gone overhead, while the roar of its passing echoed behind it. And the
terrapin had rocked to the impact of bullets all the more fiercely
driven by the aero's terrific velocity; its armor rang and steel
splinters hummed like wasps inside it.

Torcred slammed down one foot pedal and the terrapin slewed crazily and
slid sidewise for a score of yards, in a cloud of sand that momentarily
hid it from the eyes above. Coming out of the skid he gave full power
to the spinning wheels, operating the throttle with one hand while the
other switched on his radar screen and leaped from it to the firing
control of the turret gun. It was long seconds before the scanning beam
located its flitting target; then, though the terrapin was traveling
in the quick swerves and dashes of a desperately evasive course, the
automatic control held the image reasonably well centered on the
projected crosshairs of the turret gun's sight. The image swelled, grew
wings, as the aero came in in a second howling dive.

Torcred's reflexes, hardly less automatic than his machine's, depressed
the firing button, and the gun's stammering blast numbed his ears,
mingling almost at the same moment with the clang and shriek of steel
on steel as the terrapin took more hits. But the flying enemy leveled
off far higher than before and zoomed away more steeply; its great
advantage had been lost when the first attack failed to cripple or kill.

The Terrapin's eyes burned into the screen as his own wild zigzags
flung him painfully against his safety belt. The aero might let things
go at that.... No, the screen's image expanded again. His finger closed
once more on the firing button.

The winged outline grew with ominous determination. Careless now of the
single gun that rattled defiance, it was coming down for the kill. With
the corner of his eye Torcred saw the vicious puffs of sand that strode
to meet the racing terrapin; he swerved instantly, but in that same
instant the car staggered and spun out of control. He did not hear the
thunderous concussion that stung his face and hands. The forepart of
the roof bowed inward, and there was a knife-like fragment of steel,
inches long, in the cushion almost touching Torcred's ear.

Dimly he realized that his wheels were spinning futilely, the car
canted far over; it had nosed into a dune and half-buried itself. The
fight was over....

But ten, twenty seconds went by and no fresh storm of destruction
burst on him. Incredulously his eyes found the radar screen. It was
still working, and the image that filled it wavered strangely, neither
receding nor coming nearer.

He threw his machine into reverse and opened the throttle; the front
wheels took hold and the terrapin bucked itself free of the sand. Then
Torcred leaned sidewise, recklessly flung open a steel shutter and
looked out.

He blinked, dazzled, at the sweep of desert and bright blue sky before
his eyes found the falling shape, twisting and fluttering as it fell
despite its weight of tons. As he watched, the aero almost leveled
out, teetered on one wing and sideslipped out of sight behind a
distant dune. A cloud of dust sprang up and drifted away, but no smoky
death-pall rose after it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Terrapin shook his dizzy head, and his narrow hawk face hardened.
He pressed the pedals and sent the combat car rolling swiftly toward
the spot that his practised eyes had marked accurately in the midst of
the featureless desert.

The black-and-yellow aero's nose was sunk deep into the loose sand that
had slid down to partly bury the wreck, its blunt tail pointed into
the cloudless sky it had left forever. One wing had been torn off and
hurled yards away, the other was crumpled beneath the slanted fuselage.

The terrapin slowed to a crawl along the crest of the nearest sandhill
as its pilot surveyed the scene. But he was about to wheel away once
more when he noticed the sprawled figure in bulky dark-blue flying
clothes, that lay face down in the shadow of a brown drift.

Deftly Torcred sent the terrapin careening down the slope to halt
close to the motionless enemy. He hesitated briefly, then, shrugging,
unsnapped his belt, wrestled open the almost-jammed door and clambered
out. Dead or stunned, he had to make sure, and there was no harm in
indulging a trifling curiosity.

Under the remote blue curve of the sky, he shrank into himself a
little. It was always so outside the steel shelter of the terrapin in
which he had spent most of his days since childhood; he felt an oddly
naked helplessness. But he looked down with interest on the body, his
hand gripping the haft of the broad-bladed knife at his side. He had
never before seen in flesh and blood a member of the lofty peoples of
the air.

As if roused, the limp form twitched a foot, shivered, and rolled over
with a sigh. A pale face, closed eyes were upturned to the glaring sun
and the startled gaze of the Terrapin. Startled he was, for the face
was a girl's.

She could not have passed twenty. In spite of the heavy coverall worn
against the stratosphere's chill, and a wide strawberry mark where
her left cheek had met the sandy soil, she contrived to be pretty. No
more--but the terrapin women were brown and sturdy and coarse-featured,
hardened by the drudgery of the camps. This girl's face was very white
in the frame of dark hair that escaped the oversize plastic helmet. She
breathed slowly and fitfully, and Torcred guessed at a state of shock;
she might be badly injured.

He shook off an unaccustomed indecision and knelt beside her. His face
was unpleasantly hard as the knife slid from its sheath with a faint
whisper, as he laid its thin edge along the exposed curve of the girl's
throat, where a flutter marked the great artery. One quick slash, she
would never wake....

But it was as if a restraining hand fastened on his wrist. Slowly he
drew back the glittering blade and returned it to its place. He stood
up and scowled down at the still, slight figure, brushing sand savagely
from the knees of his heavy breeches.

Angrily Torcred told himself that he had only to turn and go. The
desert would finish the job, and no one would know that his courage had
failed him. But still he stood and stared, not consciously admitting
his strange desire to know the color of the eyes behind those closed
lids.

They were blue, he saw as they flickered wide without warning. Not cold
sapphires, but the living blue of a desert sky or of electric flame.
They were alive as a small bird's eyes--but of course Torcred had never
seen a bird. Rather, he called the girl a bird, as he called himself a
terrapin.

Still he did not move, even as the bird-girl struggled to a sitting
position and gathered her feet under her. Dismay came into the blue
gaze fixed on him; she half raised a hand as if in defense.

       *       *       *       *       *

And Torcred's determination slipped again. "You are my prisoner," he
announced in a hollow voice that did not sound at all like a victor's.

Without answering, the bird-girl sprang nimbly to her feet; then her
mouth twisted with pain and she swayed dizzily, but her eyes never left
Torcred's expressionless face.

"You are the terrapin?" she gasped. Her voice had the exotic accent of
the bird-people's speech, and in her inflection of the word "terrapin"
rang a contempt that was like a whip across the face. She glanced
swiftly about, at the boat-shaped gray machine that crouched, purring,
like a waiting animal on its six wheels some yards away, then at the
broken wreck that had been her aero. Her eyes went wide with a blue
flame of horror and regret, and her right hand darted to her side.

Torcred exploded from rigidity into action; his feet dug into the sand
as he lunged, and his hand closed on the girl's slender wrist, halting
the sharp point of her dagger an inch above her left breast.

Her free hand struck viciously at his hastily averted face. The
Terrapin ground his teeth and twisted her wrist mercilessly until the
long knife fell among their scuffling feet. Then he thrust the girl
away and set his foot solidly on the weapon, pressing it into the sand.
He glared at her deadwhite face.

"I said you're my prisoner. That means you'll live while I want you to!"

The bird-girl was trembling uncontrollably. "My ship is destroyed," she
said in a stifled voice. "I am already dead. It is the law."

Torcred's black brows knitted in anger--at her and at himself for the
impossible situation into which he had blundered. "Get yourself another
aero," he growled unreasonably, knowing the truth of what she said.
On land or in the air, the code was the same. With destruction of the
fighting machine, the poor, soft being of flesh did best to perish too.
He snapped, "Be quiet and do as I say. Come along!" He half-turned
toward the waiting terrapin.

The girl stiffened. "Well!" she said on a note of cold, controlled
scorn. "You crawlers keep slaves?"

That was absolutely untrue, and was exactly what was bothering the
Terrapin. His people kept no slaves and took no prisoners. He barked,
beside himself: "You will obey me! Or stay here and die--slowly--of
thirst."

Her lips parted as if to retort, but her gaze slipped past Torcred to
sweep the remote horizon and the dun wilderness that stretched to it
without path or landmark. In the two expanses of sand and sky there was
no life visible. The thin shoulders under the heavy flying suit seemed
to sag.

"All right, terrapin," she said with weary disdain. "You win, for the
time being."


                                  II

The little machine held two well enough; married terrapins on the march
carried their wives beside them and children stowed somehow and anyhow
in the rear compartment. Torcred snapped the catches of his safety
belt and motioned the girl to do the same; when she was slow to obey,
he leaned over and fastened the belt himself, drawing it painfully
tight about her slim waist. Then the engine's hum rose as he opened the
throttle; the wheels spun and gripped, and the terrapin bounded away,
bearing westward over the dunes. As it picked up speed Torcred was
touched by the familiar sense of power and mastery in the deep throb of
the motor and the ready surge of the armored car. But he brooded darkly
as mountain and desert rolled past in monotonous succession, as the
minutes heaped themselves into hours....

The sun was a redhot disc descending into a bath of fire in the west.
And minute by minute the angry light crept higher up the sky and
assumed new forms, clouds and streamers, for it was a mighty redlit
pall of dust that was ever higher and nearer to the rushing terrapin.

Torcred glanced sidelong at the girl beside him. Her face was even
whiter under the harsh light of sunset, her eyes closed beneath long
lashes. Watching that smooth, tragic face, Torcred realized again
how young she was; he shook his head somberly. The air-people were a
strange race, who sent their young females on missions fit only for
grown men. The terrapins were far more sensible.

But no terrapin woman had the strange beauty of this alien creature
from the sky....

Presently he said, "Look. Ahead."

The girl's eyes opened listlessly. They were dark-blue, opaque. But
faint interest stirred them as she scanned the view ahead.

The flaming dust cloud had climbed to the very zenith; the smell of it
was in the terrapin, its feel between the teeth. Miles ahead across the
desert, a dim encarmined shimmer marked the waters of the Salt Sea.

Nearer, but still far ahead, a black stream was moving across the
rippled plain at right angles to the terrapin's course. It was without
beginning or end, pouring steadily from north to south. A distant
vibration seemed to shake the earth beneath the sway and swoop of the
moving vehicle.

"The trailer herd," said Torcred. "Thousands on thousands of them,
moving south with the sun that feeds them. The fall migration is
farther west this year, and they are coming in greater numbers than any
of our troop can remember."

The girl said nothing. He added irritably, "You understand--there will
be good hunting."

She shocked him by laughing. "Is that all you think of?" she inquired
mockingly. "Good hunting--a full stomach and a full fuel tank. You
crawlers lead poor, empty lives."

"We don't crawl," said Torcred shortly, eyes fixed on the speedometer
that registered a hundred miles an hour.

The bird-girl laughed again. "You know so little, you earthbound
creatures," she taunted. "You've never known the joy of flight--to
climb up and into the clear bright stratosphere, and see the Earth with
all its secrets unroll below you.... _You_ creep from place to place
and cower in your camps, but we range farther than you dream, and know
the world and all its peoples that fly and swim and crawl and burrow.
And we are the highest race of all."

"Higher than the buzzards?" asked Torcred.

She hesitated, then said defiantly, "Of course! Those evil things are
huge and powerful, but we'll defeat them in the end, never doubt it.
And then--we will have the rule of the sky, which is the rule of the
Earth."

She sounded very certain, and Torcred could think of no adequate
counter-argument. He said brutally, "We? Who do you mean? _Your_ wings
are clipped, bird!"

Then unexpected remorse stung him as he saw how the girl shrank into
herself, how the brief glow of enthusiasm left her face. She made no
answer, and Torcred too fell sullenly silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

In silence he closed the throttle and the hurtling terrapin slowed.
Close ahead, now, the trailer herd was an amorphous black river in the
gathering dusk. Earth and air shook to its thunder, the rumbling of
countless wheels and engines and couplings and the strident bleating of
thousands of horns as the vast herd jostled and protested.

Closer and closer to the flank of the moving mass rolled the little
terrapin, darting over the crests of the dunes and stealing along under
their cover. The girl's eyes grew wide at the glimpses they had of that
dark dangerous-looking stream; she seemed to flinch from its pounding
clamor.

Torcred smiled grimly as he brought the terrapin to a poised halt
half-sheltered by a low swell. A scant hundred yards away the migrating
trailers rolled obliviously past, one close behind the other, huge
box-like monsters on wheels behind a tiny cab. Torcred knew their ways
of old; the trailer sections housed women and children, who tended
the apparatus that made food, fuel, and ammunition from sunlight and
water and air and the minerals extracted from the sterile soil. The
trailer-men were drivers and gunners; but the great machines were
clumsy and ill-armed, finding safety against the fierce mechanical
predators chiefly in their numbers.

The Terrapin waited only for moments; then he opened his throttle wide
and sent the little combat car swerving into the heart of the herd.

All around rolled rumbling iron giants; the clank of couplings, the
roaring of unmuffled engines were deafening. A hooting of furious horns
arose as the terrapin darted and zigzagged between the moving units of
the herd. But there was no blaze of gunfire.

"So we hunt them," Torcred flung over his shoulder at the breathless
girl. "They can't shoot when we're in among them; we disable one and
shelter behind it until the herd passes on...."

The terrapin dashed through narrowing gaps, slowed and spurted again,
as Torcred threaded his way skilfully on an oblique course across the
roaring stream. At last he saw open ground ahead; he grinned exultantly
and put on a final burst of speed that carried him into the clear. The
little car swooped with a sickening rush into a shallow valley, and
behind it thundering flashes leaped along the flank of the trailer herd
and bullets exploded around or ricocheted screaming overhead.

As he slowed to a more moderate pace under cover of the farther dunes,
Torcred turned, still grinning, to the bird-girl. "That," he commented,
"was the dangerous part."

She shivered slightly. "I was afraid," she admitted candidly.

"That's hardly as simple as attacking a mere crawling terrapin from the
air, eh?"

The girl turned her face away. "That was necessary, terrapin ... I
passed my fledgling examination only two days ago; it was my second
flight beyond the safety zone. The novice must defeat some machine of
prey in single combat, before he is accepted."

"And if he fails?" Torcred's eyes were fixed ahead, where a pale light
was reflected by the ground that was flat now and gleamed whitely,
encrusted with salt.

"And if he--or she--fails," the girl's voice dropped low, "it is the
last time." A sob came into her voice. "Even if I could go back to my
people, I would be degraded to menial labor or breeding--could never
fly again."

Torcred felt pity for her despite his prejudices; and at the same time
her words recalled his own worries, and he frowned blackly. The girl
mistook his expression for an indication that she had somehow said too
much, and she sank back into brooding silence.

She glanced up only when the car's wheels ground to a stop on the salty
crust, and Torcred, with a relaxing sigh, was already unsnapping his
safety belt and switching off the panting motor. The girl saw flames
and shadows amid which black figures moved, and she shrank back in
fright, uncomprehending. As the Terrapin flung open his door, mingled
sound of clanging metal and hissing fire rushed in to increase her
confusion.

He paused momentarily; his expression was unreadable as he gazed on her
white face.

"Stay where you are and make no noise," his low voice rasped sternly.
"I'll come back."

Torcred closed the door firmly and heard its lock click. The girl,
if she foolishly wanted to escape, probably could not find the catch
inside, and there was nothing she could hurt herself with if she still
felt suicidal. There at least she would be safe from prying eyes,
until he could untangle the tumult of unaccustomed emotions that were
struggling within him. A terrapin had only one place to himself, the
interior of the fighting machine--those with families, of course, knew
no such word as privacy.

He turned, straightening his back resolutely, and advanced into the
midst of the terrapin camp.


                                  III

Spaced shadows resolved themselves into a double rank of parked
terrapins, forming concentric circles about the encampment. Such was
the pattern of a terrapin camp from time immemorial; it was safety
against attack by other raiders of the wasteland, and on each day one
ring could go forth to hunt, the other remain in place to guard the
women, the young, and the booty.

Even here the warm night air quivered ever so faintly with sound from
the east, the endless motion of the great trailer herd. By morning it
would have passed, and the hunters would follow it southward.

Within the great circle the women and older children were busy now,
while the men lounged about, talking quietly, boasting perfunctorily
of the day's deeds. The first day's hunt had been only a hit-and-run
affair at twilight, but in the midst torches flared sputteringly over
the remains of dismantled trailers; there were neat piles of steel
beam-lengths and undamaged armor plate, and sprawling heaps of metal
scrap that would be abandoned when the troop rolled south. To one side
a red glow came from the maw of a small furnace, melting aluminum to
be made into castings; the terrapins did not smelt steel, leaving that
to the giant scavenger machines that followed the herds at a more
respectful distance. Fuel, food, and usable ammunition had naturally
been transferred first of all from the captured trailers to the tanks
and storage compartments of the terrapins.

From the shadows of the inner circle a voice hailed Torcred by name,
and its owner came out into the light to meet him--a short man,
unusually plump for a terrapin, with heavy black eyebrows that seemed
pasted high on his round bald forehead, giving him a look of perpetual
astonishment.

He greeted the newcomer effusively. "My dear Torcred! We came very near
giving you up! And from the look of your machine, you must have had a
narrow squeak."

Torcred frowned imperceptibly. It seemed an evil omen that he should
be met by the only one among his fellow-terrapins whom he actively
disliked--Helsed, the talker, who was always close to the chief's ear
in council, but far from his side in the battle.

"That's right," admitted Torcred curtly, and started to brush past
the other and his brimming questions. But he found himself face to
face with another terrapin who had risen from the shadow, a taller man
whose hair shaded from the usual black into gray, and whose face was
permanently lined in a stern expression of command. He was Vazcled, the
chief. Torcred fell back a step and inclined his head in salute.

"What happened to you?" inquired Vazcled quietly.

"I was attacked," said the younger man with reluctance.

"By what?"

"An aero."

Even the chief's face showed surprise, and the listening Helsed's
eyebrows went up steeply. Vazcled said, "You are lucky to have escaped
so easily."

"I didn't escape. I shot it down."

Helsed exclaimed aloud and stared at his brother-terrapin enviously.
The chief's withered lips smiled. "Such victories are rare," he said
approvingly. "I know of only two or three in the past fifty years. You
must tell us the story tonight, and Hiyik can make a song of it.... Did
you bring any trophy from the wreck?"

Torcred licked his lips nervously. "No," he said. "It fell a long way
off...."

"Well, no matter," the chief shrugged. "We will find the spot on
the back trail." Already--Helsed, the eager newsbearer, had dashed
off without waiting for details--they were surrounded by a growing
audience, afire to know more about Torcred's almost unheard-of exploit.

       *       *       *       *       *

Torcred, dazed, found himself sitting atop someone else's machine,
relating his battle with the aero to an enthusiastic mob of his
fellow-warriors. The terrapins lost their customary reserved poise and
grew festive; while Torcred almost choked on the lies with which he
ended his narrative, they pressed food and drink on him and made him go
back over the most stirring parts. Then Hiyik the poet had his turn,
and retold the story in improvised verses, his chanting voice mingling
with the hiss and clangor of the workshop in the midst of the circle on
whose rim the warriors were gathered.

But the hero of it all sat moody, well-nigh oblivious, his brow
wrinkling painfully from time to time. The thoughts he was thinking
hurt. For what he was planning was treason, what he had already done
was treason--more than that, sacrilege, abomination, a trampling of the
laws that kept the diverse races of Earth eternally apart.... Lesser
breeds might hold such laws lightly--but not the proud terrapins.
For them all other peoples were enemies, or prey, or vermin beneath
contempt.

The bird-folk were enemies. And the crime of giving aid and comfort to
an enemy deserved the ultimate in punishment.

Torcred's mouth tightened grimly at the thought, and the logically
following reflection that he, Torcred the Terrapin, must have gone
quite insane. But even here, in the midst of his noisy comrades, he
could not forget the glimpse of a strange beauty that had fallen out
of the sky to destroy him--if not by the swift vengeance of outraged
tradition, then by returning and returning to haunt him all his days.

With a chill he realized that the chief was watching him thoughtfully,
and he strove to give his features a dignified impassivity appropriate
to the modesty of the feted hero.

The face of Helsed, hugging the spotlight as always, was at his elbow,
wearing a vapid smile which Torcred's hypersensitized suspicions saw
as a knowing smirk. And in reality, he knew, the fat terrapin's air
of loud thickheadedness masked a sharp scheming brain--and Helsed
hated him. Helsed had talked and toadied his way into the graces of
the council of elders and the chief, and he had hopes--the latter's
successor must be chosen soon from among the younger men. And in
the taciturn Torcred he saw his most dangerous rival, for the young
warrior's deeds spoke for him.

Sunk in thought, Torcred hardly realized the passage of time or that
the gathering was breaking up. Hiyik had ceased his recitative. One by
one the terrapins yawned, stretched, and moved off toward their own
vehicles; it was late, and tomorrow, first full day of the great hunt,
would be hard. The noisy labor in the camp's center went on unabated.

Torcred forced himself to yawn and stretch as elaborately as the
others, to rise unhurriedly to his feet. His plans, such as they were,
were complete; during the next day's farflung maneuvers and attacks
on the trailer herd, he should be able to slip off unnoticed and,
traveling fast, reach the vicinity of the aeros' nearest eyrie. There
he would leave the bird-girl. Whatever her fate then, she would be
alive among her own kind; and perhaps later she would be grateful to
the terrapin who had befriended her. Beyond that his thoughts did not
go....

As he started to walk away, the chief's voice rooted him to the spot.

"Wait a moment. I understand your machine was damaged; perhaps it needs
immediate repairs."

       *       *       *       *       *

Torcred turned swiftly toward him. "No!" he exclaimed hastily. "There's
not much damage--a few bullet holes, a dent. No use bothering with it
now."

"You never can tell." Vazcled rose; despite the hour's lateness the
wiry old man seemed untouched by fatigue. The bright eyes that dwelt
on Torcred's face held only friendly concern. "You are confident now;
but a failure of mechanism can betray the bravest. Let me look your
terrapin over and judge for myself."

The chief's wish was a command. Torcred's spirit quailed as, walking
like an automaton, he led the way. He derived a little comfort from
noting that Helsed had already disappeared; when worst came to worst,
he would at least be spared, in the moment of disaster, the sight of
his enemy's triumph.... And he could still hope that the chief would
content himself with an outside examination.

Vazcled studied without speaking the stove-in nose of the terrapin.
His experienced hands felt out the damage that was invisible in the
uncertain light; he clicked his tongue.

"That's no dent," he said at last. "You ran head-on into a shell. I'd
better look at it from inside; open the door."

With wooden fingers Torcred produced the key. Silently he handed it to
the chief; he did not think, in that whirling moment, of the symbolism
of the action, but Vazcled stared at him curiously before turning to
the door. For a terrapin to surrender the key of his vehicle was a
gesture of abject self-humiliation.

The simple lock clicked. Torcred fell back a step, his shoulders
hunched tensely and his hand convulsively closing on the haft of his
dagger.

The door swung open. The chief fumbled and switched on the inside
light; he grunted softly, squinting up at the fore part of the roof.
Past him Torcred could see the whole cramped interior of the armored
car; it was empty.

Across the chaos of his mind fluttered one clear thought; the girl had
escaped. And he was at once limp with relief and taut with a new and
formless fear, mixed with an odd empty sense of loss.

Vazcled grunted again, emerging. Pressing the key into Torcred's damp
palm, he said pointedly, "Keep that."

Matter-of-factly he added. "You need repairs. Drive into the center,
then look up somebody with room for an extra sleeper. You won't be
called for guard duty; you've earned a good night's rest." The chief's
wrinkled hand rested affectionately on the young man's shoulder, but to
Torcred's imagination it burned like fire.

His mumbled response was swallowed by a sudden burst of noise from the
outer periphery. A voice and then voices cried out confusedly, and then
a light blazed, silhouetting the parked terrapins. And Torcred was
already running among them, but even as he ran his world was crashing
and crumbling about his ears, and he knew he had been most cruelly
mocked by fate.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the edge of the encampment a space of sand was white in the glare
of lights. White too was the face of the girl who swayed, fast in the
grip of two men. Others pressed round with flashing knives, and more
warriors, half-dressed and sleepy-eyed, appeared to reinforce them.
They looked questioningly at one another; somehow the appearance of
a lone alien being, with no machine in evidence, was more sinisterly
alarming than would have been the onslaught of a horde of armed and
armored juggernauts.

Torcred halted and stood rigid, his gaze stabbing into the knot of men.
And before him they opened out, pushing the girl to the fore, as if
in accusation. The next moment he realized that that was because the
chief stood beside him. And he saw that one of the bird-girl's arms
was pinioned by a sentry, and that Helsed, puffing himself with menace
grasped the other.

"Silence!" roared Vazcled's voice of command. "Bring her nearer. Where
did she come from? What is she?"

No one answered at once. Torcred's eyes were on the bird-girl. For a
moment her gaze met his, then she looked past him. On her pale face
was written the fierce pride he had seen before, and he knew she could
never betray him.

"Shall we make her answer?" Helsed grinned ingratiatingly at the
chief, and as if in demonstration of the methods he proposed, his grip
tightened on the girl's arm, twisting. She winced and closed her eyes,
making no sound.

And Torcred, his remnants of caution whirled away like chips on a flood
tide of fury, was on the torturer in one catlike spring. He would have
used his knife, but he had forgotten it; his fist, with all his weight
behind it, crashed squarely into Helsed's hateful grin. Helsed was
hurled backward and rolled over limply on the sand.

Torcred stood watching him, poised to renew the attack. The other man
who had been holding the girl involuntarily released her and stepped
back, leaving her standing alone beside Torcred--but she too shrank
away from him; his berserk rage had made him terrible. The surrounding
warriors hesitated, and behind them, from among the cars or from
vantages atop them, the women and children stared open-mouthed.

In the stunned silence, Torcred could hear the whisper of night wind,
and from far away the faint mutter of gunfire as nocturnal machines of
prey still took their toll of the trailer herd. He had other random
impressions: the feel of the soft sand underfoot, the hard brightness
of the stars overhead, the odor of fuel and heated metal that hung
about the camp.

Then he turned, straightening: his eyes sought out Vazcled beyond the
ring of men who were warily beginning to close on him. And he laughed,
having cast away his world.

"See, chief!" he shouted. "See, terrapins! I brought home a trophy,
after all!"


                                  IV

It was a red dawn, for the sun rose behind the dust that still hovered
over the track of the southbound herd. In the west the sky was dark
blue above the flatly shimmering water of the great dead sea.

The whole terrapin tribe, save for the indispensable lookouts, was
assembled in the open space of the ringed camp. A hush lay on them as
they gazed on the prisoner in their midst--honored last night among his
peers, this morning guilty of hideous treason. There was no need for
trial; it only remained to condemn him.

A cool, salt breeze blew from over the lake and stirred Torcred's
tousled black hair. His gray eyes were bloodshot and staring.

Helsed was there, insinuating himself into the council of elders at the
chief's elbow, and mumbling implacable hatred past swollen lips and
missing teeth. His clearest and oftenest-repeated word was "Death!"

Vazcled's face was set in sorrowful lines; there was regret and a
hopeless question in the old man's eyes as they met Torcred's.

A small voice beside Torcred asked, "What are they going to do,
terrapin?"

He half-turned and really saw the girl for the first time that morning.
She was composed, her blue eyes unafraid.

"I don't know," muttered Torcred. "This has never happened before--not
in anyone's memory." In his mind were horrific legends heard in
childhood, but he tried not to repeat those even to himself.

Vazcled's first words were to the girl. He asked, "Who are you,
stranger? What is your race?"

She returned his gaze, decided to answer. "My name is Ladna, and I
am of the race of birds." Torcred realized that he had not known her
name before; it had not occurred to him that such remote beings used
names....

"Who brought you to this place?"

The girl's lips tightened; deliberately she turned her back on the
chief and stared away over the lake. She seemed oblivious of all the
hostile eyes around--in particular the swarthy faces of the terrapin
women reflected unpleasant ideas as they greedily ogled this creature
of the air.

"No matter," Vazcled said heavily. "The criminal stands
self-accused.... Have you any explanation of your conduct, Torcred the
Terrapin?"

Torcred shook his head dumbly.

"Then--" the chief turned to the elders, "there is question only of the
punishment."

Helsed thrust himself forward eagerly. "Death!" he mouthed. "Such a
crime deserves no less!"

The chief looked at him coldly. "Did I ask your advice?" he inquired
bitingly.

Helsed beat a retreat. "I am sorry.... But it is true that I have a
special grievance in this matter...."

"Be quiet!" snapped Vazcled.

The oldest member of the council spoke, and the rest listened
respectfully. "Everyone knows the story of Fuwu, who took to himself a
dragon woman. He was cast out of the tribe according to the ritual, and
left to die in the desert with his seductress--a sentence lighter and
heavier than mere death, and one which did not stain the hands of the
tribe with the blood of a terrapin."

The other judges nodded in token of their remembrance and approval of
the precedent. The chief saw their decision, and faced the prisoners
again. At this curt command the guards seized Torcred and thrust him
forward unresisting. Vazcled, knife in hand, looked him in the eyes,
his face a stern formal mask. He intoned:

"Torcred the Terrapin, your sin is past forgiveness. I pronounce you
outcast and abhorred; none shall take notice of you any more, either
to help or hurt. You are no longer one of us; we give you to the
wilderness. Torcred, no longer Terrapin, I mark you as such!"

The knife point rose and made two quick motions. Torcred did not
flinch; on his forehead was a tau cross in oozing drops of blood. The
chief bent, took a pinch of sand, and rubbed it into the wound to make
sure that it would scar--if the victim lived that long.

Vazcled turned away. "Cast them out!" he ordered over his shoulder, to
the guarding warriors.

"The girl too?" Helsed asked hastily; his eyes lingered.

"Of course!" rasped the chief. "It is the tradition--and what else
should we do?"

Helsed licked his battered lips nervously. "Of course," he agreed.
"What else?"


                                   V

Torcred sat, head sunk limply in his hands, on the white salt beach
facing the lifeless sea. The throb of motors and swirl of dust behind
the departing terrapins had died down in the south; instead of hunting
today as planned from this camp, they had left the spot that had become
accursed. And Torcred sat numb with despair, passively waiting for the
end.

Near him Ladna, the bird-girl rose to her feet. She looked in the other
direction, out over the lifeless waste of sand, and then at the man's
slumped, motionless figure.

Her voice was hard and scorn-edged. "So--a terrapin shorn of his armor
is less than a bird clipped of her wings?"

Torcred raised his head and looked at her glassy-eyed. "You heard," he
growled. "I'm not a terrapin any more."

"You'll always be a terrapin to me," she said. "A miserable, beaten
crawler."

He stared without understanding. Around them was the thirsty, deadly
desert; the sun was hot already, his mouth was dry, and the poisonous
sea lapped mockingly at its flat shore. The girl had been ready to die
when her aero crashed--but now her slender body was vibrant with the
will to live.

But her bitter words could not fail of effect. Torcred stumbled erect
and snapped, "I'm not beaten until I'm dead! But--what chance do we
have?"

She accepted the _we_ with a faint smile, and said in a softer tone,
"There is an aero eyrie--not my own, but one with which we have
friendly relations--about seventy miles east of here, in those blue
mountains you can see. Perhaps we can make it there on foot."

"That's all very well for you," said Torcred somberly. "But for
me--what could I expect from your people?"

"We are not so narrow-minded as the terrapins. We see more and tolerate
more. You can be taken in and given tasks to perform in return for
your keep." She frowned at his doubt, and explained further, "Some
day--soon--we birds will rule all the Earth. And we do not want to wipe
out all the other races; we'll preserve them to do the jobs that must
be done on the ground, and all of our people will be free to fly."

The picture of conquest she painted so naively repelled Torcred, reared
in the terrapin tradition of a barbaric individualistic freedom. "You
offer me slavery," he said harshly.

"No, no," protested Ladna. "According to our law, you will be free to
leave if you wish." He snorted. "And--" she hesitated, "I will be in
the same condition, now that I have lost my wings."

Torcred stared at the ground, shrugged. "It's better than dying
here--perhaps. And we may not make it. How fast can one travel on foot?"

"Ten miles an hour?" the girl hazarded.

"Less than that, I think. It will be a long way--and I know of no water
holes." Ladna shook her head at the question in his glance. "It may be
impossible to walk that far without water; I never heard of anyone's
doing it. But we can try."

       *       *       *       *       *

The blue flat-topped mountains still shimmered unreally, far away as
ever, across the heated plain. The sun was at its height and the sand
was blistering. The two huddled in the scant shadow of a dune. Both
were sunburned, maddeningly thirsty, and discouraged. They could not
have covered more than a dozen miles before the heat had driven them to
seek shelter.

They talked very little; as the burning midday dragged on, Ladna slept
for a time. When she woke she looked round feverishly, and a moan
escaped her lips.

"What's the matter?" asked Torcred.

"I was dreaming," the girl said in a choked voice, and, shockingly, two
tears rolled down her cheeks.

"Don't cry," ordered Torcred harshly. "We've got to conserve all
possible moisture."

She bit her lip, and no more tears came.

When the shadows lengthened somewhat they set out again to the east.
During the morning they had seen some signs of life--had flattened
themselves on the ground while a cavalcade of fire-breathing dragons
passed one by one along the crest of a distant ridge, the long snouts
of their flame projectors thrusting before them, and had skirted a
colony of the queer crusty pillbox people who had sacrificed mobility
for an almost invulnerable security. But during the long afternoon the
desert seemed utterly empty. Only at dusk they saw, far over head,
three vast black shapes flying in wedge formation, and the drone of
motors beat down out of the hollow bowl of the sky.

"Buzzards!" whispered the girl, and shrank against the sand.

Torcred knew that the buzzards were the aero people's hereditary foes,
but that did not seem adequate to explain the bright bitterness of
hatred in the girl's eyes.... He was about to ask a question, when his
eyes caught movement in the near distance and he froze, mouth open.

A hundred paces ahead on the way they had been going, atop a low mound,
stood a figure--a man in queer garments, not identifiable with any of
the races Torcred knew. When the Terrapin tried to make out his face,
the man seemed to waver in the fading light; then he raised a hand in a
gesture beckoning them toward him.

The bird-girl, back to the apparition, looked wide-eyed wonder. Torcred
croaked wordlessly and pointed; and with the motion the stranger was
gone from the ridge.

"What's the matter?" asked Ladna puzzledly.

"Nothing," Torcred managed to get out. "The shadows play tricks...."

As they crossed the rise, Torcred halted to tie a bootlace that didn't
need tying. There were no tracks in the soft sand. Torcred remembered
fearfully what he had heard of the visions that heralded death by
thirst--but even sane people saw things that weren't there, such as the
phantom lakes that had mocked them in the midday heat.

But he had been sure that vision was looking at him....

Two or three miles further on, it was almost dark. Torcred sank wearily
down in the lee of a high ridge. "We'd better stop here. Perhaps a
night's sleep will give us strength."

The girl sighed. "I think we will die on this desert, terrapin."

Torcred felt a stirring of the anger her use of that word always roused
in him. But he said only, "We've covered perhaps a third of the way.
Two more days, then."

He remembered that pebbles in the mouth ease thirst; they tried that,
and it helped a little. Then they scooped hollows in the sand for
sleep. Ladna wriggled out of the heavy flying suit that, stickily
uncomfortable as it was, had protected her from the sun. The sleeveless
shirt and shorts she wore beneath clung damply to her; even through
a haze of exhaustion Torcred was stirred by the sight of her slender
body, her mildly rounded breasts and long straight legs....

He slept like a log, and woke in the dim pearly light before dawn,
still tired, his mouth like a furnace.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a moment before he realized that the bird-girl's piercing
whisper had wakened him, and sat up abruptly. Spots danced before his
eyes; he felt her hand tighten in warning on his arm.

Then he saw by that ghostly light, not a hundred yards away, a thing of
nightmare.

It was a huge gray monster of metal, a moving fortress going steadily
forward on endless treads that hardly dented the soft sand beneath
it, though it must have weighed half a hundred tons. Shod with
silicone-rubber, it rolled in an unreal silence, the purr of its engine
scarcely audible in the early hush, past the two frightened watchers
under the dune, and vanished over another crest.

The girl still clutched Torcred's arm, finding perhaps some flimsy
reassurance in the resilient hardness of his tensed muscles. "What was
it?" she gasped.

"That was a panzer," Torcred informed her in a low voice. "A big
relative of the terrapins, that prowls the desert alone, by night. It
carries a crew of three to six, can see in the dark and move without a
sound. It's one of the most formidable land machines in the world."

Ladna drew a shuddering breath. "I hope it doesn't come back."

"Don't worry. I told you it was nocturnal--at this hour it's hunting a
good safe spot to lie up for the day."

The girl was wearily pulling on her coveralls; her fire-blue eyes were
clouded with hopelessness as they gazed into the gray dawn. "Perhaps it
would have been better if it had seen us--better than what's ahead of
us."

Torcred did not answer; he was frowning in thought. Suddenly he rose to
his feet--wincing a little as he put his weight on them; with gentle
firmness he turned the girl around and faced her toward the west,
suggesting, "Let's go back a little way."

"Back! Are you crazy, terrapin?"

"Remember the wreck of an armadillo we saw about a quarter of a mile
back? I want to get something there."

"That wreck was years old," sniffed Ladna. "There couldn't be any
supplies left in it."

"I have an idea," said Torcred. Then, as he saw her unyielding
disbelief, "I intend to capture the panzer."

And he trudged off purposefully to the west. The girl followed, still
protesting in an undertone, as all their argument had been carried
on. "You _are_ sunstruck! That monster--and we've not got so much as
a knife--You might as well try to tear down that mountain peak," she
pointed toward a distant blue height, wreathed in cottony clouds, "with
your bare hands."

"Maybe I will," said the Terrapin.

       *       *       *       *       *

The smashed armadillo had long since been stripped of usable parts by
the desert's scavengers. The remaining wreckage was widely strewn,
half-buried in the sand and eaten by rust.

Torcred searched with a grim intensity, tugging at the projecting
steel ribs. Some were deeply buried, others too badly bent, still
others too short. At last he found what he was looking for; a narrow
T-beam, six straight feet of alloy steel, light but tremendously
strong. He hefted it with satisfaction.

"You don't intend to attack the panzer with that!" exclaimed Ladna.

"I do," said Torcred. He looked into her wide blue eyes for a moment,
then pointed down at something that had been disturbed when he pried
loose the beam. A chalk-white skull with empty eyes. He kicked at it,
and it crumbled. "Of such are we made, bird-girl. A fragile framework
compared with the machines'. But alive, we have intelligence, and with
intelligence and this weapon I mean to take the panzer."

They tramped eastward again, following their own tracks, under a sun
already growing hot. After a while the girl asked in a meek voice, "How
can you hope to do it?"

Torcred smiled inwardly at the impression his--largely
assumed--confidence had made. He answered, "This morning I noticed some
of the thing's weaknesses."

"It didn't look weak to me."

"In the first place, its guns are set high on that huge frame--above
the housing of the treads. They couldn't hit a man standing right
beside it. And I think I can get that close to it, because it will
be resting now, the crew asleep--or one of them may be watching, but
he can't watch all ways at once. There will be automatic alarms, of
course, but I don't think they'll respond to anything as small and
harmless as a lone man."

Ladna drew breath sharply. "Perhaps you're right--But even so, what
then? You can't dent its armor with that bar, and it can simply move
away and shoot you down!"

"It has another weak point. It runs on caterpillar tracks--that is,
really, on wheels turning inside an endless belt that gives a wider
basis of support. But if any sizable, hard object finds its way between
wheel and track--"

He paused significantly, and the bird-girl's eyes met his in a luminous
dawn of understanding and hope.

They had no trouble finding the trail of the panzer. As he scanned
those yard-wide tracks, paralleling each other ten feet apart,
Torcred's grip tightened on his T-beam; it did not seem quite so thick
and heavy now, against all those tons of rolling metal might.

But he had boasted recklessly, and he was going through with it if it
killed him.


                                  VI

Stealthily they crept along the trail in the direction the monster had
taken, lying prone to peer with immense caution over the wave-crest of
each dune it had breached in crossing.

Beyond the sixth or the seventh crest, it was there. Lying still in
a hollow of the sand, its gray paint blending with the drab earth to
make it almost invisible from the air--and its radar alarms, no doubt,
keeping watch for any moving threat. Encased in armor almost to the
ground, over the great treads, and its three rounded turrets astare
with guns.

At first glimpse Torcred jerked his head back like the extinct land
reptile whose namesake he was. His palms grew sweaty and his insides
quivered. If he had been alone, he might have slid quietly down the
slope and stolen away, leaving his T-beam behind him. But he heard
Ladna's quickened breathing at his back, and knew she knew he had seen
the panzer.

Before he could check her she had wriggled up beside him and peered
over the edge. When she drew back her face was shades paler beneath its
peeling sunburn. Her lips framed words: "Are you going to try?"

Torcred nodded, jaw set. "You stay here," he hissed, and, gripping his
weapon, began to slither over the crest of the dune.

When he was on the far side and nothing had happened, he felt
reasonably sure he had passed below the horizon of its radar. But he
continued to crawl, eyes fixed on the giant enemy, watching for the
first stir of motion about it that would be followed by a smoky blast
of death.

Halfway there--Almost there--He reached the edge of the panzer's
shadow. Then he distinctly heard a low burring sound from inside it.
Alarm! A magnetic mine detector, probably, tripped by the metal beam;
Torcred realized that even as he flung himself forward in a scrambling
rush that carried him the rest of the way.

The driver must have been alert. Even as Torcred caught himself with a
hand against the gray steel flank, the muffled motor throbbed into life
and the great machine surged forward.

Torcred ran stooping beside it, eyes measuring the gap between armored
housing and racing tread. Seconds to live if he missed--already his
lungs were bursting and the great gray side was slipping past. With
both hands he drove the T-beam straight into that gap.

It was wrenched from his hands, its end snapped off and hurled spinning
with terrific force. Then a grinding shriek of tormented metal, and the
panzer's vast mass shook and wheeled half round in a storm of sand as
the jammed tread stopped and slid.

Almost before the machine had lurched to a full halt with a tremendous
clank and rattle, Torcred had snatched up the broken end of his bar and
was swarming up its side.

In a moment he was perched atop it within easy reach of the single
exit port, leaning against the smooth warm steel, feet braced solidly
against the tread housing. A quick glance assured him that there were
no vision slits giving a view of the panzer's back to those inside. He
set himself and waited, controlling his labored breathing.

The wait was not overlong. The panzer-men, seeing no attacker outside,
but having heard their alarm and found their machine inexplicably
crippled an instant later, had no choice but to come out and
investigate.

       *       *       *       *       *

The port-cover swung aside, and a man's crash-helmeted head and
gray-clad shoulders emerged, back to Torcred. The Terrapin struck
viciously and dented the helmet; almost before its top slid out of
sight, he vaulted after it into the opening, disregarding the ladder.

[Illustration: _Torcred struck viciously, denting the man's helmet._]

He landed in a tangle of arms and legs--the man he had stunned sprawled
atop another who struggled to free himself. Torcred sprang clear and,
across the cramped central compartment of the panzer, faced a third
gray-clad man with a drawn knife.

Incredulity and fright were written large on the panzer-man's face. Out
of sheer desperation he lunged forward in a stabbing rush; but he was
no knife-fighter, and the two-foot length of steel in Torcred's hands
was a far superior weapon. The knife flew wide and its wielder stumbled
back, nursing a bruised forearm.

Another figure appeared in the narrow door forward and stared at the
scene with popping eyes--the driver, no doubt. Torcred greeting him
with a ferocious grin and swung his club whistling back and forth. He
looked and felt invincible.

Then Ladna's voice behind him screamed, "Torcred! Look out!"

He whirled, and the knife-blade gashed his shoulder instead of sinking
into his back. Then Torcred struck a two-handed blow and felt bone
give way beneath it. He took a couple of steps back from the crumpled
body of the panzer-man who had unluckily disentangled himself from his
unconscious comrade, and set his back against a solid bulkhead; on his
face was still the savage grin that had frozen the driver in his tracks.

The bird-girl dropped lightly from the ladder and came to his side,
scooping up the knife that was red with Torcred's blood. Her shining
eyes reflected his fierce elation of victory.

Torcred realized that if he lost time his psychological advantage might
go with it. He snapped at the two remaining panzer-men, his voice
rasping strangely from his dry throat, "Quick! Do you want to live?"

They stared at him dumbly; it was almost beyond their power to grasp
that this bloodstained, primitive being had got inside their defenses,
that the far-ranging guns whose breeches thrust into the compartment
were useless.

Torcred took a step toward them, swinging his bar ominously. The man
who was clutching his right arm asked sullenly, "What are you? What do
you want?"

"I am Torcred," and he added with brief thought, "the Terrible. And we
want very little from you--food, water, weapons from your stores. You
can keep your lumbering panzer; we've got no use for it." The two men
exchanged fearful glances, sure now they had to do with a mad creature.
He gave them no chance to think it out. "Right now, we want to look
around in peace. Ladna! Find something and tie them up."

The girl, dagger in hand, opened the door of the rear compartment; a
whimper of terror came from the darkened interior, where two women and
an indeterminate number of offspring hugged one another in paralyzed
panic. Ladna spoke to them with a soothing softness that amazed
Torcred, rummaged inside and came out with a coil of strong wire. The
solitary panzer, an economy in itself, carried a little of everything.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under the menace of Torcred's club, the terrorized panzer-men
submitted. Then the two invaders found the machine's provisions, and
satisfied first their raging thirst and afterwards the hunger that had
been forgotten in the face of the greater need for water. But Ladna
broke off eating to bandage Torcred's slashed shoulder with strips torn
from a gray garment.

It was then he remembered to scold her. "What did you mean," he
demanded between bites, "by rushing in here, after I distinctly told
you to keep in the clear?"

Her blue answering gaze held an impudence that was a new thing to him.
"I saw you had stopped it, Torcred the Terrible, so I came. And--where
would you have been if I hadn't?" Her strong slender fingers closed for
a moment painfully on his wounded shoulder.

He was silent, remembering with a queer excitement what her warning cry
had been. "Torcred!" not "Terrapin!" ...

The bandage finished, he stood up and said brusquely, "We'd better get
ready to leave."

"You plan to go on foot again--now that we've captured a machine?"

"It's the only sensible way," asserted Torcred flatly. "Neither of us
knows how to repair the caterpillar tread, or, if we managed that, how
to maneuver and fight the panzer; if we were attacked, it would be a
death trap for us. Afoot, we're in very little danger--what machine of
prey would be likely to consider us worthy of notice?"

They looted the best of the provisions, and the girl's deft fingers
fashioned for each a strap of sorts from a roil of cellotex fabric.
Torcred went up to the driver's cabin, located the engine under the
floor, and did things to it that would keep the panzer immobilized
until long after the blowing sand should have covered their traces. The
woman could untie their men as soon as they gained courage to come out
of hiding....

Terrapin and bird-girl set their faces to the east and began to trek
again. They trudged on with lightened hearts.

They had gone about a mile when a fold of the land revealed a wide
swathe of desert dotted with camouflaged steel hemispheres, mostly
buried in the sand--a big colony of the pillbox people.

They ducked back behind the shelter of the sand-hills and began what
looked like the shortest detour. Suddenly Ladna, glancing back the way
they had come, cried out sharply.

Torcred turned, and saw a plume of dust above the far-off dunes--then
a gray scurrying beetle-thing that rose to a crest, vanished, and
reappeared on a nearer swell.

It was a terrapin, travelling fast, and as it raced closer there was
less and less doubt that it was following their own plainly marked
trail. Torcred strained his eyes through the heat-shimmer to make out
the identifying mark on its blunt nose; he stiffened, and his hand
dropped to the knife he had taken from the panzer.

"Helsed! He's picked up our trail somehow--but what does he want?"

"The fat terrapin, the one that twisted my arm? I think I know," the
bird-girl said in a low voice.

Torcred's dark face went hard as flint. His mind seethed: there was
no hiding here, no use trying to flee from the hundred-mile-an-hour
pursuer--or was there?

Uncertain, he stood stockstill. The girl pressed shivering against him.
Helsed would not open fire, of course, for fear of hitting her; there
might be a chance of parleying. If he could only lure the fellow into
the open--

The Terrapin swung broadside--on a stone's throw from them. Its door
opened, and Helsed half slid out of the seat. He eyed the pair, swarthy
brows rising in seeming amusement.

"Ah, still together," he observed. "Torcred, my dear fellow--you
shouldn't be traveling in such company, even in your present status.
Suppose you run along and let me take care of her."

Torcred controlled his voice with an effort, "_You're_ a terrapin in
good standing, Helsed. Would you discard your honor--"

The other smirked. "Don't worry. I'm not a fool like you; I won't take
her home with me."

Torcred ground his teeth. "You're crazy!"

"I had to leave the hunt and make good time to catch you--I don't feel
like being disappointed." The viciousness in Helsed's smooth voice
crept into the open. "And I have a score to settle with you anyway."
He jerked the terrapin's door shut, and its nose gun started to swing
around.

Torcred spun and ran, crouching, knowing the girl would follow. They
plunged over the dune-top close together; the terrapin's gun wavered
and did not fire, then its motor snarled into life and it bounded after
them.

Torcred, with Ladna close behind, ran panting down the windward slope,
straight toward a cluster of domed, sunken structures. Sheer amazement
of the pillbox-dwellers must have kept them alive so far; every moment
he expected a murderous barrage.

It came. The nearest pillbox erupted flame, and beyond it others. The
explosions rolled flatly, echoless across the desert. Torcred caught
the girl round the waist and flung her down beside him; hugging the
ground, he raised his head slightly and looked back.

The terrapin swerved agilely among spouting columns of sand. Then all
its wheels left the ground at once, it tilted in the air and rolled
over and over down the long slope of the dune. Black smoke poured from
its punctured armor.


                                  VII

Torcred stared long at the blackened wreck, hardly noting that the
guns were silent, the haze settling. He knew none of the exhilaration
that had been his when he took the panzer; a sickish sensation nested
in his stomach. He had killed--by subterfuge, true, but killed all the
same--a brother-terrapin, and now in his own mind rose up against him a
lifetime's training, all the blood-ties with his own kind....

His own kind. The terrapins. But were they? _What was he?_

The breeze, laden with sharp smoke of explosive, made his eyes twitch
and smart. He blinked, and saw the man standing on the dune's edge
above them. Much nearer this time, so that there could be no doubt that
the eyes were looking at him, that the lips smiled. That smile, and the
careless stance that went with it, seemed to radiate confident power.

Beside Torcred the girl gasped, and he knew with sudden relief that she
too had seen the stranger.

And so did the others. The bright air was split again by thunder as
some touchy pillbox fired a shell. It struck squarely at the stranger's
feet, and they saw him blown to fragments. But the burst drifted down
the wind, things crawled and flickered in the air, and he was there
again, smiling more broadly than before. He glanced aside, at the
smashed terrapin, then back at Torcred, and raised his right hand in
a gesture--thumb and finger forming a circle--that some of the desert
peoples used as a sign of approval and encouragement.

Then he rippled slightly, like a reflection in water, and was gone.

Torcred was hardly conscious of how they squirmed out of range of the
pillbox people's venomous annoyance. Ladna, brushing tangled black hair
out of her eyes, was first to break the silence.

"Was that what you saw yesterday?"

"Uh-huh," admitted Torcred glumly. "But you saw. He wasn't real at all."

"Did we see the same? He was blown to bits, and reassembled himself
unhurt?" Torcred nodded. "Then there was something there."

"What?" he demanded, irked by her superior reasoning.

"I don't know.... But I remember something. A month ago, a man in
strange clothing like that--a real man of flesh and blood--came to
our eyrie. No one knew where he came from, or where he went when they
laughed him to scorn."

"They laughed--why?"

"Because he talked about 'civilization' to every one who would
listen--but he didn't seem to realize that the civilization of the
air is necessarily the highest. And he said we should make peace with
all other creatures--even the buzzards!--and refrain from hunting,
and practise photosynthesis like the lesser races." She wrinkled her
peeling nose. "If that weren't enough, he mixed his talk with old
legends--stories of the ancients, and the floating cities."

"I've heard--" Torcred began, looking impressed. The girl smiled
loftily.

"Those are tales that have lost their substances, fit for the young,
the ignorant, and the uncivilized. Certainly the great ancients
existed--they were an air-people like us, who ruled the world long ago,
as we shall in time to come. But that they were immortal and are still
alive, drifting somewhere in midocean out of sight of land--that's
nonsense."

"Maybe so," Torcred grunted stolidly. In the cosmogony he knew, the
ancients were mighty terrapin heroes of the world's youth, from whose
stock all other races had degenerated; they still lived somewhere,
and would return to make the terrapins supreme again.... He said
matter-of-factly, "If you want to know what I think--we are being
watched, by something that is alive and powerful _here_ and _now_."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ladna started and looked nervously round. She had begun to respect the
Terrapin's shrewd native intelligence. As they plodded on across the
desert, she said no more, infected by his dark preoccupation.

But in Torcred's brain the question of the stranger's identity loomed
less large than that of his own. What was he? Ex-warrior and hunter,
ex-hero, ex-terrapin--he could think of things he had been and was not.

_I am a--_

He had no word. Outcast, traitor, criminal? A newborn pride in him
rebelled against the labels he would have accepted without question
before his battle with the panzer. He had earned a name, but he had no
name.

The west veiled its face in flame again, and darkness overtook them in
the wilderness. Torcred dreamed that he stood naked in the middle of a
vast circle of formidable machines that snarled and hooted, demanding
his name and lineage; and he had no answer. In desperation he cried, "I
am I!"--and a thousand motors roared, the armored mass rolled inward to
crush him.

He woke staring into a dawn-lit sky where a black flight of buzzards
droned northward thousands of feet overhead.

Ladna was awake too and looking up, the old tense fear-born hatred
expressed in every line of her body.

"They're insolent," she murmured half to herself. "So close.... This
is already my people's land," she explained to Torcred, and her gaze
led his toward the mountains, where gray and red and yellow cliffs and
slopes stood out now from the blue haze of the canyons. "I don't know
how those buzzards dare to fly so near."

"Why do you hate them so?" asked Torcred.

"They're evil. They want to rule the world."

"Well--" Torcred scowled, still out of sorts after his nightmare.
"Don't you bird-folk have the same grand plans?"

"That's different!" she cried vehemently. "Don't dare to compare us
to the buzzards! We're hunters, like the terrapins, but the buzzards
kill and destroy for sport. The milk of their mothers is bitter with
cruelty! Oh, if those things should win--" she made a swift gesture to
ward off evil--"you'll learn what terror can be!"

A skeptical part of Torcred's mind reflected that that was one side's
story. But he wanted to believe the girl when her blue eyes blazed so
and her voice trembled with passion. Once he had wanted to hurt her and
humble her. That had been long ago....

But there was a strained silence between them as they made ready to
resume the march.

They had hardly gone fifty paces when they heard again the noise of
engines aloft, nearer this time, and looking up saw a second trio of
buzzards passing over. But one of these had left the others and was
dropping steeply earthward, heading, it seemed, straight toward them.

Torcred stared stupidly at the great machine--it could not possibly
mean to attack them in their utter insignificance. Ladna was less
confident; she shrilled, "Down!" and Torcred dropped to all fours and
flattened himself to the sand beside her, just as the buzzard leveled
off and shot overhead so low that they could see the landing wheels
folded like talons under it, could see a door open in its black belly.
Something appeared through the aperture and vanished in the speed of
its fall. The buzzard had laid an egg, and it hatched mere yards away
with a flash and roar that left them blinded, deafened, smothered,
feeling that the earth had heaved up to meet the falling sky and pinned
them between.

Torcred sat up, swaying, his head a ringing void. He glimpsed Ladna's
face, tears of rage furrowing the grime of sand on her cheeks as she
glared after the receding and climbing buzzard.

       *       *       *       *       *

And not far away, among loose heaps of sand on the rim of the blast
crater, he saw a strange thing. A massive cone of metal, with the
spiral grooves and flanges of a screw, thrust slantingly from the
ground; it was turning slowly, earth dropping from it, and as he stared
it turned faster and moved forward and upward, drawing after it a
glistening rounded back.

Dazedly Torcred walked toward the thing, and as he did so a port-cover
lifted in the armored back and a man's head thrust out. He blinked at
Torcred with a look of stunned confusion.

"What happened?" demanded the mole in a shaken voice. "I was coming
up for a breath of air, then--_bang_!" He looked around wildly. "My
garden! What have they done to my garden?"

The moles, Torcred knew, made gardens--sheets of cellotex impregnated,
like the sun-screens of the trailers and like machines, with
photosynthetic chemicals. Even the predators left them alone, for the
most part, since the moles were a peaceful and harmless race. That,
then, had been the bomb's target.

The mole peered at Torcred, seemed to come to himself. "What are you?"
he gasped, and without waiting for an answer, ducked inside. The
hatch-cover slammed, the great screw reversed and revolved furiously,
and the burrowing machine slowly sank from sight under the sand.

"Now do you believe me--about _them_?" demanded Ladna's stifled voice.

Torcred nodded slowly, feeling sorry for the poor frightened mole, and
rather surprised at himself for it, as he had been when he had spared
the beaten crew of the panzer.... Torcred the Terrapin was never like
that. Mechanically his fingers caressed the half-healed mark on his
forehead.

The girl's tongue seemed loosened by their near escape, and as they
journeyed on, she talked, with a calm bitterness now, of the enemy.
Torcred knew vaguely that, somewhere far to the north, was Buzzard
Base, an immense fortress with subterranean dwellings and hangars where
the black monsters bred and swarmed. Ladna enlightened him further.
"Some of our spies"--the word meant nothing to Torcred--"got inside
the place not long ago. They reported things stirring, the buzzards
building airframes and engines at a furious rate, obviously planning a
new move. Naturally, we increased our construction tempo to keep pace
with them, but we've been puzzled; you see, there were rumors that
the chief buzzards were worried about something else, besides the old
dragging stalemate. But whatever it was, they were keeping it secret
even from their own rank and file."

Torcred shook his head bewilderedly; he was lost in her world with its
vastness and complexity of organization and politics and schemes for
domination. With the openmindedness of confusion he had to admit that
the civilization of the air was such as the free terrapins did not
dream of.... And he felt an inward hurt as, in the girl's talk of her
people and their life, he sensed the widening of the distance between
them, which had almost dwindled away while they wandered and struggled
to survive and nearly died together in the desert.

But the mountains were close now, and they made good time that day.
They did not need to evade any of the prowling land machines, for the
desert here was utterly empty, unmarked by wheels, under the threat of
the desolate plateaus above and ahead, from which deadly flying things
ranged far and wide.

A couple of times they glimpsed winged squadrons in the sky, and the
girl's eyes shone, and the shadow on Torcred's face grew deeper.

       *       *       *       *       *

As evening came on, the mesas rose bare and sheer before them out of
the sandy waste. They climbed laboriously over smooth rock and gravel
slides; Ladna led the way upward, trying to sight landmarks that were
meant to be seen from the air.

At last she gave a little cry of joy, and pointed up the dry streambed
they were ascending. Torcred looked, and saw nothing but the
rock-rimmed head of the canyon; but the girl had seen some sign that
wholly escaped him. "We're practically there!"

Behind her back Torcred passed a hand across his eyes. "Well, then," he
said with assumed casualness, "you'll be all right from here on."

She whirled and gave him a searching look. "What are you talking about?"

Torcred's jaw muscles twitched. "I'm wishing you a happy homecoming,"
he answered, "by way of saying goodbye."

"But you're coming with me!... Aren't you?... What else can you do?"

He shook his head somberly. "I'm too used to freedom, Ladna. I'll take
my chances with the desert again."

"I told you my people will accept you, and your fate among them will
be no worse than mine...." Her protest trailed off as she read the
inflexible refusal in his impassive face.

"Earth and sky can't meet." He looked back down the canyon, toward
where a wedge of the barren plain, pink with reflected sunset, showed
between the rock walls. Then the girl was in front of him again. Her
eyes were very large, and her red lips spoke no more useless words of
pleading.

Instead--her hands were on his shoulders, her arms slipped round
his neck as her slim body swayed against him, her face blurred with
nearness, tilted up....

Gravely, according to the terrapin custom, Torcred touched noses with
her.

He felt her go tense, and she drew back. Her eyes glistened with a
shock and disappointment he was at a loss to understand. She said in a
choked voice, "Good-bye!" and turned and fled up the ravine.

Mechanically Torcred picked up the satchel with the remainder of her
share of the food and water, which she had remembered to leave behind.
His muscles tightened with a violent urge to run after her and bring
her back by force.

But how could he hold her with him? She still had her place, however
small, in the world of machines that had cast him out.... Suddenly he
hated them all without exception, all the iron monsters that ruled
the world in whose sight flesh and blood were helpless, hopeless, as
nothing.

He stumbled down the mountain, going into an exile lonelier than that
stigmatized by the brand on his forehead. Yet withal, loneliness and
hatred, he felt a curious inner peace. His brain was no longer a
battlefield of hostile allegiances and longings. He still had no name
for what he had become. But it didn't matter any more.

He reached the bottom of the last rock slide, and looked back; in the
failing light he could just make out the mesa rim, above which must lie
the aeros' eyrie. Nothing moved up there. She would be at home now,
among her own kind.


                                 VIII

When he turned away, he saw the stranger standing not far off, beneath
a great stone promontory that thrust out into the sea of sand, his back
to a deep black cleft in the rock. Torcred could see his face clearly
this time, and this time it was unsmiling, the brows drawn together
and lips compressed in an expression of anxiety. The stranger beckoned
with a jerky urgency, half-turned, and pointed toward the crevice of
the cliff.

Torcred took a step toward him, his anger boiling up dangerously, blood
drumming in his ears. "What are you?" he shouted. "What do you want?
You've dogged my steps, watched me, and applauded my downfall. Now
what--"

The stranger's eyes shifted, and he moved his head as if listening to
a voice that Torcred did not hear. His eyes widened with alarm, and he
vanished like a blown-out flame.

Torcred blinked baffledly. The hand on the hilt of his knife relaxed,
but the roaring in his ears grew louder. Almost it might be real....

He threw back his head and looked up. Far above, individually almost
indistinguishable in the pale twilight sky but making it alive with
their massed formations, V after V of black flying shapes were moving.
The air throbbed with the vibrant roar of many engines.

The leading squadrons were already over the mountain when the first
dart of flame leaped from it and climbed with a whistling rush to meet
them. Others followed, the clatter of their guns mingling with the
multiple crescendo shriek of the first sticks of falling bombs.

Torcred crouched involuntarily, bracing himself for the concussions
that must shake earth and air.... But only dull thudding sounds
rolled down from the mesa, as if the rain of projectiles fell without
exploding.

Over the mountain two buzzards dropped out of formation and wobbled
earthward, trailing smoke down the sky, and a third burst into bright
flame and disintegrated in a meteoric shower. New formations still came
droning out of the north--the buzzards were attacking in force. Their
bombs kept landing with sullen thumps, almost inaudible under the roar
of motors, the sputter of guns and the flat reports of aerial cannon.

But to Torcred, hugging the lee of a great boulder and trying with
straining eyes to pierce the darkness that increasingly shrouded the
mesa, those dull incessant impacts became an ominous sound. Ladna had
gone up there--she had had plenty of time to reach safety in the buried
heart of the eyrie, which even the mightiest explosives could scarcely
touch--but without knowing why, Torcred edged out of his shelter and
began once more, creeping from rock to rock, to clamber up the steep
ravine that the two of them had ascended together.

He had not progressed far--in the dark the uncertain footing was
dangerous--when the breeze, sighing down the canyon with cool
mountain-top air for the hot plain, brought confirmation of his fear
with it.

A whiff of strange odor that stung in his nostrils and tickled his
windpipe harshly. Then his eyes began to smart as it grew rapidly
stronger; the gas the buzzards had used to blanket the mesa was a
dense one, designed to seek out the aero people in the depths of their
underground fortress.

Torcred halted, blinking, struggling with the growing need to cough. He
recognized the odor after a moment--the same poison that the machines
called skunks used against their enemies. He knew that enough of it was
deadly. And a cold hand of terror clutched at his heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

He flung caution from him and started to scramble recklessly,
planlessly upward. Denser clouds of gas met him, and, half-blinded,
he stumbled against sharp rocks and almost fell when fits of coughing
shook him. His chest became a rasping furnace, and each deep panting
breath was a flame. Bitterly he knew that his will could not drive him
much longer into that torment....

In the air something flew burning, and the light of its destruction
fell bright as day into the canyon and threw shifting shadows.
Torcred's tear-filled eyes blurred the glare, but he glimpsed a small
dark-clad figure huddled on the rocks not ten feet from him, across a
black crevice that might be five or fifty feet deep.

He crouched and sprang; weakened knees betrayed him, he landed clawing
on the rounded lip of the chasm and barely managed to pull himself up
to the girl's side. But new strength steeled him as he gathered his
feet under him and dragged both her and himself erect.

Ladna was alive and conscious; she leaned against him, coughing weakly.

"I was coming back," she gasped in his ear. "I'd have been up there ...
but I was coming back ... to you...."

Torcred hardly understood her. "Come on!" he croaked. "Down!"

The way seemed immeasurably longer than the way up had been. It was
really a little longer--the gas was settling fast--until, staggering,
each half-supporting the other, they reached a level where the air
was no longer choking poison. Ladna grew able to stand alone; swaying
a little, she followed Torcred down the treacherous slides in the
canyon's mouth.

On the soft wind-piled sand below the great rifted rock, where Torcred
had last seen the visionary stranger, they sank down to rest by common
consent. Torcred listened anxiously to the girl's hoarse breathing.

He moistened his lips and asked, "How do you feel?"

Ladna stirred and sat up with an effort that set her coughing again.
"I'll be all right.... We'll go back into the desert, and live there
somehow, as long--as long as we live."

"That's right," said Torcred. In the dark she couldn't see how his face
grew grim at the thought of how short their life together was likely to
be.

He raised his head, sniffing the air. A thin sharp taint, reminiscent
of stifling agony, told him they must be up and moving soon. The gas
was diffusing but still dangerous; up yonder on the plateau, where it
had been concentrated, it must have left nothing save desolation and
death....

Only then did he become aware, with a start of amazement, of the great
silence that enfolded mountain, sky, and desert.

The air, at least, which had snarled with motors not twenty minutes
earlier, should still have echoed to the sound of battle. But the sky
was empty.

No, not empty--abruptly landing lights cut a brilliant swathe far out
on the desert. The buzzard pilot saw he had misjudged his altitude
and tried to pull up, the huge ship stalled and its lights went out as
it plowed into the ground. Before the sound of its crash reached the
mountain's foot, a pillar of fire was mounting above the dunes, and
they saw that the air was full of machines, attackers and defenders
alike in one confused flitting swarm, wheeling, dipping and always
drifting downward, unpowered.

Ladna gasped, "What's happened? The buzzards--"

"I don't know. Maybe your people--"

"They're not my people any more," she interrupted swiftly. "Whatever
you are, I am too.... And anyway, all the engines are dead."

       *       *       *       *       *

Torcred got up stiffly. On the desert between them and the fire, an
aero glided down, bounced and rolled to a shaky landing. Its pilot
dropped to the ground and stood staring at his useless machine; he did
not even look up as a buzzard passed low over him with a rush of wings,
touched ground and slewed round a short way off with a broken landing
gear. Small figures spilled out of it too, their movements expressing
the same dazed lack of understanding. The enemies paid each other no
heed.

The smell of gas was stronger. The desert would be littered with
aircraft, but they shouldn't have much trouble slipping through....
Still Torcred frowned, hesitating. He turned with sudden resolution to
the girl.

"Wait here. There's something I have to find out; but it won't take
long."

"No!" Ladna struggled to her feet. "I'll go with you."

Torcred started to protest, then changed his mind. He turned silently
toward the cliff whose blank stone face was lit redly by the dying
fire, its great fissure a dark gulf of mystery.

Inside the cleft it was pitchblack, but the footing was smooth, packed
sand. Torcred felt his way between rock walls. At first he heard only
the scufflings the girl made, groping behind him, and then he was
conscious of a faint all-pervading hum. Something was humming deep in
the rock, and Torcred felt sure now that he was going to find the
meaning of the visions and of the battle's uncanny end.

He was hardly surprised when white light shone in the fissure ahead and
a man appeared, black against it. The figure's outline was familiar.
The stranger spoke--his first word in a strange tongue, but the rest
intelligible enough though oddly pronounced.

"Ahoy, there! We'd almost given you up."

Torcred advanced warily. The stranger did not flicker nor vanish. A
door was open, and the white light poured out from a chamber that
must have been a natural hollow, laboriously enlarged in the stone.
Torcred's hand shot out and gripped the man's arm above the elbow; the
stranger started, then relaxed, and Torcred caught a flash of the grin
he had seen before.

"I'm real," said the stranger. "I wasn't the other times we've met--but
that's one of the things Captain Relez will explain to you. Now come
inside, before the air out here gets any thicker."

Cautiously Torcred edged into the brightly-lit room, keeping in front
of Ladna. He saw in the cramped space a glittering confusion of
unfamiliar devices--it was the flimsiness of most of the apparatus
that was most surprising; the terrapins and other races built mostly
machinery designed to withstand heavy mechanical forces, but a blow of
the hand would shatter most of those things of wire and glass tubes. A
young man, hunched over a complex control panel beside a glass screen
on which a darkly indistinct image floated, glanced up with narrowed
eyes, and an older one with a small pointed beard met Torcred's
suspicious gaze benignly, over a small table on which a map was spread,
studded with colored pins.

Then Torcred heard the door click, and whirled, hand on his knife.

"It's not locked," the bearded man said calmly. "You can leave if you
like--but we've gone to a good deal of trouble to persuade you here for
a talk."

       *       *       *       *       *

Torcred faced him again, still tensely ready. The setup here didn't
look dangerous, only incomprehensible. But he sensed power in this
little room; the deep potent hum he had heard in the fissure was at
home here, though he could not locate its source.

"My name is Relez." The bearded man rose from behind his table, "Dunu,
you can take care of the chart."

"Aye, aye, sir," said the young man they had seen as a phantom in the
desert, and Torcred bristled again at the alien jargon. But Relez'
casual manner was reassuring.

He gestured at a shelf cut into the stone. "Have a seat." Torcred
obeyed mechanically, and Ladna huddled beside him. Torcred stared
fascinated at the screen. A scene had resolved itself there--one of
incredible, nostalgic familiarity. It was the twice-ringed camp of the
terrapins, unmistakable to Torcred though he saw it now from a strange
angle, from above. All the machines were in place, as was normal after
nightfall. Torcred half started to his feet.

Then he saw what was not normal for that or any hour in a terrapin
camp. A confusion of bobbing lights among the cars; the shop area in
the midst was almost deserted, but against the reddening fires of the
forges tiny black figures scurried to and fro like distracted ants.
He could almost hear the cries of alarm and exasperation over the
discovery that not a functioning engine was left in the whole troop.

Torcred turned and caught Relez smiling in his beard.

"You did that!"

Relez nodded. "Unfortunately, we didn't get the anti-ionization field
into operation in time to prevent the buzzards' gas attack. But there
won't be any more fighting tonight, unless they do it with knives.
It's a bit of luck that none of these people seem to have any notion
of portable firearms. No more mechanized warfare, though, as long as
that unit is working." He gestured at a thing of massive coils and bus
bars and fragile glowing tubes, from which, Torcred perceived now, the
humming came.

Ladna's blue eyes were wide. "That little device--has stopped all the
machines?"

"It broadcasts a wave form that affects the molecules of air, of all
gases, inhibiting their ionization. So no spark can jump, and motors
are stopped when their electric ignition fails. The only machines
that can move now, inside its range, are the moles, with their
battery-driven electric motors for underground travel--which is lucky
for them, or they'd be trapped under the earth.

"Everything else--terrapins, trailers, aeros, buzzards, and all
the rest--are paralyzed. Our field's range blankets five hundred
thousand square miles. Beyond that area, others are responsible for
administering the same treatment; it already began a month ago on the
coast--"

"What are you?" Torcred burst out. "What do you want?"

"We three--Dunu, Rhenu, and I--are the Continental Demilitarization
Commission for this area. As to what we are trying to do, that will
take some explaining--"

"I meant," Torcred scowled, dissatisfied, "what is your race?"

Relez regarded him strangely. "The same as yours. The race of man."


                                  IX

They came of peoples which had no history, only legend and tradition.
And they learned--

That there was such a thing as history, recorded in books; Relez showed
them such a book, which they could not read, because neither of them
could understand more than the code markings on mechanical parts.

That the storied ancients, whose powers were marvelous and whose end
was terrible, had really existed and had left their record in writing.

How after the great wars that had almost seared his life from the
Earth's surface, when man's weapons--and his medical science--had
wiped out every creature save the indestructible destroyer himself,
the machine races had risen from the shreds of technical knowledge
hoarded by the scattered groups of survivors and crystallized by their
descendants in the rigid mold of tradition. And how that last war had
never ended, but had passed into the nature of things in the unending
war of the predatory machines against the feeders on sunlight, and of
the races of land and air and sea for mastery of their habitats.

"But no matter who wins, no man is master; the machine is the ruler,
and man is its slave. It is against that we have begun to fight, now,
after all the long dark ages...."

For one place on all the harried Earth had provided the relative
security and permanence needed to keep alive a spark of the ancients'
culture. That was aboard the great ships at sea, that had been built
and armed to resist every hellish technique of destruction known to the
dead age of their building, and were wholly invulnerable to today's
weapons. Those were floating cities in truth, with atomic power plants,
machine shops, dwellings, hospitals, storehouses, recreation space,
libraries--and in the later times, when their first purpose as warships
had been almost forgotten, classrooms and laboratories where the
knowledge of the past was dredged up from the memories of men and from
the books, and even added to in some ways.

"We have built up the nucleus of a new civilization on the sea," said
Relez solemnly. "Now the time has come for it to take root on the dry
land. But first the continents must be pacified. The world must be
taken from the warring machines and given back to man.

"We possess some of the old ones' weapons, and we could try to use
them to enforce our will, as they did. And I think our end would be
like theirs. But we have invented some new devices to serve the cause
of peace. The anti-ionization field is chief among those. I myself had
some share in developing it--my title of 'captain' means leader of a
group of scientists, not master of a ship."

"Is there no defense against the field?" asked Torcred shrewdly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Relez eyed him thoughtfully. "There are ways of avoiding the effect,"
he admitted, "but they are not likely to occur to these custom-bound
people. And once they are liberated from the tyranny of the machine--"

"Your method of liberation," said Torcred, "is to reduce everyone to an
equal helplessness, and let them fight it out among themselves?"

"You might put it that way. I'm afraid there will be some bloodshed.
The predatory peoples, naturally, will have the hardest time at first.
But--Suppose _you_ tell _me_ what you think will happen, for example,
when the terrapins come in contact, under the new conditions, with
their old enemies and prey, the trailer people."

"Why--at first they will be afraid to venture out of the camp. Then,
when the food supply runs low, they will begin to think of attacking
the stalled trailer herd on foot. A quick raid, by determined men with
knives and clubs, might work once or twice, but not after that, because
the trailer people are much more numerous, and, once recovered from the
first confusion and organized, they could defend themselves...."

"But if you were chief of the terrapins, what would you do?"

Torcred thought hard, intrigued in spite of himself. "I think--I would
try to get some of the sun-machines the trailers use. In order to have
an independent supply of food and power, you understand. That lightning
raid, perhaps--but it would be hard to dismantle the screens and escape
with them. No, I think I would try to bargain with the trailers. They
have no radar scanners; if their suspicions could be allayed, they'd be
willing to trade a few of their sun-screens for some terrapin sighting
devices."

"Not realizing that those have lost their value, now that all aircraft
are grounded," said Relez with a smile. "It might work. And overcoming
the suspicions may prove easier than you think, when men begin to meet
each other under the open sky, and realize that their hates never
belonged to them, but to the machines they served...."

"I don't know about the buzzards," murmured Ladna dubiously.

Relez disregarded that. "What we need now is helpers. The
anti-ionization field is the catalyst of peace, but if it is to work
quickly, the confused peoples must have guidance.

"We've done a little advance missionary work among the more civilized
and approachable tribes, both in the flesh, and by teleprojection, as
Dunu appeared to you in the wilderness. The televiewer, incidentally,
is another of our new developments; the old machines of that type used
both a transmitter and receiver, but this one works on the principle
you can see once in a while in nature, when atmospheric refraction is
just right to reassemble the light from a distant object and project
its picture in the air. Only very recently we perfected the reverse
application of the effect, so that under good conditions we can project
a three-dimensional image--mirage--over large distances.

"But those methods are inadequate for working directly on the minds of
the peoples. Few as we are, we can't appear openly as authors of the
change; for the time being, let them think it a natural phenomenon.
However," his eyes met Torcred's and held them in a challenging gaze,
"very much could be done to smooth a people's way toward civilization
by an agent who belongs by birth to it...."

"I was a terrapin once," said Torcred steadily. "Now I am a man of
the race of man. And in the eyes of the terrapins I am an outcast,
accursed."

"I know. But your very return, when they think you dead, may help the
break-down of the old habits and customs.... I don't say it will be
easy. But I believe the desert has sharpened your wits."

       *       *       *       *       *

Torcred considered. The mark on his forehead burned, but he remembered
how there had been compassion in Vazcled's face even as he wielded the
knife, and that his worst enemy was discreditably dead in the desert.
"Perhaps," he muttered.

"If you go back," said Ladna quietly, "I go too."

Relez stroked his beard. "That might make trouble."

The girl turned on him, electric fire in her look. "None of your
business!"

Relez smiled. "On the other hand, maybe it will be for the best--a step
forward in contact between the peoples."

Torcred felt a new strength and confidence born of Ladna's loyalty. He
said, "Your scheme is good, if it will work. I will--_we_ will help
you make it work."

The older man's face lit. "Good!" he exclaimed enthusiastically. "You
already have some sound ideas. I suggest--"

"Captain!" broke in a low, taut voice. "What do you make of this?"

Relez wheeled. The young technician who had been operating the controls
of the televiewer was pointing at the screen in horror.

The scene was a sweep of desert, silvered by the risen moon. There were
indistinct dark shapes that might be a tribe of dragons, stalled, of
course. But around and among them red flashes leaped and black towers
of smoke sprang up to drift down the quiet night wind.

It was a scene of death and destruction whose silence made it unreal.
But as the five people in the rock chamber held their breath, they
heard and felt, telegraphed from far away through the ground, the dull
heavy concussions of exploding bombs.

"Scan the sky, Rhenu," gulped the captain.

The view shifted as Rhenu's trembling fingers made adjustments, and
they glimpsed a black squadron drifting across the moonlit sky.
Cruising with a leisurely consciousness of invulnerability, in the
knowledge that the victims were helpless to maneuver, sitting ducks to
be blasted at will.

"Keep on scanning!" snapped Relez, but his face was ashen as he saw his
dreams crumbling.

Dunu was incredulously checking the anti-ionization generator. "There's
nothing wrong here," he reported. But the screen showed scene after
scene of a carnival of destruction. The night sky was full of buzzards,
flying low, playing their search-lights on the desert and raining gas
and explosives on everything that lived. It was the buzzards' moment to
strike for dominance and they were making the most of it.

Dunu said frozenly, "They must have been warned by their kin on the
coast, and have managed to develop an engine with a hotpoint ignition
system."

Relez muttered, looking suddenly old and weary, "It's too bad. The
people with the highest technical ingenuity--but their motivation
seems to be insane hate of everything unlike them."

"I told you so," Ladna said bitterly.

Torcred had no ears for philosophy; he had seen enough of the murder
going on out there. He bounded to his feet and his knife flashed in his
hand.

"One side!" he snarled at the recoiling Dunu. "I'm going to smash that
machine and give the rest of us a chance!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But Relez had stepped between him and the generator. The color returned
to his bearded features as he faced the threatening blade.

"Wait!" he cried. "Don't wreck all your chances for peace--"

"I'll give you peace," said Torcred, "if you don't get out of the way."

Ladna was behind him, he knew, knife drawn, holding the thunderstruck
assistants at bay.

Relez did not move. "I told you we possess some of the ancients'
weapons. The decision to use them belongs properly to the High Command
of the Fleet--but in this case I will take it on myself."

"You have such weapons here?"

"Yes. A bomb, which in case we were discovered here could have exploded
to wipe out this place and protect our secrets. You and the girl can
take one of the grounded aeros outside and carry the bomb over Buzzard
Base. I'll switch off the anti-ionization field for half an hour, long
enough for you to go and return...."

"One bomb?" exclaimed Ladna scornfully. "_They_ have thousands!"

"No more will be needed."

Torcred's black gaze searched Relez' face for long moments. He read
utter sincerity there, and lowered the knife.


                                   X

The aero roared across a short stretch of sand and was airborne. It
swerved, evading a buzzard squadron that was droning over, and climbed
swiftly into the north.

Torcred huddled in the cramped space behind the pilot's seat,
over the little dull metal box that Relez claimed was a bomb. He
glimpsed Ladna's face, over the dimly glowing controls; it was as if
transfigured. She was tasting the joy she had thought lost to her
forever, the glory of flight through the high thin air at a thousand
miles an hour.

"This isn't like crawling, is it?" she asked lightly. "Four or five
minutes now, and we'll be there."

Torcred braced himself more firmly. "Give me thirty seconds warning."

Presently the girl cut off the power. The machine slowed and began to
swerve and buck a little as its speed approached that of sound. "Thirty
seconds."

Relez had told him how to arm the bomb. Torcred pushed the levers he
had indicated, and looked doubtfully at the harmless-looking gray
box. "We're over it," said Ladna. "The place is lit up; they're not
expecting anything else in the air. I can see buzzards taking off...."

Torcred, of course, could see nothing. He shoved open the emergency
escape door in the floor and tipped the lead box out into the shrieking
rush of air.

The engine's sighing roar began again. He slammed the door shut and
squirmed forward, into the seat beside Ladna. The little ship ran away,
faster than sound or an air shock wave could follow....

But they saw the glare that turned desert and mountains and sky ahead
white with a reflected radiance brighter than the noonday sun. For
moments it lasted, then the light died and the night was dead black to
their dazzled eyes.

"The ancients' weapons were pretty potent," said Torcred, and the girl
shivered.

She made a wide circle and flew back, but they could see nothing in the
valley where Buzzard Base had been. Only an immense cloud of darkness
still faintly luminous at its heart, roiling slowly upward. The air was
turbulent. Ladna gave the cloud a wide berth, for Relez had warned them
of that.

The girl looked questioningly at Torcred. He said, "A line due south
from the Salt Sea should find us the terrapins' camp."

Obediently Ladna made a few degrees' turn to the west. "You still
believe--"

"That Relez was right? I don't know. But I know this--whether the men
of the floating cities have their way of the world or not, they've
started a change that must lead to more change, a new civilization....
And I still want to help the terrapins make a place in it--first of all
by teaching them that they are men."

       *       *       *       *       *

The great salt lake unrolled in the moonlight and slipped away beneath
the ship. They raced on over the southern reaches of the valley where
they had wandered three strange days. Then in midflight the motor
choked and died. The anti-ionization field had closed down again.

"Relez is in a hurry for his peace," remarked Torcred, and they laughed
a little hysterically. The ship lost altitude and the shadowy desert
came up to meet them, but not before they saw, a couple of miles away,
a spot of light that Torcred's keen eyes identified as the camp of the
terrapins. He breathed a sigh of relief at finding it undamaged by the
buzzard raids.

"You can start educating them in the morning," said Ladna. "Isn't the
moon lovely tonight?"

"Eh?" Torcred was jarred by the disconnectedness of her remarks. "Why
wait till morning?"

She started to answer, then exclaimed and wrenched at the controls. The
aero wobbled on one wing as the top of a dune slid by scant feet below;
then it plowed through the next crest and pancaked into the valley
beyond.

The two scrambled, shaken up but undamaged, out of the battered craft,
and Torcred caught the disheveled girl in his arms.

"You're a hopelessly bad bird," he growled in mock rage. "Two ships
you've smashed up inside a week!"

And he would have touched noses with her, but Ladna evaded the gesture
adroitly.

"Don't be a terrapin!" she chided. "You've got to learn civilized
ways ... like this...."

He learned.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DEAD-STAR ROVER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
