ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Valkyrie from the Void, by Basil Wells

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Valkyrie from the Void

Author: Basil Wells

Release Date: March 06, 2021 [eBook #64725]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK VALKYRIE FROM THE VOID ***




                        Valkyrie From The Void

                            By BASIL WELLS

         Staggering under the blasting heat of a great ringed
         sun, she fought only to cross her savage slimy world.
         The lithe Priestess Ylda knew not that her goal lay,
           bright and shining, a thousand light-years away.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Planet Stories Fall 1948.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Hardan Synn reined in his graceful golden-furred _maar_ as he reached
the rim of the river's low bluff. He was uncomfortable, for the
_vurth_-padded garments that covered his naked body were growing dry,
but tied to his huge hornless saddle were three fat Dryland birds. He
would eat well tonight.

The rough fare of cereals and preserved fish had palled. Five years
of roaming the blistering plains and mountains with sun-hardened
prospectors and hunters had given Hardan Synn a taste for Dryland
flesh. So it was that he quitted the camp when the day's trek was done
and rode out in search of game.

The maar's long black ears cupped forward, searching the source of some
discordant sound. Hardan's keen green eyes snapped back to the reality
of the camp sprawling half-in, half-out of the muddy bluish river.

Men were fighting, fists and clubs smashing into the down-furred
flesh of their fellows. The sound of their enraged bellowing and the
shrill screams of pain and agony grew louder even as he forced his maar
down the steep path to the bluff's base.

"Nitka Porn again," Hardan Synn spat out savagely as the blue dust
swirled about him. "Always he seeks to stir up trouble among the
_sarifs_."

His sun-darkened face was a gaunt mask as he neared the river, but his
slitted green eyes were hot with growing rage. He could not leave the
eighty great wagons with their cargos of two hundred Wetlanders and
their meager supplies for so short a time as a _turev_ of the water
dial without trouble arising.

Hardan sprang off his mount and elbowed his way into the thick of the
melee, his broad hard shoulders tossing soggy-padded men aside. His
hard fists smashed one scowling-faced Wetlander's nose, and then he was
through into the rude square formed by the inner ring of six-wheeled
wagons.

"Nitka Porn!" he shouted, his voice a knife-thrust of sound above the
tumult.

The fighting men separated slowly, some weaving on their legs
unsteadily, bleeding, and others kneeling and groaning. A half-dozen,
most of them wearing the short green capes of the nobles' personal
servants, sprawled limply in their own reddish-brown blood.

From one of these unmoving bodies a huge-bodied man, his brutal jaws
masked by a bush of fiery red whiskers and his broad nose segmented by
a sword-cut's diagonal scar, rose. Half his protective shell of faded
blue cloth stuffed with vurth was ripped away from his shoulder and
chest. Great muscles knotted there in his swiftly dehydrating pink
flesh. He snarled at Hardan.

"The Drylander arrives," he jeered, and laughed.

From the hard-packed blue clay of the camping place he picked an
arm-long stake of wood. He waved it derisively at Hardan.

"Watch him shiver," he roared. "When he is well beaten I will drive him
from the camp. Then I will lead."

Hardan's stomach knotted--and then dissolved into a glowing spot of
fire. His fingers bit into the leather handles of his twin short
swords. He had no eyes for the grinning minority clustered about Nitka
Porn. Nor did he see the puzzled empty faces of the other trekkers, the
slow-minded plodding sarifs caught in this bloody trailside struggle.

"You stand alone against us all," snarled Nitka Porn, swaggering
forward, his muddy green eyes slitted watchfully. "The Consars are
dead, swimming in their fine wagon tanks for the last time. Their
wagons and riding maars are ours now."

Hardan caught his breath on that. This was disaster!

"Fools," he said, his voice loud and sharp, "you know the price of any
rebellion. The Consars will track you down. For many it will be the
crushing death."

Even as he spoke his eyes never left those of the red-whiskered killer
he fronted. In a moment the giant sarif would charge forward, his club
swinging and the long curved sword of a dead lord in his other hand.

Hardan sprang to meet him, swords bared and gleaming. Perhaps with the
death of Nitka Porn the revolt would collapse....

The stake caught him squarely on the shoulder. His left-hand sword
dropped, tripping him. He caught himself, warded off a whistling slash
of the huge curved blade of the sarif, and leaped backward. His left
shoulder was numbed, his arm dangling limp as a blasted _netho_ leaf in
the noonday sun.

Hardan's sword darted in and out, flickering in the brazen sunlight.
Blades clashed, slithered apart and the good steel rang clear as bells
tinkling. Blood leaked through the pierced blue cloth of the sarif's
vurth-padded garment in a half-dozen places.

His arm was tingling with reviving life. Through a red mist of hate
Hardan fought with a cool machine-like series of lightning-swift lunges
that ripped the sarif's skin into myriad reddish-brown furrows. Hatred
was there, yes, but so controlled that it added strength to his sword
arm and length to his blade.

The long curved sword flipped abruptly away into the faceless mass of
the ringed trekkers. Nitka Porn pawed at his dripping knuckles, his
mouth squared, his eyes bulging. He lunged backward, the men parting
before his blind rush. And Hardan followed, his eyes hot.

"Kill him.... Mika, Garnd.... Don't let him.... No.... Mercy!" begged
the great coward, his hands before his face.

Hardan poised his keen blade for the death thrust.

"No," he swore angrily, "by Ung Roth, I have not the heart for killing
this foul _bladt_."

He rammed the sword into the clay. His fists swung hard, all the
unleashed loathing and disgust of weeks past in their calculated blows,
and Nitka Porn went down emptily, to quiver and lie still.

Hardan retrieved his swords, wiping the stains off on the unconscious
hulk's ribboned cloth. He faced the sullen Wetlanders.

"I take over again," he announced. "Back to Aba we go. It's but two
days' trek. There the guilty will be punished before I guide you to
Lake Gron."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dandu Mot, a gray-maned sarif, stepped forward. "No," he said simply.
"We will not go back. The innocent would die with the guilty. And our
children and women would be driven out of the settlement stripped of
even our poor store of tools and food."

Hardan frowned. Dandu Mot was right. The justice of the Consars on the
frontier was severe. They would make of this revolt a lesson for all
that might follow along the arid dusty way from Wetland to Wetland.
Even he, as guide and leader of the wagon train, might be killed.

The old man came closer, his faded green eyes pleading.

"We did not wish to revolt," he said. "It was Nitka Porn and his men
who murdered the Consars. Perhaps beyond the Malsalm Range other
Wetlands lie...."

His voice trailed off. Hardan's eyes swept over the oddly assorted
throng of sarifs and craftsmen, poor oppressed men seeking a new and
freer life beyond the Drylands. Could he see these sad-faced women made
widows needlessly? And what of the young ones, their soft pelts as yet
devoid of the scantiest of silky fur?

"I must yield," he said soberly. "And beyond the eastern uplands there
does lie a sea. Only one Wetlander has ever looked upon it--Jaff Ka!"
He paused. "By the grace of Ung Roth and Zo Aldan we may win through."

"There are Drylanders?"

Hardan nodded. "Drylanders who hide in watered valleys and war on all
who venture there. Strange monsters, demons of Thog Molog, so say the
Drylanders, lurk in the darkness to kill. And winged _soraps_ that
carry off half-grown children and woolly bladts."

"You know the way?"

"I have ridden across the Plateau of Fire to the Plains of Niid, Dandu
Mot, but never to the Bitter Sea. But Jaff Ka told me the way."

"So let it be," said the old sarif, stroking his blistered cheek
thoughtfully. "And, if we die in the Drylands--we at least die free!"

He turned to his followers. "Seize the followers of Nitka Porn and bind
them. Tonight we will try them."

Swords and knives flashed. Clubs smashed and battered, and a moment
later seven groaning men were led away. Four others of the red-bearded
sarif's followers would walk no more, anywhere.

Hardan turned sharply on his heel and headed for the two wagons of the
priests of Ung Roth Ka. His dehydrated body cried out for a soaking in
the built-in tank in the wagon's middle. Only by frequent immersions
and water-soaked outer shells of cloth could the Wetlanders endure the
arid wastelands for more than a few hours.

A line of wounded, bruised men were already at the wagon, the two
priests in their hooded orange cloaks attending to their hurts. And
with the priests worked their gentle-faced wives, the priestesses of
Zo Aldan Ra, the god's beloved mate. Hardan's blood pounded fast as
he caught a glimpse of the white-robed novice, Ylda Rusla, bearing a
steaming basin of water in her dainty hands.

"Hardan!" cried the girl, her soft green eyes lighting up, "you escaped
death! You will take us back to Tarn--to safety?"

The frontiersman smiled down at the lithe full-breasted woman facing
him. Even the soggy vurth-padded garments and the coarse white robe
could not conceal the perfection of her body and face.

He shook his head.

"We go into the Malsalm Range," he told her, "and beyond."

"Not even to Lake Gron!" Ylda's face was ghastly. "But, I must--surely
you could send me back."

"Sorry," Hardan muttered, "but you cannot leave us now. The wagon train
must disappear--as though the Drylanders had attacked and destroyed it."

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl's eyes flamed. "I command you to take me back to Aba!" Her
foot stamped down imperiously.

"Ylda, believe me, I would if it were possible. But the lives of us all
depend on absolute secrecy. No word of this train must ever reach the
Consars of Tarn."

Ylda's small chin lifted and she turned her back, the hot water
slopping down across her robe. She headed blindly back toward the
wagons. Hardan shrugged, an empty pit in his middle. Any hope that he
might win the beautiful novice from her devotion to Zo Aldan Ra was
gone now.

He hurried past the wagons and down the blue clay slope to the fresh
waters of the Gron River. For the moment he wanted no conversation with
the priestly healers of the wagon train--or anyone else....


                                  II

His body soaked luxuriously in the shady pool beyond a looming jut of
reddish granite. Were his lungs drinking in the moist richness of the
Upper Sea, the vurth-maintained mistiness above the true seas of Osar,
he might have thought he was back in Tarn.

The Wetlands of Tarn were a handful of islands and a narrow
thirty-mile-wide strip of foggy tropical plains and forests along the
true sea of Tarn. Over the sea and back over the mainland extended the
upper sea, a false sea of floating aerophyte growth, tenuous and frothy
as spun threads of silvery moonbeams; yet capable of retaining a vast
amount of moisture and warmth.

For almost a mile it extended upward, its delicate tendrils touching
the restless sea and the fertile moistness of the land alike to draw
life from them. It offered no resistance to the passage of men or
ships; yet it shielded them from the harshness of the vast ringed sun
of Osar.

And here four million Wetlanders lived and built their dank
massive-walled cities. Half of them were Tarns, ruled by the Council
of Consars, and across the vastness of the Tarn Sea four other
smaller kingdoms fought and squabbled over their narrow strips of
vurth-shielded Wetland.

The land was overcrowded and so it came about that a few hardy
adventurers pushed out into the Drylands. At first they followed the
rivers, their bodies slowly toughening to the actinic rays of the
direct sunlight, and later they struck out into the unknown dryness of
grassy plains and deserts. They fought the huge apish Drylanders and
ate the hairless horned ulfo of the plains and the woolly bladts of the
barren hills.... And they found Lake Gron, where a large central island
offered new homes for thousands of impoverished Consars and their
sarifs.

So it was that endless series of wagon trains, drawn by domesticated
Dryland beasts, maars and ulfos, pushed up the Aba River, and the Gron
River beyond the dam at Aba, to the upland lake. And the hardy men
of the frontier guided them--even as Earthmen ten centuries before,
and a thousand light-years distant, had guided their effete Eastern
countrymen into the Rockies and beyond....

Hardan stirred at last and climbed, refreshed, from his pool. Darkness
had come and a dozen fires blazed merrily within the ringed double
walls of the roofed wagons. He gathered up his weapons and clothing,
wearing only the thin inner jerkin and trunks against the dryness of
the night air, and went to the wagons.

Before dawn the wheels were rumbling and grinding up over the
rock-strewn ridge above the river headed out into the eastern
grasslands. The sleeping tanks, where the Wetlanders slept on moist
elevated pads of vurth, were full and the spare water tanks were loaded
as well. A dry trek of three, possibly four, days lay ahead of them
before they could reach the eastward branching of the Aba River.

Hardan and three of the young sarifs stayed behind as the train moved
away, readying the ten oldest wagons and the discarded equipment
for the fire that was to help cover their tracks. Later parties
of Wetlanders would find the ashes of wagons and the fire-blasted
skeletons of men beside the trail and presume this had been a massacre
by the apish barbarians of the plains.

"I wish the council of sarifs had ordered the death of Nitka Porn last
night," said a blocky young sarif uneasily. "If they escape during the
night there will be trouble."

Hardan touched his torch to the wagon they approached. The others were
already ablaze. Together they swung into the saddles of their snorting
maars. Only then did he speak.

"Yes, Malth Jed," he agreed. "It seemed to me that the council feared
Nitka's wrath even though he was a prisoner. For that reason I advised
Dandu Mot to double the guard."

"There was light from the fires last night," argued Malth Jed. "Why
wait for daylight to slice their necks?"

"I do not believe all Porn's followers are prisoners," Hardan said
grimly. "They may hope to free Nitka Porn and recapture the wagon
train. Any delay would help that plot."

"Fools," grunted Malth Jed shortly. "The red-bearded one would turn on
them even as he turned on the Consars."

By this time the other two sarifs had joined them on the rim of the
bluff above the river. The wagons blazed up brightly, their sun-dried
wood and cloth burning fiercely. With the morning sun only a smoking
huddle of ashes and twisted metal would remain.

Hardan reined away from the bluff. They made too perfect targets
against the illumination of the fire. But suddenly he arrested the
little party's advance with a hiss of warning.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the pale darkness before them the sound of distant shouts and
shrieks came to them. The caravan was being attacked--or the outlaw
sarifs had been freed!

"Spread out," Hardan commanded tensely, "as we reach the wagons. That
way we will present a poorer target."

He dug his heels into the maar's sleek sides and they galloped forward
along the rutted broad track of the wagon train.

The fighting had ended by the time they traversed the half mile gap
that lay between them. The wagons were halted in a jumbled confused
S-shaped tangle in the growing dawn. Only a sullen silence greeted
them, but they saw dark movement against the slant-roofed bulk of the
wagons.

"Hold!" warned Hardan. "Let me ride forward. It may be a trap."

And then, from a clump of wagons further along the snaking train, a
maar and rider pounded out into the grasslands and headed in their
direction. A man shouted something, and a confused chorus of yells
answered him. After the lone rider a dozen other mounted men raced.

"It's a woman!" Malth Jed grunted, his bow ready in his thick fingers.
"The white-robed novice of Zo Aldan Ra."

"Then they've overcome Dandu Mot and freed the red-bearded one," Hardan
muttered, readying his own weapons.

The girl rode swiftly closer. The four riders went to meet her, their
swords loosened in their sheaths and their spears in their hands.
Only Malth Jed relied on his heavy hunting bow as a weapon; the others
preferred throwing spears and swords.

"Hardan!" shrieked Ylda, "behind you!"

The frontiersman twisted in his saddle, a throwing spear grazed his
vurth-padded shoulder, and he found himself facing the hate-twisted
features of the two sarifs who had accompanied him. The strength of
Nitka Porn in the wagon train must have been considerable, he thought
ruefully, as he crossed swords with the lanky sarif on his left.

The sarif was no swordsman, the cowardly spear had been his only hope,
and even as he turned his terrified eyes briefly toward his fellow an
arrow bristled from the other sarif's throat. He shrieked and hurled
his sword at Hardan even as he dug his heels into the maar's flanks. He
went racing away, blood streaming from his sword-pierced upper arm.

Malth Jed reined closer. "Wound you?" Hardan shook his head.

"They killed Dandu Mot--many others--one of the holy healers who
rebuked them--and now they loot the wagons." The girl's lips quivered
as she spoke breathlessly.

"I guess you get your wish now, Ylda Rusla," he said grimly. "We ride
back to Aba to ask for troops to pursue Nitka Porn."

Further conversation was impossible. The first pursuers, augmented now
by a score or more of men on foot, were upon them. Spears and arrows
were dropping around them as they wheeled their maars about to escape.

Ylda's maar went down, squealing horribly, a spear in her belly, and
the girl was hurled over her mount's head into the tangled coarseness
of the yellow ulfo grass. Before Hardan could swing back to scoop the
unconscious body of Ylda from the ground their pursuers had reached her
and surrounded her.

Hardan rode into them, hewing and slashing with his twin swords,
letting his maar move as she willed. Blood splashed and spurted before
his maddened blows, and the rebellious sarifs fell back momentarily.
Ylda screamed. He saw a sarif on foot hoist the girl's struggling form
to a mounted man, a huge-bodied redbeard, and the rider's fist smashing
down at the juncture of rounded neck and fragile jaw.

Ylda went limp as Nitka Porn's blow landed and then the outlaw rode
away, waving a derisive fist at Hardan across the bulwark of mounted
men and attacking sarifs on foot.

He was battling for his life a second later. A spear found his body,
and then another. Arrows hailed upward at him, piercing his padded
limbs and drawing blood. In a moment he would be over-powered. Yet he
fought on, trying to break through the press of rebel sarifs to pursue
Ylda's captor.

"Hardan," a terrible voice roared above the shouts of his attackers,
"escape.... Outnumbered!"

A spark of sanity remained in his weary brain. And the words of Malth
Jed fanned it into life. His swords hissed, carving out a momentary
gap, and he sent his maar plunging back the way they had come. He
saw Malth Jed, sagging in his saddle, racing before him, and even
as he watched a feathered shaft jutted abruptly from between his
shoulderblades.

The stocky sarif slumped forward, clinging in his death agony to
the saddle, and so they rode away into the growing daylight of the
Drylands--a wounded cursing Wetlander and a jouncing bundle of dead
sinews and bone that had once been a man....

       *       *       *       *       *

Two hands of days had passed before Hardan dared leave the sheltered
cave beside the Gron River not far from the ashes of the abandoned
wagons. The two maars had pastured in a grassy hidden ravine and there
too had he buried the stocky body of Malth Jed.

Then he had taken up the trail of the wagons again, and, despite the
soreness of his half-healed wounds, come up with them in a matter of
three days riding. He found them camped at the Isr River junction.

So now he lay on his belly in the early twilight, peering down into the
rough circle of wagons, his eyes searching for the white-robed form of
the girl he loved.

At last he saw her with one of the priests and a priestess sitting
beside a small cooking fire apart from the others. But she no longer
wore the garb of a novice. Instead she wore the green cloak of a Consar
over her bulky vurth-stuffed coverings. A moment later he saw that her
legs were linked by a short length of chain, riveted to either ankle by
a cuff of metal. And across the fire squatted an armed man, a guard.

Hardan was puzzled at her change of garb, but his blood pounded with
joy as he saw her apparently unharmed and well-fed. With the coming of
darkness he could rescue her, and, Ung Roth willing, the priests and
their wives as well.

So he set out looking for a concealed pathway to the river's edge and a
thousand feet further downstream came upon a sheer gorge cut into the
clay and soft gray rock of the bluff. Down this he lowered himself and
in the increasing gloom made his way to the river and submerged.

He swam upstream, silent as a hunting _prel_, his only weapons his two
swords. His spear and the excess garments he had left on the little
sunken bowl of grass where his maars grazed.

Like a great Dryland Ape of the woodlands he crept up from the water at
last, his only shelter the waist-high clumps of ulfo grass that dotted
the river's shingly bank. And he won at last inside the carelessly
guarded ring of wagons to the small fire where Ylda sat silently and
stared into the flames.

From the shelter of a great double-spoked wheel he studied the camp.
Well for the fleeing sarifs, he thought, that no raiding party of
Drylanders had come to attack. He heard them quarreling and shouting
drunkenly, and saw their swords and other weapons heaped carelessly
beside the fires as they ate and caroused.

The guard spat impatiently into the fire and ran a dry tongue over his
parched lips. Longingly he studied the growing excitement at the center
of the encampment. There was nothing to do here, only the priest and
priestess discussing the strange healing property of a vegetable mold
recently discovered in Tarn. He slapped his hip, cursed roughly, and
climbed to his feet.

"Don't stir from the fire," he ordered Ylda fiercely. His tongue poked
thirstily at his lips.

The guard swaggered away from the fire toward the curtain-hung rear of
the wagon just ahead. This wheeled canvas-and-wood shack had a sagging
roof sloping from a central ridge to either end of the box so that a
sort of awning covered the low rear entrance. He reached inside and
when his arm emerged a basket-woven jar was in his hand, its inner
earthware lining containing a sloshing fluid.

Hardan scented the raw reek of alcohol, of _garack_, as he crept
closer. The guard's thick lips smacked, he rubbed a rasping fist across
his mouth and snorted appreciatively. Then the jar tilted again,
gurgled.

The guide sprang, his fingers clamping about the startled throat of the
sarif. He squeezed hard, choking back the gasp of terror, and the jug
crashed to the hard ground. Then his fist chopped in a short vicious
punch to the sarif's neck that felled the man.

He trussed the sarif swiftly with his own filthy brown cape, stuffing a
generous handful into the gaping mouth, before he crossed to the fire
and squatted in the guard's place.

Ylda came to her feet, hand to her mouth.

"Hardan!" She came toward him jerkily, the chain making her take
mincing, careful steps.

"Sit down," he told her. "And warn your friends to keep their places."
The priest and the priestess smiled quietly.

"Fear nothing from us," they told him. "Our calling is to heal the
bodies and minds of the sick. It was for that mighty Ung Roth Ka came
from the greater of the four moons to dwell among men. We care nothing
for the quarrels and jealousies of men."

"Though," added the priestess, "as a woman and not a servant of Zo
Aldan Ra, I hope you escape safely."

The priest nodded, his eyes twinkling. "We are yet only human. Though
we will not use violence yet we can give advice and appeal to our
mighty master in your behalf."

Hardan bowed, his hand making the respectful sign of a believer on the
great god of healing. "I will bind you before we leave," he said,
"unless you will come with us."

The priest shook his head. "There are many sick and fearful in the
train," he said, "we remain to aid them."

Hardan turned to Ylda. "After I break your chain slip beneath the wagon
and through the grass to the river. I will follow."

He arose and came over to her as though to examine her bonds. His hands
clamped the chain and he tested the hand-forged links. One of them
twisted and spread apart. Quickly he wrapped a strip of her green cape
around either length of chain and her leg.

Ylda slipped away. Hardan busied himself binding the priest and
priestess of the only gods and then followed. Almost he had reached
the river when the silvery light of the four moons of Osar shone from
beneath a pear-shaped cloud above the distant eastern hills.

Instantly the river flats were lighted bright as their beloved
Wetlands. And a guard, rousing from his half-sleep in the white
brilliance, saw Hardan's moving shape. He cried a warning.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hardan knew the need for stealth was gone now. He ran to the river
bank where Ylda waited, took her hand, and flung himself out into the
sluggish muddy stream. He swam directly across and there, taking her
in his arms, headed into the vine-tangled growth of scrub _ossa_ and
knotty _brel_. And at its edge he halted long enough to send a shout of
defiance back at the clustering sarifs.

After that he wasted no more breath. Downstream he threaded his way
until a crook in the river piled a welcome wall of blue clay and shale
between the camp and them. Here he again took to the river and a few
minutes later they were running breathlessly across the moonlit plain
beyond toward the hidden maars.

"Tricked them that time," chuckled Hardan, saddling their mounts.
"We'll circle eastward toward the Blue Malsalms and then head back
toward Aba."

Ylda put her slim fingers on Hardan's arm and squeezed. It told him,
more than words, that she was happy to have escaped and that as yet she
was breathless.

He lifted her into the saddle and then mounted himself. It was so easy
now--a day's ride away from the river and then a southward swing until
they could head directly westward back toward Aba and the river trail
to the Wetlands....

       *       *       *       *       *

The rocky escarpment loomed closer and closer as they drove their
lathered maars up the boulder-strewn slope. Ylda turned for a hasty
glance backward.

"They're gaining, Hardan," she shouted.

"It'll be night soon," Hardan called back, "and the Drylanders fear
darkness." But his eyes probed vainly for a way of escape ahead.

His mouth twisted wryly as he recalled his plan of the preceding
night. At midday a mounted party of the giant Drylanders, savage
yellow-haired, apish brutes, had sighted them and for the last five
hours they had found safety only in swift flight. Now, unless a gorge
or pass opened in the looming grayness of the brown-splotched cliffs,
they were trapped at its base.

Already the triumphant scrawling of the Drylanders sounded in their
ears as the ape-things fanned out on either hand. Once that curved line
pinned them against the cliff they were trapped, to be killed or, if
captured alive, saved for sacrifice to the foul god of the Drylands,
Thog Molog.

The sheer escarpment loomed higher and more forbidding as they neared
it. Hardan felt his chest grow hollow as the last prospect of escape
dwindled. All that remained now was to find a vantage point above their
pursuers and sell their lives dearly. To be taken alive was unthinkable.

A huge flat-topped boulder shouldered the cliff, its rim twenty feet
above the sandy soil, and toward this Hardan led the way. It was a
natural fort that they might hold until darkness clamped down.

Hardan rode his maar close up to the rock, where a crevice split
several feet diagonally down the face of the boulder, and swung up from
the saddle. A moment later he was crouched on the rock helping Ylda to
his side.

Their maars moved away only a few paces and started grazing on the
sparse-leaved clumps of ossa and brel at the cliff's base. Hardan
turned, facing the cliff, and now he saw an opening in the cliff wall
where the boulder's flat rim touched it. It was a low oval of darkness
going back deep into the cliff's heart, a cave entrance hid by the
great rock.

"In, quickly," he ordered Ylda, "before the Drylanders arrive."

And hardly had they reached that welcome shelter than the huge warriors
came thundering up to the cliff.

At sight of the empty saddles the Drylanders growled their amazement,
their guttural meager speech carrying excited overtones of
superstitious terror. Hardan understood enough of their brutish gabble
to learn that they believed their monster god, Thog Molog, had carried
them away.

Then keen tiny eyes discovered the flat-roofed boulder and a moment
later their shadowy hiding place was discovered. Instantly the hushed
mutterings and moans of awe changed to roars of rage. They came
swarming up over the rock.

Hardan met them with arrows and spears. The first wave of attackers
fell back, only to launch a second and more powerful assault. This time
they swung up to the boulder-top together and the Wetlander dropped
back into the cave-mouth, his twin swords bared.

The apish giants crouched down and came raging at him, only to be
spitted on his flashing blades until the opening was choked with bloody
chilling flesh. Their comrades dragged the bodies backward and once the
orifice was cleared flung themselves at him again.

His swords bit deep, drinking the life of Drylander after Drylander
until at last the assault ceased. Darkness had fallen and the great
brutes had lost their stomach for further battle. So they withdrew,
taking their dead with them, and built three fires of dry brush and
cactus about the uprear of the huge rock.

[Illustration: _His swords bit deep, drinking their lives._]

"And that's that tonight," panted Hardan, wiping his swords
mechanically of the blood that smirched their keen blades.

In the darkness Ylda's soft hands ran over his arms and chest searching
for wounds. His blood ran hot as her soft flesh met his.

"You're untouched!" she cried, unbelieving.

"Had all the advantage," Hardan scoffed. "But if we're here when the
sun rises again--we won't be so lucky."

Ylda peered out, her eyes reading the purpose of the three fires.
Placed so they effectively ruled out any escape in the darkness, the
Drylanders on guard would see instantly any movement atop the rock. Her
breath caught in her throat and she clung to Hardan's sweat-damp body.

"We'll try the cave," Hardan told her thickly, very conscious of her
intimate nearness. "It may have another entrance higher or beyond the
cliff."

Roughly he broke away from the girl and started back into the darkness,
his swords probing the gloom. And behind him he heard the girl
following. The floor was uneven, rough patches of rock, and so, she
stumbled before she had come a dozen paces.

After that her hand clung to his crossed sword-belts as the way climbed
gradually higher.

Echoes of their passage grew more distant. The cavern roof and walls
must be drawing away on all sides. Hardan licked his dry lips and the
parched dryness of his vurth-padded body sapped his strength. They
halted for a moment to finish the last of their water bags and munch a
tough strip of dried ulfo meat before pushing on.

"We must find water soon," whispered Ylda faintly, "or I am finished."

And a short distance further along Hardan felt her fingers slip from
their grip on his belt. She lay silent and limp on the rocky floor,
her soft skin harsh and dry as the Dryland hills, and her cracked lips
moaning.

He lifted her and staggered onward. His years in the Drylands had
toughened his flesh and lungs to withstand the arid violence of the
grasslands for several hours, but even yet he must sleep in or near
water at night. He suffered mightily, his lungs on fire and his throat
a dust-rasping channel. Like a man in a grotesque nightmare of torture
he felt his wooden limbs move uncertainly far below him.

Only when the stars were above him and he felt the welcome fluidity
of water about his parched ankles did he halt and lower the girl. The
water was chill but his thirsty body sucked at it greedily.


                                  III

The huge ringed sun of Osar was yet hugging the rim of the ragged
Malsalm's peaks to the east when he awoke, shivering despite the thick
dampness of his vurth-stuffed covering. Behind him, wedged against the
rocky shelf and protected by a down-curving slab of rock, huddled Ylda.

He slipped off his thick shell and heaped it on the girl's sleeping
body for additional warmth and stepped out, naked as go the men of the
Upper Seas in their moist-walled cities and lush meadows. As yet the
sun was not too warm for his sleek-furred flesh.

They had come up from the cliff to a narrow long plateau atop it. A
shallow rocky lake was at their feet and a stream came down from a
snow-capped peak in the southern distance to feed its chill moistness.
Abruptly he remembered the cave and the yellow-haired Dryland giants
who trailed them.

A long crevice rifted the floor of the miniature tableland not far from
the lake's brim. Perhaps in the rainy season the overflow of the lake
found escape there, but now it was dry, a crude staircase dipping down
into the gloomy abyss that was the cave they had traversed. Hardan
sensed the immensity of the void beneath, the whole cliff must be a
honeycomb of caverns and subterranean passages.

The sound of horny bare feet and the rubbing of metal on the leather of
harness warned him that the Drylanders had overcome their aversion of
the darkness enough to trail them. He caught a glimpse of a moving blob
of blackness that could only be them a hundred feet and more below.

Hardan laughed. The rift was walled with heaps of rocky debris,
boulders brought down from the poles in glacial eras and sections of
splintered igneous rock. He put his arm and shoulder against them and
heaved. He sang lustily as he worked.

One after another they fell, the smaller ones entering the crevice and
bounding downward to rip the climbing Drylanders from their hold; the
others clogging forever the way from below. He rolled a last rounded
boulder of green-shot basaltic origin and turned, hand at his sword.

Ylda was standing there, his vurth-padded garment's ugliness in
her extended hands. She smiled, her eyes warm in the shadow of her
wide-rimmed quilted headgear of vurth. Suddenly Hardan was aware of the
growing intensity of the morning sunlight parching his down-covered
flesh. In his excitement he had forgotten the blistering sun.

He slipped quickly into the coverall-like covering, its dampness doubly
welcome after his exposure to the deadly atmosphere of the Drylands,
and went with her to the rim of the narrow flat-roofed ridge where they
had climbed.

"We can't go back, Ylda," he told her, his hand pointing out the way
they had come up across the arid lands from the Isr River.

Ylda's eyes swung northward and then on around to the south again. She
shuddered and Hardan sensed her terror of this molten naked hell of
tortured rock and waterless slope that hemmed them in.

"We'll follow this stream up to its source," he went on after a moment,
"and then find another that flows westward toward the Gron or the Aba.
Nothing to it."

The girl's lips twisted in a tremulous attempt at a smile.

"Hardan," she said, "before you start back with me I must tell you why
I was held captive by the rebelling sarifs."

Hardan shook his head, his mind raging. There could be only one reason
for her to be in chains. Nitka Porn had wanted her and until she would
consent to be his woman she might escape. That could be the only truth,
he thought, and he wanted to hear nothing about it.

"But I must tell you, Hardan, before you--before we--leave the
mountains. I was going to Lake Gron to meet my lover. He is a Consar,
Serid Jern."

"Serid Jern!" snapped out Hardan. "That beak-nosed gray-haired old
wastrel! You mean you--he was your lover?"

"But let me explain. It's not what you think. There is nothing wrong.
He is a Consar and my father...."

"Enough." Hardan jerked her along by the arm. "I wish to hear no more
about it. You are young and knew no better. When we reach Aba I will
carry you away in the lawful manner."

Ylda's slight body stiffened and she pulled away from Hardan angrily.
"Don't touch me again, ever!" she cried.

Hardan shrugged and headed off up the lake toward the stream that fed
it. If the obstinate little sarif girl wanted to follow him let her.
He had almost forgotten that he was born into an impoverished Consar
family, these last few years, but now he remembered the vast social
gulf between them. Yet he would gladly have given up his rank had Ylda
agreed to mate with him.

And now she scorned him. It was as though she were the Consar and
he the sarif. The months she must have spent with the priests and
priestesses of Ung Roth and Zo Aldan had given her a false conception
of a woman's place on Osar.

Let her have her soft-bellied old lover in Gron Lake. She'd get her
fill of battling the half-dozen other sarif girls he'd collected there
already....

Hardan's knuckles whitened on the handles of his swords, and he cursed
all the Serid Jerns of the Wetlands.

       *       *       *       *       *

Abruptly he came to a halt. Beside the rough trail he followed a
peculiar-looking dwarfish creature lay sleeping at the stream's brink.
His body was hairless, save on the top of his skull and under his nose
and on his cheeks, and he was weaponless save for a short thick bow and
a club. A cloak of muddy green covered his tattered unpadded coveralls.

Hardan stirred the sleeping creature with his toe and it sat up. He
spoke to it in Tarnish, and in the scanty tongue of the great Dryland
Apes. And at this the sunken monkeylike little eyes blinked with a
certain measure of intelligence. It rose to its meager six feet of
height and faced him.

"I am called Kern Rensom," he cried shrilly. "I am from Aarth," his
puny arm made an indefinite circling motion. "Long ago we came to Osar
to conquer it all."

Hardan grinned. "Little Drylanders like you better keep hid or the
winged soraps will carry you off. You couldn't lick a couple of
bladts."

The little Aarthman's arms and body flashed into movement so swift that
Hardan could not see what was happening. He felt himself flying through
the air and jolted down a dozen paces away, his breath gone. He heard
Ylda's amused laughter, and the sound spurred him to bound to his feet
and leap toward the little man.

Ylda cried out in protest--the Aarthman had drawn no weapon but stood
with arms folded--and Hardan's pace slowed. He could not run through a
man who would not protect himself.

"Take up your club!" he cried savagely, "or one of my swords!"

The little man grinned impishly, his wide mouth red in the uncouth
tangle of his scrubby brown whiskers.

"Try to hit me," he invited.

Hardan's anger overcame his scruples. He swung his right hand sword in
an arc that would have bit a respectable nick out of the Aarthman's
shoulder. And the sword seemed to freeze in midair!

He fought against the paralysis that froze his muscles. Sweat salted
his face and body as he threw all his strength into the effort, but
he could not stir. Nor could he move his legs or the other arm. After
a long moment of struggle he recognized his efforts were useless and
ceased his frantic mental commands. And in that instant his body was
free again.

"Are you a man or one of the devil-things of Thog Molog?" he demanded
fearfully, sheathing his blade.

"I am like yourself, Hardan Synn," said the little man, amused. "But I
have mental power that you of Osar cannot comprehend. It is the only
weapon of Aarth we are permitted to use."

"You--you called me by name!" Hardan cried out. "Now I know you are of
Thog Molog's foul brood. Only a devil-thing could be at once so puny
and so hideous."

"You are wrong, Hardan," and now Kern Rensom used words that were a
blend of Dryland and Wetland speech. "I can look into your mind and
understand what you think. Even now I can tell you that you misjudge
Ylda Rusla."

"No!" broke in the girl, "please keep silent, strange man."

Kern Rensom shrugged. "As you wish," he said. He turned to Hardan again.

"Perhaps you can come with me to my home valley before returning to
Aba." He laughed at the unspoken refusal in Hardan's brain. "We have a
small lake in the crater covered with an upper sea of vurth," he added.

"Why not?" demanded Ylda. "For too long have I breathed the harsh
upland air. To move unencumbered through the soft dampness of the vurth
sea would be heaven."

Hardan nodded doubtfully. "Very well," he said. "But remember it means
the revolting sarifs may escape beyond the Blue Balsalms."

"I hope they do," flashed Ylda, "and you do too. Most of the sarifs are
good people. Even if Nitka Porn and a few others escape punishment the
innocent ones will escape."

"That's settled then." Hardan turned to the Aarthman. "Lead off, Kern
Rensom."

       *       *       *       *       *

And so they started off eastward across the mountains and bare
reddish-veined slopes of the blue ridges, the tiny Aarthman leading.
All forenoon they walked, pausing often beside the stream to soak
their padded garments and gather the sparse scattering of brown-husked
berries from bushes in the sheltered angles of the little watercourse.

Toward noon they left the swift little stream and crossed a steep slope
of treacherous yellow shale and broken rock to a slope that carried
them down toward a vast sunken bowl, an extinct crater, in whose heart
the misty outlines of a small lake nestled grayly. That it was roofed
with vurth there could be no question, and thereafter Hardan forgot
most of his suspicions that the stranger meant them evil.

"It was there," Kern Rensom said, his finger pointing out a squatty
ovoid of darker rock, "that our ship from beyond the stars landed. It
was broken, and all save two women and one man died."

"You came from up there?" demanded Ylda. "Then you are of the race of
the true gods, Zo Aldan and Ung Roth?"

The Aarthman shook his head. "No, we are mortals. I have read your
mind and learned about your gods. Perhaps your gods, too, were mortals
from another world who landed here safely on Osar."

Hardan's ears tingled at such heresy. And yet he was forced to admit
what the little man said was logical. He knew that many of the wisest
Wetlanders did not believe in Thog Molog and the devil-things, nor
did he suppose the Drylanders believed in the power of Zo Aldan and
Ung Roth. It was true the two gods had come from the outer moons in a
strange metallic ship.

"Why then," he asked, "did you not conquer the Drylands? Was it not for
that you came to Osar?"

Kern Rensom tugged at his scrubby beard. "We were too few at first. And
when there were a thousand of us we tried to use the weapons and tools
we had sealed away, but we had forgotten. All the juice that powered
them had seeped away. Nor could we repair them."

"But you have books," insisted Hardan. "They would tell you."

The little man was shamefaced. "While we waited; hunting, building our
city, and tilling our fields, we forgot how to read. For many centuries
we have lived on a level but little above that of the Drylanders."

Hardan swore with amazement. Despite their wonderful mental power these
Aarthmen were little better than ignorant savages. Perhaps if he could
bring a few wise men from the Wetlands to this valley and have them
work with the Aarthmen they could reconstruct that forgotten language
and learn to build ships that flew in the air.

With great ships like theirs the journey from Wetland to Wetland would
be simple and all Osar would be opened to them. No longer would they
be forced to haul sleeping tanks of water by slow wagons across the
dry-grassed plains....

       *       *       *       *       *

The trail wound aimlessly, it seemed to Hardan, down into the vast
circular abyss of the crater. And after a time, as they neared the
lower slopes, he saw the Aarthman scratch his shaggy brown head in
apelike fashion, and stop.

"You've lost your way," he told Kern.

Kern Rensom nodded. "I escaped from a small band of Roons, the
Drylanders who dwell on the slopes above our craters, two days ago. I
was hunting on the northern side and was forced to circle southward to
where you found me."

"But if we continue downward we must come to your city," Hardan said,
puzzled. "Why do you hesitate?"

"All Smeth Valley is surrounded by a high wall, Hardan, built by
my people. But on the southern inner slope for more than a mile an
ancient, higher wall was there. A wall circling down to the lake.

"Since we came to Smeth Valley only a few men have ventured beyond that
wall, and of them all only one returned--a madman!"

"You think we are approaching that section then?" Hardan laughed and
his hands found comforting grip on his sword hilts. "Nothing could lie
beyond there save deserted ruins," he scoffed.

"Perhaps we could walk along the wall's rim," Kern said, disregarding
Hardan's laughter, "until we passed the walled-in section. The ridges
on either side crowd up to the wall so it would be our only path."

"That'd be better than climbing up again," agreed Hardan.

And so, a dozen tortuous bends in the deepening ravine they followed,
later, they fronted the soaring smooth-jointed face of a gigantic wall.
At their feet the dry bed of the ravine ended in solid granite, and on
either hand the ravine's walls lifted sheer for fifty feet and more.

Try as they would they could not climb the craggy walls. Apparently
they were to be forced to return back along the way they had come and
find some new path to the lower crater depths.

Ylda cried out and pointed to the lower part of the pierced vertical
slab set in the wall before them. The scanty flow of freshets here in
the uplands had slowly worn away a larger hole, a process that must
have consumed unthinkable centuries, until even a Wetland warrior could
have wriggled through.

Hardan nodded. He too had seen the opening but did not want to suggest
using it. The Aarthman's fantastic tale had affected him more than he
cared to admit. Now he knelt down and thrust his head carefully through
the orifice.

"Just a grassy slope," he called back, his voice loud with relief.
"Down by the lake there's a jumble of rock slabs and columns, could be
a city. Not even any trees until the upper sea begins."

He withdrew his head and slid through feet-first, dropping into a deep
wide rocky pocket gouged out by the ravening mountain torrents. Ylda
followed, slipping into his arms easily, but her face turned away
stiffly as he set her on her feet. Hardan growled and turned away,
disgusted at the little sarif's continued show of dislike.

"Hurry up, Kern Rensom," he said.

The Aarthman's be-whiskered face appeared. Under that brushy brown
stubble his brown skin had paled to a strangely green shade.

"I don't know," he said uncertainly. "The Drylanders claim this is the
abode of Thog Molog. I've seen crude pictures of their god. It's a
many-armed ghastly monster bigger than a Drylander's communal _yad_."

       *       *       *       *       *

Hardan too sensed the alien silence and remoteness of this
close-cropped expanse of sward. Almost he expected to see a flock
of the woolly, vari-colored bladts grazing there, so close was the
brook-watered grass trimmed to its roots. Something, ancient foul
things, must lurk in those brooding ruins and come out in the moonlight
to eat. No grass could grow so uniform and short.

So they moved together, speaking no more, through the hushed silence of
growing dusk, into the shadows of the vast vertical mass of the ancient
wall that dipped southward. They searched for a way to scale that
soaring obstacle, vainly.

The rim of the upper sea, the false sea that was vurth floating lightly
above the true sea far below, they reached and Hardan felt the tingling
thrill of a stranger returning home as the delicate moist tendrils
contacted his exposed flesh. He heard Ylda's sigh of sensuous ecstasy
as she sucked in the dank richness of the confined atmosphere, and he
heard the Aarthman breathing unsteadily as though half-choked.

"How you can stand this pea-soup," came the little man's strangled
voice, "is beyond me. It's like walking underwater; yet breathing."

Hardan laughed and slipped out of his cumbersome padded garb. Now he
could climb the wall or fight more freely. The intangible unseen menace
of the walled city and fields now struck him with returned power. He
bound the suit into a pack on his shoulders and set about examining the
damp and crumbling wall. The moisture had loosened its ancient bonding
material and he found many foot and hand holds.

Swiftly he angled upward, his two companions following the way he had
found. Once he ran into a section of intact wall and was forced to turn
back, and Ylda swung upward along a new series of crevices, leading the
way. Hardan now brought up the rear instead of Kern Rensom.

The vurth ended, and even as they saw that less than twenty feet lay
between them and the wall's top, a hideous gagging squelching sound,
like a mud-wallowing drunkard venting his addled rage, sounded from
below.

Hardan turned to look down, his sword in his right hand and his feet
jammed in a shallow crack.

A vast bulk, indistinct in the failing light of the vanished sun, and
rendered yet more vague by the aerophytic sea that washed around its
lower body, reared there. Hardan sensed that the greasily smooth hide,
wet and slime-covered, was slate-gray, liberally splotched with patches
of ghastly pale yellow. He saw an inner gaping maw, its huge inner
jaws covered with bony serrated ridges, and in a deadly fringe about
this mouth a score or more of specialized tentacles stretched like
multi-jointed arms upward.

"Climb swiftly!" roared Hardan, "while I hold it back."

The tentacles slithered nearer, their gray snaky flesh ending at the
tips in sucker-like yellow-tinged discs. Hardan swung his weapon down
at the nearest and from the severed tentacle tip a steaming purplish
ichor spurted. And with its wound the burbling mouthings from below
redoubled.

The Wetlander sprang upward, a questing tentacle brushing his heel as
he found a new vantage point several feet higher, and then he sliced
through this leathery appendage's tip as well.

But now three of the tentacles wormed together at him, and though his
blade slashed off two of them, the third found his naked flesh and the
suction discs ripped at him. He clung to the wall, his discarded sword
clattering downward, but relentlessly the monster was dragging him from
his precarious perch.

He heard a sob at his side and his other sword was drawn from its
sheath even as his left hand lost its grip. Then he was released, the
tentacle tip yet clinging to his flesh, and he found Ylda tugging at
his arm. The Aarthman lowered his bow and Hardan pushed the trembling
girl up to him.

A moment later they were all three safe a scant four feet above those
questing hungry ropes of flesh, and Ylda was in his arms....


                                  IV

Moonlight silvered white the inner crater when they reached the Aarth
city. The gates were closed and Kern Rensom said they would not be
opened until the dawn. He guided them to a hunting estate owned by his
older brother, a well-to-do Aarthman farmer, that was not far from the
upper sea's rim and there they left him.

That night they slept in a soft mound of hastily gathered Wetland moss,
the thick wetness of the upper sea closing about them like a warm
blanket. And for long Hardan lay awake, his blood singing with the
knowledge that Ylda's love was his.

Their escape from the penned-in monster, the Drylanders' fabled Thog
Molog, had broken through the barriers of her false pride and she had
confessed that she loved him. And she had explained to him that she was
really the daughter of a noble landowner who had been courted by the
aging Serid Jern against her parents' wishes. She had disguised herself
as a sarif girl and joined the priestesses as a novice to reach Lake
Gron and her husband-to-be.

"But I am glad I met you, Hardan," she had whispered, "before I mated
with him. I could not have really loved him; only the glamour of his
wild frontier kingdom attracted me.

"Nor will my father object to my marrying a sarif. He holds that the
man himself is of more importance than his rank."

Hardan smiled, before he went to sleep, at the reversal in his
position. Now he was the sarif, rather than Ylda. Nor did he intend
to tell her of his equal rank until they stood together before her
father....

With morning they left the upper sea and with the Aarthman made their
way to the city. Here the diminutive men and women made much of them,
feting and dining them, and learning all they could of the Wetland
civilization they had never before contacted.

Kern Rensom showed them the buildings where the corroded tools of their
ancestors were stored so carefully, and he took them inside the twisted
wreckage of the space ship on the slope above the city. Most of all was
Hardan interested in the metallic-leaved books and stacks of circular
containers of record tape. Here was the secret of the Aarthmen if they
but had the key of written words to unlock it.

The pictures interested him as well. The Aarthmen owned several worlds:
cloud-swathed, green-clad continents and vurthless broad seas, and a
dying red world of deserts. And their sun was a tiny red ball without
the least sign of an outer solar ring. How much more beautiful was
Osar's generous ringed luminary, thought the Wetlander.

So it was that they spent day after day in the peaceful valley of the
Aarthmen, cementing the bonds of friendship that Hardan hoped would
release the forgotten knowledge of Aarth for both races. Almost had he
forgotten the toiling caravan of huge six-wheeled wagons that even now
must be traveling through the waterless desolation of the passes of the
Blue Malsalm Range to the north.

"You should be told, Hardan," Kern Rensom said, as the mounted
messenger rode off down the broad paved street, "that the wagon train
you guided has halted less than a day's journey to the north. And the
evil-brained sarif, Nitka Porn, has laid a trap for the small party of
soldiers who pursue them."

Hardan's eyes flashed. It was not enough that Nitka Porn had taken
over control of the train. Now he must slaughter more Wetlanders
instead of attempting escape. He realized that he must kill the
huge-bodied sarif before he could cause any more bloodshed and misery.
Perhaps there was yet time to rescue the doomed warriors.

"One of our hunters crept close enough to the wagon train to catch the
thoughts of Nitka Porn," the little man was saying. "The attack is to
be late today or in the morning."

"Kern Rensom!" cried Hardan, "could you get me a guide and maars to
take me to the soldiers?"

"I can do better," grinned the Aarthman. "I can come along. And bring a
score of warriors as well."

Hardan took his sword-belts down from their pegs and buckled them on.
He looked to his bow and replaced the somewhat frayed string. Then
he strode out the door to where the maars they had ridden earlier
in the morning were kept. And with him walked the little Aarthman,
clean-shaven now and dandified in embroidered blouse and wide-bottomed
trousers of woven blue fabric. He too was hooking on his harness of
knives, arrow quiver, and throwing club.

They mounted, pulling their desert robes from behind the saddles--this
last was an Aarth invention that shielded them from sunglare and
stinging sand flurries--and rode toward the poorer section of Smeth
City where hunters and warriors lived. Nor were they long in recruiting
a force of thirty mounted men and leaving the city behind.

Yet as they reached the great gate in the towering outer wall, the wall
that barred the lower crater to any but Aarthmen, a wide-hatted rider
with desert robes high about his face, awaited them. And as they filed
through the narrow slot the sliding gate-slab permitted this rider to
join the party.

Hardan rode close to the stranger and uncovered the shielded features.
He shrugged and shouted across to Kern Rensom.

"I might have known," he laughed. "It is Ylda."

"Why should I not go?" she demanded. "Perhaps it is my father or my
brother who commands the soldiers. They were to be assigned to the Aba
River command this term."

"So!" Hardan nodded. "You tire of us and wish to go with them. Or
perhaps you wish to find them so we can mate."

The high color that flooded Ylda's downy haired cheeks was answer
enough. Her chin elevated proudly, but she said nothing. And Hardan too
hoped her father was serving his year, every sixth year a Consar was
supposed to enter the armed forces of Tarn, for that much the sooner
could they be mated.

       *       *       *       *       *

Through the gate they rode and up increasingly dry barren slopes until
they reached the jumbled hell of ridges, splintered crevices, and
ragged gorges that lay above the crater's rim. They rode through the
midday heat, pausing but once to soak their dehydrated garments of
padded vurth in a cave-hidden pool, and then onward again until the
shadows on their right grew long and dark.

"It is near," the Aarthman who guided them said. He dismounted. "Here
we must leave our maars and proceed on foot if we are to surprise the
sarifs."

The little party obeyed, glad of the opportunity to stretch cramped
stiff limbs. They followed along a narrow shallow gorge to where it
opened into a larger sunken pass. Down there, in a rock-strewn boxlike
cavity, they saw movement.

"We are too late," Hardan muttered to Ylda. "Shiny leather shells and
metal caps are those of Wetland soldiers. It is they who are trapped in
that hollow."

Now they could see the sarifs just below their own vantage point. They
clustered at either end of the cliff-walled trap, their arrows and the
jagged boulders they had collected effectively barring any attempt
by the soldiers to cut their way through. Already more than half the
Tarnish fighting men were down, and it was but a matter of time until
the last of them died.

Further to the east, in a stream-watered little park, the wagons were
bulked in a rude circle. They were fewer now, less than thirty were
left of the original train, and they were patched and travel-stained.
"We had better divide, Kern Rensom," said Hardan thoughtfully. "You
take ten men and take cover above the western party. I will take the
others to capture the wagons and the other party."

"Good," agreed the little man from Aarth, and he started issuing orders
at once.

Taking advantage of whatever cover the broken nature of the uplands
afforded, the Aarthmen and the Wetlanders slipped downward toward the
sarifs. Nor were they detected before they had reached a bulging ridge
of flinty red rock twenty feet above them.

Hardan cupped his hands and shouted down at the fifteen ragged men
below, "Throw down your weapons, sarifs. You are surrounded."

The men turned, startled, to look upward into the eyes of twenty
strange little men and the two Wetlanders. Nor could they fail to see
the arrows that centered on their vitals. One by one they loosed their
bows and spears, their nerveless fingers twitching.

Nowhere could Hardan see Nitka Porn, though he counted five of the
rebel sarifs immediate underlings in the group.

"Where is Nitka Porn?" he demanded.

The sarifs stirred uneasily, their sullen green eyes shifting and
their tongues dabbing at blackened cracked lips. They were a hopeless,
stupid-looking crowd. From them the Drylands had sapped their strength
and sucked dry their brains. Nor had the browbeating of Nitka Porn been
without influence in this final result.

One of them, a broken-toothed oldster who feared the rebel sarif the
less because he was so near to death, stepped clumsily forward.

"He is at the wagons, Hardan." The reedy old voice trembled. "So
securely were the soldiers trapped that he knew they must die. He went
for wagons to carry the loot."

"Good, Vesko Rok," said Hardan. "Now I would ask you more. Come aside
with me."

The old sarif shuffled after Hardan out of earshot of the others.
Quickly he demanded the names of all the sarifs loyal to Nitka Porn in
this and the other group. Then he gave orders to separate the prisoners.

"Nolson," he said to one of the sturdy little men of Aarth, "I want you
to remain here with ten men. Guard well these seven sarifs."

The Aarthman's blue eyes were bright. "They will not escape," he said.

"The others we are taking back to the wagon train," Hardan told him,
and set out along the rugged path down toward the camp.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nitka Porn came riding out of the camp with two others of his men. They
were all three fat and healthy-looking. They had fared better than the
rest of the party, riding much of the day in the tank baths of the
wagons and eating the best of the food.

Behind them rolled three wagons, the teams of bony maars pulling them
driven by women. Apparently all the able-bodied sarif males had been
forced to join the ambushers.

When they came opposite the Aarthmen and the sarif prisoners stepped
out from their concealing boulders and rocks, the show of weapons by
the little hairless men of Aarth sufficient to make the whole force
seem armed.

"I want you, Nitka Porn." Hardan's voice was slow, his pent-up rage
well under control.

The huge sarif's freckled face was mottled with fear and hatred. His
yellowish-green eyes were baleful as he swung down from the saddle.
Hardan's ears heard a rush of feet and then a ghastly series of shrieks
and thuddings, and from the corner of his eye saw the other two horses
were now riderless. The sarifs were trampling at something underfoot
and the Aarthmen were turning away pale sickened faces from what was
there.

Ylda's hand was on his arm. "Take him prisoner," she begged. "Tarnish
justice will punish him. And he is so big, so brutal--you will be
killed!"

Hardan pushed gently at her arm. Nitka Porn was a spear's length away
now and his swords were drawn. Then, before Hardan could stop her, Ylda
had stepped between them.

"Surrender your weapons, Nitka Porn," she commanded imperiously, "and
you will live to see Aba."

Nitka's flat-nosed simian face snarled. "Surrender and be torn apart as
were they?" His head nodded toward the mumbling knot of crazed sarifs
beside the terrified maars. He laughed hoarsely, and with one great arm
swept the girl close.

One of his swords now pressed against the breast of Ylda, ready to
plunge deep into her vitals. He backed again toward his maar.

"At the first sign of attack," he told Hardan, "the woman dies."

He prepared to climb into the saddle, to ride away into the eastern
uplands that led toward the Desert of Niid and the Bitter Sea that had
been their goal. And then it was that Hardan remembered the strange
power of the Aarthmen.

No sooner had the thought been born in his brain than the little men
chuckled and their dejected faces brightened. Nitka Porn's body froze
immobile and slowly he spread his arms so the girl stepped free.

"Enough," Hardan called. "Release him and let him fight for his life."

"Better that we should make him slice his own throat," muttered one of
the Aarthmen, but unwillingly they complied.

And after a moment the dazed sarif picked up his dropped swords and
faced the unmoving Wetlander's gauntness. Trapped at last he was and
like a cornered sorap with broken wings he launched himself at Hardan.

Their swords met, clashed and sparks flew from their slithering blades.
They broke and circled again, each wary for an opening that the other
could not parry. Again and again the four swords rasped, yet from
neither man was any blood drawn, so evenly were they matched. Nitka
Porn's reach was the longer, but his bulk slowed down his speed, and it
was here that Hardan saw his advantage.

Slowly he must wear down the big man, and the dry air that the huge
Wetlander was not yet accustomed to breathing would do the rest. He
would weaken, grow clumsy, and then his blade would find an opening.

But this Nitka Porn must have sensed. He swung his swords in a
veritable hurricane of chopping steel and bore Hardan back against the
rearing maars of the foremost wagon. A maar's forefoot lashed out,
numbing Hardan's left shoulder, and the apish sarif's face glowed with
devilish satisfaction. The success of his strategy so pleased him that
he dropped his guard momentarily.

It was the opening Hardan needed. Gritting his teeth against the pain
and numbness of his bruised shoulder he lunged upward with his left
sword and his other blade darted in lightning strokes at the sarif's
middle. His left hand jarred limply from the sword grip, but Nitka Porn
staggered backward dying, the sword piercing deep into his eye-socket.

"Well done!" a hearty voice cried, and he turned to face a
leather-husked captain of the Tarnish Guard with his remaining five men.

Ylda gave a little cry and in a moment was in the soldier's arms. A hot
wave of jealousy burned within Hardan and then was gone.

"It is my father!" she cried gladly....

       *       *       *       *       *

The sun was high overhead when they rode toward the crater valley of
the Aarthmen where they were to spend another hand of days before
guiding the wagon train on its way to the Bitter Sea. And now their
purpose was to establish a treaty between Aarthmen and Wetlanders.
Nor did Hardan fear that his small friends would receive any but fair
treatment--their ability to read minds guarded them against that common
failing of expanding races, to take what they wanted by treachery.

"We will guide the train to the Bitter Sea," he told Ylda as he loosed
her from her bonds. "Some day all the Wetlands will be ours, and the
men of Aarth will rule the Drylands, and ships-that-fly will link us
together.

"But until then the trek must go on. Along this trail we are marking
out other wagons will follow until a great road stretches here. There
will be lakes and underground hostels along the way, and our children
will travel in vurth-insulated wagons without maars, wagons faster than
the wind.

"It was so on Aarth, their legends declare, and so it will be with us."

Ylda pouted. "What do we care about Aarth and treks?" she demanded. She
nestled closer and her eyes closed contentedly.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK VALKYRIE FROM THE VOID ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
