ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Flame-Jewel of the Ancients, by Edwin L.
Graber

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Flame-Jewel of the Ancients

Author: Edwin L. Graber

Release Date: March 09, 2021 [eBook #64764]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FLAME-JEWEL OF THE ANCIENTS ***




                      Flame-Jewel of the Ancients

                          By EDWIN L. GRABER

             The tiny golden sphere, blazing with terrible
              energy, spelled Galactic Empire at last to
             the out-space horde, once they had tapped its
               limitless power. They were grimly amused
             therefore when Captain Glayne of the Stellar
             Guardians dropped innocently out of sub-space
                      to view their mighty prize.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The two Terran super Galactics glided side-by-side in the immensity
of the interstellar void. Secure in the knowledge that they were the
mightiest battleships ever built in the known galaxy, they didn't
bother to raise their anti-energy shields. They knew, absolutely, that
no other warcraft in the universe could equal their strength....

Jukes, the third pilot, lounged carelessly in his gimbal-slung shock
seat, idly watching the screen before him. Aside from his sister
ship, there was nothing to be seen but the harsh points of starlight.
Cautiously he looked over his shoulder to see if the executive officer
were nearby, then, apparently satisfied, lit a cigarette and blew an
expansive plume of smoke at the serried banks of instruments that
were terraced about him.

Suddenly the intermittent glowing of a red blinker aroused him.
Throwing the butt to the deck, he bent forward, squinting into the
screen. Far down in one corner he detected an irregularly sparkling
mote moving slowly across the blazing points of the distant stars. With
a single motion of his arm he swept the Call to Quarters alarm studs
and began to speak rapidly into his throat transmitter. As the muffled
vibrating thunder of his ship's drivers rose, he could make out his
sister ship gradually swinging into an approach orbit.

A double tap on his shoulder informed him that the first pilot was
there to take over. Smoothly he slipped from the shock seat and took
up his station with the other two pilots near the auxiliary control
boards. Everywhere about him was excited, orderly confusion as the huge
warship stripped for possible action. The orbit calculators at his left
took up the excited jabbering chorus and somewhere above the third
pilot was aware of the massive charge accumulators for the Kellander
miatron blasters whining up the scale.

"It's a Delban," he muttered to his fellow pilots. "Just a pipsqueak,
too, blast his miserable, trespassing soul. A light cruiser, from what
I saw of him."

The younger one looked at him eagerly. "Do you think he'll fight?"

The third pilot snorted. "One Stellar class cruiser against two Terran
Galactics? He'd be out of his mind."

Just then the battle screen lit up and a babbling group of gunnery
officers crowded about, feeding firing data to waiting miatron crews.
Over their shoulders the third pilot could make out the Delban cruiser
as it lay there, slim and deadly against the vast, star-studded vault
of space.

"What I'd like to know is why the devil he doesn't run for it," the
older pilot said to no one in particular. "Something's up, I'm sure.
Delbans just don't act like this."

The third pilot grunted absently, his eyes fixed on the battle screen.
The two Galactics now lay on either side of the Delban. His sister ship
began to communicate with the new arrival, her yellow beam glowing
with baleful intensity. But the pilot wasn't watching. He had noticed
something odd about that cruiser. It seemed to bulge in the wrong
places. It was completely enclosed by a peculiar mesh antenna which
glinted ominously in the faint light.

Then the Delban fired.

For a moment there was stunned amazement in the huge plotting room.
It was the very absurdity of the situation rather than mere surprise.
To make the blasphemy worse, the Delban had licked out with the beam
of a secondary Kellander projector rather than with her main miatron
batteries. The damage was slight, the communicator bulb of the other
Galactic having been reduced to twisted slag. But this was the grossest
of all insults in space warfare and demanded immediate retaliation. The
third pilot held his breath in anticipation.

Then it came. The plotting room exploded into frantic activity.
Generators screamed into ear-splitting crescendoes as the main driver
engines were coupled into them to raise the anti-energy shield. The
Kellander miatron blasters hurled ravening bolts of energy at the
audacious Delban, reducing accumulator loads to zero in instants.
The remainder of the driver atomics were coupled into the Kellander
accumulators sending up loads that were fed through the continuously
thundering miatrons at the Delban cruiser. Literally _trillions_ of
megawatts lapped at the Delban shield, making it glow up the spectral
scale in a brilliant spider web of absorbing power foci. But it held.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Delban shield held! The third pilot was unbelievably shocked as he
stared at the battle screen. It was simply not conceivable that the
two mightiest warships in space could not penetrate the shield of a
pipsqueak Stellar cruiser.

Where were they getting the power? The question blazed up in the third
pilot's consciousness as he stared at the slim, deadly Delban. Abruptly
he recalled where he had seen the Delban's peculiar external mesh
antenna.

"Broadcast power!" he blurted to his comrades. "Those devils are
receiving broadcast power!"

The other two pilots looked at him incredulously. "Hell!" snorted the
older one. "You can't transmit the stuff across interstellar distances."

The third pilot didn't reply. As he watched the screen he suddenly knew
they were in trouble. By rights this should have been the greatest
shock of all but his mind was so dulled with amazement that he could
only shake his head.

The Delban's firing had gradually increased in strength until now both
the Terran battleship's mighty shields were themselves glowing up the
spectral scale in its spidery force web. Despite the older pilot's
doubts, he realized that only broadcast power in unlimited quantities
could account for those overloaded shields. But where were they getting
it to broadcast? Only an infinite source of supply could do the job.

Paralyzed, he watched the battle screen. He was aware of the miatron
blasters falling silent, one after another, as the straining driver
atomics were diverted to hold the shield. Their sister Galactic's
blasters had all fallen silent as all the power of her own huge drivers
was shunted into the shield generators. Their own shield was trembling
and shuddering under the inconceivable impact of the energies that
surged at it from the Delban.

Suddenly the pilot saw their sister ship's shield coruscate in a
multi-hued spider web of shorting power foci. Then it buckled. The
third pilot instinctively averted his face from the indescribably
brilliant, eye-searing nova that followed.

His own ship screamed. The drivers, the generators, the converters and
accumulators--all of them screamed in ultra-sonic crescendoes in an
effort to maintain the crumbling shield. The force webs shorted one
after another in brilliant red fire. The third pilot saw it rupture but
he never felt it....

For days the twin novae burned in the endless night, then slowly faded
to blackened cinders.


                                  II

The Tri-di film came to an end and the Council Chamber's soft
fluorescents picked up in strength. For a moment the members of Lorle
Sector's High Council were stunned and bewildered at what they had seen.

Captain Glayne waited patiently for the explosion which he knew would
come. For about the tenth time that morning he fervently cursed all
civilians. Not even the valiant efforts of Chairman Dell Thorder could
keep them in check. A vast wave of irritation filled him as he listened
to the piercing squeak of a fat Councilor named Trask.

"It will mean war, I say--and we haven't had a war involving Terra for
seventy years. Lorle Sector must remain neutral--especially if Delb
Sector has weapons which can crush super Galactic battleships. Now I
say," he squeaked, oblivious of the fact that no one was paying any
attention, "that we must request Captain Glayne to leave immediately
because his presence might be deemed an overt act by our friends, the
Delbans. True, the Stellar Guardians--"

He was suddenly cut off by the staccato thunder of Dell Thorder's
gavel. The chairman's thin, ascetic face wore a worried expression as
his eyes swept the now silent Council. Of them all, he was the only
man Glayne admired. For thirty years he had maneuvered the nine-planet
Lorle Sector through the treacherous shoals of Combine politics and
never once had the cry of "boss" or "dictator" seriously been raised
against him.

"I must confess," he began quietly, "that I do not myself understand
fully the implications of this situation. I do know that the fact that
Imperial Terra has lost two large battleships is inconsequential. The
real point is that the Terran Combine is facing imminent destruction at
the hands of Gort Bro-Doral and his Delban Empire. Because we are Delb
Sector's nearest neighbor, we may expect the first blow to fall on us.
Since it is a known fact that the Intelligence Service of the Stellar
Guardians is the finest in the galaxy, I have sent for Captain Glayne
to explain certain of the technical aspects of the new Delban weapon in
order that we may determine what action to take."

Thorder silently gestured to Glayne who arose and faced the hostile
stares of the councilors. Their unexpressed antipathy was amusing
rather than irritating. The meager little navy that Lorle Sector did
possess drained away funds that could otherwise be used in their pork
barrel. However, they all had something to worry about which Thorder
hadn't mentioned. The Revolution which had smashed the Delb-Lorle Axis
thirty years before had made Gort Bro-Doral a ruthless enemy who would
not rest until his ships had utterly destroyed the Lorle cities in
retaliation. So far they had depended upon Imperial Terra to support
them against the Bro's passionate desire for power. But now the Terran
navy was helpless and Lorle was in a desperate plight.

"What Dell Thorder told you is true," he began in a firm, clear voice.
"Unfortunately it is an understatement because it implies that there
is a possibility of discovering a counter-weapon to offset that of the
Delbans. Such is not the case.

"For a long time we have been prone to think in terms of optimum sizes
for warships. We were accustomed to believe that we had reached the
pinnacle of development in destructive weapons. The fatal radiations of
atomic generators and converters make it necessary to divert a part of
the power into shields. These shields are limited in size by the ship
size, and the ship size in turn is limited by the size of its power
plant. But there is a point of diminishing returns--that is, we cannot
build ships larger than the Galactic class battleships without losing
efficiency. So for a long time we have believed that there was a limit
to the amount of power available in any given class of warship.

"Unfortunately this no longer applies for the Delbans. As you have just
seen on the tri-di film obtained by Stellar Guardian Intelligence, a
single Stellar cruiser engaged and destroyed two Terran Galactics.
This means, as Chairman Thorder has suggested, that the entire fleet
strength of the nine hundred Sectors of the Terran Combine is now quite
helpless against the Delban Grand Fleet."

Glayne paused for a moment. In spite of the room's air conditioning,
many of the Councilors were mopping their faces anxiously. The one
called Trask was chewing his lower lip nervously, not liking a bit what
the tall Guardian officer had to say. Glayne felt a twinge of sympathy
for his three hundred and fifty million constituents.

"The crux of the whole problem is the source of this new Delban power.
Experts in our organization are absolutely certain that they are
using broadcast power, but this information is based on the tri-di
film you have seen which our agents have stolen from the Terran
Admiralty Office at Lunaport. It may be a fake, but that is hardly
likely. The implications of broadcast power are so tremendous as to
defy reason. Even under the best laboratory conditions the power lost
in transmission makes it impractical. Consequently any source which
produces energies capable of smashing two Terran Galactic battleships
at perhaps stellar distances is vast beyond conjecture. As incredible
as this sounds, we believe that the Delbans have it. As to its precise
nature, we are still in the dark. However, the Stellar Guardians, at
least, are in a position to investigate."

Dell Thorder cleared his throat at this point and Glayne stopped.

"You see our position," said the weary Chairman. "Almost any
countermeasure we attempt can be interpreted as an overt act by
Bro-Doral. Hence any action on our part will make our ruin sooner
instead of later. However, there is one thin possibility and that is
Captain Glayne. It is true that he is a mercenary belonging to the
Stellar Guardians. But Kairn's Intelligence vouches for him absolutely
and I am informed that he is as competent as any man in the Lorle Fleet.

"Because of the peculiar nature of the Stellar Guardian organization,
he can carry out investigations where any such move on our part would
be suicidal. In my opinion, our only possible chance is to employ him
in this capacity to locate the Delban power transmitter--if one exists.
It is possible that an all-out attack with all the units we can muster
will succeed in destroying it."

As Thorder finished, Glayne took a deep breath. He stood motionless
by the immense circular table. He knew that the Councilors, like all
small planet men, were impressed with his great shoulders and their
suggestion of tremendous physical strength. But if they knew what
torment he had to endure under high driver thrust as a result of his
great size, they wouldn't be so impressed.

Dell Thorder coughed. "Captain Glayne, would you mind stepping into the
outer room while we take a vote? We will inform you directly."

       *       *       *       *       *

Glayne nodded silently and left the Chamber. Disregarding the
anteroom's soft chairs, he stood against the wall, waiting. His
space-tanned face hardened as he looked thoughtfully from the glassene
window at the jewel-like city of Lorle Capital, a dazzling white under
the noon sun. Mentally he pictured the sleek Delban cruisers flashing
overhead in fast orbits, pouring phenomenal torrents of energy into
the pathetic shield the city would attempt to set up. The Lorle High
Council would trust him. In the end, even Trask would. They were all
rabbits looking around desperately for someone to defend them. They
would hire him; they would pat him on the back and shake his hand; they
would make him solemnly swear the Guardian Oath to struggle against all
their enemies. And Glayne would promise to do all of these things.

But he would lie.

He would do none of these things. Instead he would do all in his power
to bring war to Lorle. He would commit an overt act against the Delbans
and they would cry for Lorle blood. Their fast, sleek ships would deal
out death and destruction to the very cities which he would swear ever
so solemnly to defend to his last breath. With a coldly objective part
of his mind he marveled at the consummate treachery he would perform.

But another part of his mind was aghast. He was unable to suppress
the bitter waves of remorse that filled him. Again he remembered the
serious, heavy-jowled face of Garstow, Grand Admiral of the Stellar
Guardians. In the Dorleb Headquarters, only forty hours before, Garstow
had said: "Glayne, we need time. Some Sector must be thrown to the
wolves. While the Delbans are occupied with that unfortunate Sector, we
will have time to unravel their broadcast scramblers, build antennae of
our own, and perhaps even locate their power transmitter. The Policy
Organ has decided upon Lorle Sector. And it has decided that you,
Glayne, are the man for the job."

Glayne had listened in stunned silence to Garstow. A protest rose
automatically to his lips but he had crushed it back with a click
of his booted heels. And now here he was in Lorle Capital with his
Stellar class cruiser _Algol_ ready for action. When the fat men with
rabbit eyes emerged from the Council Chamber and empowered him to work
for them, he would be ready to move. A sudden raid on Delban space
commerce, an energy bomb hurtling into a Delban city from a stolen
Lorle warship--any one of a dozen expedients would have the ruthless
Gort Bro-Doral screaming down on the helpless cities of Lorle.

As he stared at the afternoon brilliance of Lorle Capital he realized
that his treachery was an ironic manifestation of a greater loyalty.
People forgot that the Stellar Guardians were dedicated to the ideal
of human progress. The great mercenary organization recognized the
inevitability of war and determined that wars should be fought
according to rules. But the Delbans were now in a position to flout all
rules and destroy all human progress. Hence all rules were forgotten
and ruthless treachery was the order of the day as every resource was
exploited to crush Gort Bro-Doral and his Delban Empire.

Then the door of the Council Chamber opened and Dell Thorder stepped
into the anteroom. He faced Glayne silently for a moment, lines of
weariness etched in his tired, old face.

Then he thrust out his hand and said simply: "We wish you the best of
luck, Glayne."

The Guardian Captain took the outstretched hand and almost winced
at the trust he saw in Thorder's eyes. The weight of the crushing
responsibility bowed down the Chairman's frail shoulders, but he seemed
to burn with an indomitable determination to defend his people. He was
not a rabbit but a warrior. And Glayne was going to betray him.

"I'll do my best," he said in quick, husky tones.

He felt like a swine as he closed the door behind him.


                                  III

It was a second-class night spot called The Yarga. Glayne would meet
the Stellar Guardian espionage chief for the Lorle Sector here. As
he stood at the entrance bar absorbing the customary drink prior to
entering the first stage, he swept the place with cold grey eyes.
Evidently the city commission of Lorle Capital was going through a
phase of puritanism because the deadly Kesla lights were absent and
the swirling strains of the reportedly _jawth_-fed orchestra were
considerably toned down. Nevertheless, the general impression was quite
sufficiently exotic to suit Glayne as he entered the dimly-lit first
stage.

Vaguely he was aware of the less restrained laughter of patrons who had
already reached the second stage, having passed through the vibrator
screen that simulated a soothing color movement. The function of the
vibrator was to give jaded sensibilities the physical fillip necessary
to convince reluctant laggards that they really were ready for the
second stage. Glayne was also aware of his table's slight movement
toward the vibrator screen and he felt a wave of irritation at the
prospect of chasing through nine stages in this outlandish place
looking for his contact.

Suddenly the annunciator light in the center of his table began to
glow an intermittent red-orange. Glayne looked at it, eyes narrowed.
Experimentally he stabbed its speaker stud and a voice seemed to emerge
from the empty air before his face.

"Captain, you look _so_ lonely and disconsolate sitting by yourself.
Won't you join me?" It was a woman's voice, low and casual. Glayne was
briefly startled--he had expected that his contact would be a man.
Then it occurred to him that she was not his contact, but that doubt
vanished when he remembered that he had discarded his uniform for the
light grey business jumper of a young business executive. How could
she know him for a Captain in the Stellar Guardians unless she was his
contact?

On the other hand, she had not made herself known with the code which
had been selected beforehand. Puzzled and suspicious, he flicked the
transmitter stud and said cautiously: "Where are you?"

"You can't miss me, darling," she replied. "Just stand up."

Glayne hesitated, hefting the heavy, comforting weight of the Cardy
blaster under his arm-pit. With a shrug he tossed off the remnants of
the blue-green _borse_ which stirred lambently in the exquisite goblet.
Then he stood up.

She was perfectly correct. He couldn't miss her from ten light years,
much less thirty feet. She was tall and graceful in a tailored green
jumper which half suggested, half concealed the long, smooth curves of
her young body. She had coppery red hair and wide-set green eyes that
smiled boldly at him. She rested a hand on her hip in mock impatience.

"Well, don't just stand there, fat-head!" she cried across the tables.
"What do you usually do when you haven't seen someone for years and
years?"

With an effort Glayne collected himself, assayed a weak smile, and
maneuvered around the tables to her side.

"Oh, you look perfectly gorgeous," she said, oblivious to the amused
people around her. "Dance with me--you always were a divine dancer.
You know, I was telling Jani just today how I wished you'd come for a
visit--we haven't seen you for such a long time...."

She prattled gaily on. Somewhat dazed, Glayne led her to the resilient
dance floor, an absurdity which had suddenly become the very latest
rage overnight. The girl slipped smoothly into his arms, her fragrant,
perfumed hair under his chin.

He wasn't at all prepared for the hard tones of her voice when she
said: "I regret to inform you, Captain Glayne, that the agent you were
supposed to meet here is dead. He had an unfortunate accident with a
Cardy gun."

Glayne stiffened perceptibly. "Who did it?"

"Probably Delban espionage. They know that something is in the fire and
they're not wearing kid gloves to find out what it is."

"Did they discover the identity of the person he was supposed to meet?"

"No," she replied. "But they're looking. Fortunately the organization
was not in the dark as to whom he would meet. Otherwise I could never
have found you."

Glayne's eyes narrowed. Too many people knew what was going on. That
made it very dangerous. But what made it even more dangerous was the
fact that he himself did _not_ know what was going on. Agents of
three organizations were involved in the search for information and
the tangled maze of plots would be deadly for anyone caught in the
middle. He was silent for a moment, battle-trained senses sifting his
surroundings instinctively. Something ... somewhere ... was odd.

"If you will notice their eyes," the girl remarked dryly, "you will
find that a good proportion of the Yarga's clientele are high on Soames
drug."

       *       *       *       *       *

Glayne started and looked more closely at the couples entering the
stage. Then he saw what she meant. Here and there he saw eyes--burning
eyes--eyes that glittered with a brilliant fire that emanated from
huge, dilated pupils. They were using the marvelous Soames energizing
drug; it fairly blazed from their slitted lids. Its purpose was to
accelerate physical reaction speeds--but why use it on a small planet
like Lorle IV? With the question came the answer. Their quarry had
the .95 reaction index of a big-planet man. That was Glayne's index.
And that meant that they were right on top of him.

"I think," he intoned softly to the girl, "it would be wise for us to
move on to the next stage."

In reply she slipped smoothly from his arms, seized him by the sleeve
of his loose-fitting jumper, and propelled him to the tingle screen.
When he balked she grinned at him and stood in the field of the screen
herself and laughed at him. It was a bubbly, elated laugh. Glayne liked
it. And he liked the way the soothing color movements of the tingle
screen caressed the long curves of her figure. But he didn't like the
nervous manner in which the glittering, dilated pupils flickered at
them and held them curiously, then flickered casually away.

The girl was clever, he realized. The keyed-up Delban agents would
be far less likely to suspect an intoxicated couple of dark designs.
Suddenly the red-headed girl stumbled, accidentally pushed from the
other side of the screen. Instinctively Glayne reached out to steady
her--reached out with a long, liquid motion of his powerful arm. In one
instant every Soames-dilated eye in the room was upon him. In another,
Cardy guns were magically appearing in a dozen hands.

But, fast as they were, Glayne was faster. He drew his own weapon with
blurred speed, fired, and flung himself and the girl through the screen
into the second stage. The Delban agents hesitated to fire blindly
through the screen and rushed after them. The big Guardian hurtled
through the exotic darkness of the second stage with the girl in his
left arm. He scattered and smashed tables right and left, littering the
floor with bewildered and drunken patrons.

The exit toward which he was heading was suddenly no longer an exit.
It was filled with a crowd of huge, glittering eyes and wicked looking
Cardy guns. In a single movement, Glayne dropped to the floor and fired.

The second stage was in an uproar. Now agents were pouring through the
tingle screen in pursuit. Desperately Glayne sought for a means of
escape. Then he saw the portal that evidently led to the kitchen or the
bar. He grabbed the dazed red-head and rushed through the portal, swept
down a short corridor, turned, and straight-armed two tray-bearing
waiters as he dashed through a second portal. And suddenly he was
behind the entrance bar where he had taken his first drink. He tensed
for a fraction of a second, then vaulted the low bar.

A bartender and two customers stared at them with blank amazement but
there was not a Delban agent in sight. Swiftly Glayne set the girl upon
her feet and together they fled from the building. He noted approvingly
the capable-looking Cardy she held in her small fist.

"My flier is outside," he said. "They've probably surrounded the place,
but in the confusion the ones outside won't know us. We'll try to bluff
through."

She nodded and put her gun away. As they approached the flier parking
area she clutched his arm with intoxicated possessiveness. Glayne was
right; here and there a Delban agent glanced at them suspiciously--then
looked contemptuously away. The object of their search was alone.
Controlling his heavy breathing with difficulty, Glayne approached an
attendant, digging out his micro-wave key jewel.

"Here! Get my air-jet," he panted.

But instead of the expected response, the man stiffened for a
measureless instant, then whirled with blurred speed. A Cardy
blaster magically materialized in his hand and his eyes burned with
Soames-induced ferocity. But Glayne was a shade faster. His left
streaked with dazzling speed into the agent's stomach and the Delban
folded up, his motor nerves paralyzed from the blow in the solar plexus.

Crouching, they ran toward Glayne's air-jet. A Cardy bolt splashed into
the side of a flier just above Glayne's head, battering the tough
beralloy and sending a shower of white hot droplets in all directions.
As they reached his air-jet, Glayne whirled and fired rapidly and with
murderous accuracy at the pursuing Delban agents. As they scuttled for
cover, Glayne turned and waved the talisman through the micro-wave
field and the door swung open.

Instantly he shoved the girl into the cabin, then climbed in behind
her. He let the tiny atomic engine thunder beyond audibility, then fed
power to the jets in huge gulps. With a tremendous surge the little
craft leaped into the air and roared over the roof of the Yarga. A
couple of Delban energy bolts slapped viciously into the air-jet, but
soon Glayne out-distanced them, flying low over the dark countryside.

The girl sighed beside him. "This has been a very warm evening. Do you
think they'll catch us?"

"I don't think they're organized that well," Glayne grunted, busy with
the course-computer. "Their whole assault was hasty and ill-timed. I
doubt if they even had time to set up an air net."

"But, now that they are out in the open, they will move quickly. Do you
have a specific plan in mind, Captain Glayne?"

The Guardian frowned and cast a quick glance at her. He was puzzled by
her insistence. "My Flagship, the _Algol_, is maneuvered into a fast
orbit behind inert detector screens. About ninety miles out. I've just
set course to intercept her before we hit dayside."

In reply the girl bent past his shoulder toward the luminous figures
which floated in the dial of the computer, announcing the course. The
delicate lines of her face were hard in the faint light. Again Glayne
felt a twinge of uneasiness and it was not dispelled by the soft touch
of her body against his.

"What is your name?" he asked belatedly, trying to make out the
features of her face in the dim light from the instrument panel.

She chuckled in the darkness and he fancied he heard a note of triumph.
"Lieutenant Niala Chodred," she said. "Espionage Bureau of Imperial
Terra. At your service, Captain."

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Imperial Terra! The words fairly blazed in Glayne's consciousness.
His hand shot like lightning for the Cardy in his arm-pit holster, then
stopped in mid-motion as he became aware of a hard, cylindrical object
thrust into his ribs. It was her tiny Cardy blaster.

Through the waves of chagrin and impotent fury that surged up within
him, Glayne heard her say mockingly: "Guardian warriors are supposed to
function like machines when on missions, aren't they, Captain? Since
when are machines rattled by pretty girls?"

The lines on Glayne's face deepened but he said nothing. Her taunting
rebuke was well-deserved. He had certainly lacked the emotionless
precision which was the Guardian ideal. But the mere fact that he had
been caught napping was inconsequential beside the implications of
her presence as a Terran agent. How much did Terra know? The question
hammered urgently in Glayne's mind.

Even as it flashed through his head, he heard her amused voice say:
"In time of crisis, Captain Glayne, the Stellar Guardians invariably
throw allies and friends to the dogs in order to gain time. This is
common knowledge. So all we had to do was determine the direction of
the Guardian move. We immediately thought of Lorle. And we even thought
that you might be the man the Guardians would send, Glayne, because
we have a complete file on your activities for the past ten years. We
know that you have been on good terms with Delban brass since that
successful exploring job you performed at Jorger Sun, five years ago."

With growing horror, Glayne listened to her unfold the deepest Guardian
secrets--derived by Terran Espionage through simple induction. What a
fool he had been for trusting her even for a minute! Unless he could
stop her, she could utterly destroy all Guardian hopes to overcome the
Delbans. His great body tensed as he stared at her from the corner of
his eye, watching for the slightest sign of inattention.

"Glayne," she continued, in a hard, objective voice with no trace
of amusement, "Imperial Terra is not itself adverse to a policy of
throwing someone to the dogs in order to gain time. But we want to give
the dogs someone who can put up a fight. Poor Lorle would not be much
of a match for Gort Bro-Doral and she wouldn't gain us much time. But
the Stellar Guardians would. In fact, the Stellar Guardians themselves
will commit the overt act--with a little help."

The Guardian Captain was stunned at the very audacity of her plan. He
had to admit that its logic was undeniable. But how could she possibly
seek to accomplish such an incredible feat as forcing the Guardians
into a suicidal attack upon the Delbans? Unless....

Then his worst suspicions were realized as she said: "The Ganser
mind-conditioning treatments will not harm your essential-ego, Captain
Glayne. But, if you struggle against them, your mind will be shattered
and you will be left an idiot when the effects wear off."

A cold thrill of fear caressed Glayne's spine as he heard her words.
The brutal, tearing fingers of the horrible mind-conditioner devised
by the Delban Espionage Chief, Hoteh Ganser, would change his goals
and values in the space of only a few hours. What seemed to him
irrational now would be the height of reason after his conditioning. As
the ramifications of Imperial Terra's plot came clear to him, Glayne
realized with increasing urgency that he simply had to overcome the
girl.

"You may be sure that your attack on Sterle II will not be in vain,"
came the girl's brittle tones. "Admiral Bardled will station units of
the Imperial Terran Fleet in hyper-space with the purpose of cracking
the wave length of the broadcast power and locating its source.

"Our plan is much cleaner and nobler than yours, is it not, Captain
Glayne? You Stellar Guardians are all hard, ruthless fighters. You
can take care of yourselves. But poor little Lorle wouldn't have a
chance. Don't you agree, Captain? Don't you find it heroic to sacrifice
yourself to the Delban dog pack to gain time for the rest of the
galaxy?"

Glayne ignored the mockery in her voice. A sudden wave of bitter anger
swept over him at the presumptuous manner in which they were all
bent upon throwing one another to the dogs. Surely they were not so
tactically poverty-stricken that they could not conceive of a better
plot which would not demand such a tremendous sacrifice of human life.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly, almost without warning, the tiny spark of rebellion within
him blazed up in hot determination. To hell with Garstow and the
Stellar Guardian Policy Organ. To hell with Admiral Bardled and the
Terran fleet. To hell with everyone. The vague suggestion of a plan was
forming in the recesses of his mind, breath-taking in its audacity and
possibly, just possibly workable.

But what of the girl? To think about overpowering her was one thing;
actually doing it was another. She had already killed one Guardian
earlier this evening, he presumed. She would not hesitate to kill
another. That meant that he would have to meet cunning with cunning.

"You don't mind if I smoke one last cigar while I am still in control
of my essential-ego, do you?" he asked, trying to match her mocking,
satirical mood. "I don't believe the Ganser-personality enjoys tobacco
as much as the average Guardian Captain."

She alerted instantly, but the Cardy didn't waver the least fraction
of an inch. "You are not the average Guardian Captain," she said in a
strange, low voice. "But go ahead and smoke."

Fleetingly Glayne wondered what she had meant, then he let the thought
flicker away as he concentrated on his cigar. He reached for the
radio-active on the instrument panel, flicking it so that its coal
gleamed into gradual dull red life. She was watching him like a hawk,
he knew, and smiled inwardly. The closer the better. Idly he began to
hum a snatch of melody, a curious thing arranged in minors. It was
peculiarly suited to his unsteady bass. He waved the radio-active in
his hand in slow, sweeping circles in time to his humming.

Smoothly he ignited his cigar, puffing the semi-narcotic smoke in thick
clouds. He hummed louder, his voice pushing the deep, wailing dirge
into the cabin. It acted like a drug, throwing everything into slow
time. It numbed the sensibilities and dulled acute perceptions.

Ever so gently and smoothly Glayne turned his head and glanced at
the girl. His scheme had worked. Her eyes automatically followed the
circles he described with the radio-active in his hand. She was lulled
into a near-hypnotic condition.

In a single jump, Glayne seized the hand in which she held the Cardy
gun. She reacted instantly, but not quite fast enough to wrest the
weapon from his hand. Like a spring under great pressure she exploded
into writhing, clawing, kicking, biting action. Her savage ferocity so
startled Glayne that he nearly lost the weapon to her. As he sought to
fend her off with one hand and throw the weapon away with the other, he
felt her nails sink agonizingly into the side of his face. Gasping, he
finally got rid of the weapon, then drew back his fist and slugged her
with a short, jabbing punch.

Panting, he recovered from the struggle. Suddenly he became aware of
the peculiar angle of flight of the air-jet. It was shrieking down
on its stubby fins toward the planet's surface. Somehow the Terran
girl had kicked off the robot control. As he righted the craft and
reoriented the course, he became aware of the girl's brooding eyes on
him.

"You are very clever, Captain Glayne," she said. "Perhaps one might
even say courageous. A heavy planet man like yourself should not risk
himself with such reckless bravery in a physical struggle with a small
planet individual."

Glayne was stung by her rebuke, but he was even more startled at her
bitterness. She was an espionage agent and she knew the risks and
hazards involved. Certainly she was not whining at her defeat.

"How do you propose to fake the overt act, Captain?" she continued in a
light, conversational tone.

Glayne was grimly aware of the accusation in her words but he said
nothing. She had a right to be bitter, he realized. Ironically, she
was going to get her way after all, though she didn't know it yet. He
grinned mirthlessly at her, the cigar clenched between his teeth.

She was beautiful, but especially so in the resentment that was
mirrored in her features. Glayne was suddenly very sorry that she had
killed the Guardian agent he was supposed to meet. Otherwise he would
have liked very much to have known her.


                                  IV

The nine-hundred-foot bulk of the Stellar class cruiser _Algol_ loomed
hugely over the little air-jet as Glayne maneuvered it into the gaping
reception maw in the cruiser's belly. The craft's slight lurch as it
came to rest just inside the lock awoke the Terran girl who had fallen
asleep.

Glayne sighed, glancing at her. She stared back at him coolly. He shook
his head and said, "That green outfit of yours will just have to go,
Lieutenant Chodred. Crew's morale, you know."

Her eyes widened in sudden dismay. "But ... but surely you don't want
me to--"

He grinned. "You will have to wear a crew jumper." Glancing again at
her graceful figure, he made a mental note: it would have to be an
over-size jumper--several sizes over.

Stiffly they climbed from the little air-jet and propelled themselves
weightlessly to the elevator. Seconds later its door slid open and they
were on the navigation bridge. Glayne took the girl's arm and escorted
her around the bulking computers and auxiliary boards to the Captain's
Station.

Graysen, the grizzled old Executive Officer, snapped to attention
and delivered a brisk salute. Glayne acknowledged it absently, his
attention absorbed primarily in a hasty inspection of the bridge. Then
he became aware of the intent stares of Graysen and the other officers.
Those who were not gawking at Niala Chodred were staring hard at his
cheek, obviously striving not to laugh.

Puzzled, Glayne felt his cheek, then glanced at his hand. There was
blood on it. He suddenly recalled the two long red welts inflicted by
the Terran agent's fingernails and realized that his officers were
drawing the obvious inferences. Abruptly he was stung with chagrin and
pictured the juicy tidbit of gossip which he had just supplied gunroom
scuttlebutt throughout the Guardian Fleet. Exasperated at his own lack
of foresight, he stared back at his officers, browbeating them into
submission with his stony gaze.

"Morning, Captain," drawled Graysen, breaking the embarrassed silence.

"Good morning, Commander," returned Glayne. "Stoke her up. Set an
orbit for Sterle II. Incidentally, this is Lieutenant Niala Chodred of
Imperial Terran Espionage. I met her instead of our own agent. He had
an unfortunate accident with a Cardy gun--I'm told."

Glayne glanced significantly at the girl. Graysen nodded
understandingly and raised a quizzical eyebrow in Niala's direction.
She looked from one to the other, mystified.

Then sudden understanding registered on her features. "Glayne!" she
cried in a horrified tone, "I didn't kill him! Terran Espionage had
nothing to do with his death. He was murdered by the Delbans and we
found out by bribing one of Kairn's men that he was supposed to make
contact with an unknown Guardian big gun at the Yarga. We knew he was
to meet you but the Delbans didn't. That's the only reason you escaped
them, Captain Glayne. The Delbans murdered your contact agent but I had
nothing to do with it. You must believe me!"

Glayne smiled cynically at her and said, "Of course, Lieutenant
Chodred, we believe you." He brusquely turned his back on her and said
to Graysen, "You will have to move in with one of the other officers,
Commander. Just temporarily, of course."

"Aye, sir," replied Graysen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Presently the navigation bridge was filled with hurrying men. The orbit
computers began to clatter noisily and somewhere within the depths of
the ship a keening whine indicated that the huge driver atomics were
being warmed.

"What acceleration, Captain?" Graysen asked, appearing with a sheaf of
orbit calculations.

Glayne was on the point of saying three G's out of deference to Niala
Chodred and her light planet birth. But he thrust her from his mind as
he realized that speed was of the utmost importance. High acceleration
meant speed and speed meant time saved. Time to carry out his bold
scheme, time to locate and sabotage the mysterious Delban power
broadcast, time to build the mesh antennae and energize the Stellar
Guardian fleet....

His face hardened grimly. "Five G's," he said shortly.

Doubt flickered for an instant across Graysen's face as he glanced at
the girl. Then he shrugged and turned away to comply with the order.

Silently Glayne took Niala Chodred's arm and descended to the next
deck. As the first traces of a floor appeared under their feet, he
opened the door to Graysen's quarters. It was furnished with the
Spartan simplicity of a typical warrior. Trophies and a few rather
gruesome battle prints decorated the bulkheads. Niala examined the room
curiously but preserved a hurt silence.

He showed her the acceleration hammocks and how to use the anti-thrust
drugs in their small surettes.

"If you need me," he said, "I will be in the cabin at the end of the
corridor."

She looked at him with mock surprise. "What? No connecting door?
Really, Captain, you've shattered all my girlish illusions about the
Stellar Guardians."

Glayne paused, his hand on the door stud. He turned around and said,
"I want to wake up tomorrow without suffering an accident with a Cardy
gun." He closed the door behind him.

By the time he reached the navigation bridge again, the _Algol_ had
built up to five G's. To Glayne, accustomed to the heavy Dorleb
planets, this was a little more than twice normal.

Young Brodis, the ship's Intelligence Officer, approached him and
saluted. "I beg your pardon, sir. Communications just handed these
over to me--I thought you might be interested." He extended a sheaf of
flimsies to Glayne.

The big Guardian examined them, eyes narrowed. They were transcripts of
an official Lorle news bulletin. Rapidly he read:

_Intelligence Chief Kairn announced tonight the death of Carling
Clawdor, allegedly an espionage agent of the Stellar Guardians. It is
believed that he was to contact another agent or agents at the Yarga
night club this evening. Prior to his death by Cardy burns, Clawdor
accused Delban agents._

_Intelligence Chief Kairn also revealed that a raid carried out on the
Yarga night club failed to apprehend the Guardian agents. Just before
their arrival a spectacular gun battle took place. Investigation is
still proceeding, Kairn announced, indicating that ..._

Silently Glayne handed the flimsies back to Brodis, chewing his lower
lip. It was incredible that Kairn should reveal such confidential
information. Obviously the Lorle Intelligence Chief was taking no
chances on provoking an incident which the Delbans could twist into a
pretext for war. But an even more important fact came clear to Glayne:
Niala Chodred had not murdered Clawdor. He was very glad that she was
innocent of the Guardian agent's death. Unconsciously he framed the
apology he would make to her as he climbed with an effort into the
Captain's Dome and lowered himself into its gimbal-slung shock seat.

Far off to his left the globe of Lorle IV shrunk visibly. Again the
mental picture of the Delban warships streaking over those short
horizons in fast orbits flashed across his mind and he imagined them
pouring their inconceivable torrents of energy into the unprotected
cities. At least, he thought, he wouldn't be guilty of that crime.
But what was the real chance of the wild scheme and its attendant
insubordination which he had conceived in the air-jet?

For a long time he pondered it. No matter how much he rationalized, it
was still insubordination and it lay heavily on his mind. Suddenly he
was shaky and he realized that he held the fate of the civilized galaxy
in his hands. If he blundered, would that not be a greater crime than
the mere sacrifice of Lorle? Glayne could not resolve the question and
he was vaguely glad that decision was no longer in his hands and he
could not turn back if he wanted to.

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Algol_ emerged from sub-space four hundred million kilometers
below the plane of the ecliptic in the Sterle System. With her identity
signals broadcasting at full power, she changed course, veering
"upward" toward the second planet of Sterle's small brood of five.

The faint beams of the distant red dwarf sun shed a sickly glow
on the navigation bridge through the huge glassene ports. Shortly
after her arrival the _Algol_ was picked up by two fast and deadly
Delban destroyers of the Planet class. Almost delicate in their
unobtrusiveness, they slipped in on either side of the _Algol_ and
escorted her swiftly to the capital planet of the Delban Empire, Sterle
II.

"There's one consolation, anyway," Graysen remarked to his chief as
they stood before the glassene ports. "They don't seem to have fitted
out their whole fleet with receiving antennae yet."

Glayne nodded, flipping on the small auxiliary battle screen at his
side. Expertly he manipulated the viewer until one of the rakish Delban
warships ballooned up mightily on its plate. The tell-tale coppery mesh
antenna was absent.

"That is fortunate," Glayne grunted dourly. "But there is the
possibility that these ships may be too small for the installation."

The Delbans began to decelerate and the _Algol's_ pilot hastily
imitated them. Faintly Glayne made out the tiny red ball that was
Sterle II. Uneasily Glayne realized that he had better go over the
plan once more with Niala Chodred. Next to himself, the Terran girl's
part was the most important. He grunted at Graysen to take over and
descended to her quarters. He knocked twice perfunctorily and entered
the room.

Niala smiled up at him, pleased at his visit. "How much longer now,
Captain?"

Glayne looked down at her, marveling at the failure of her absurdly
huge jumper in concealing the long, smooth curves of her body. Her
hair was a varied mass of copper and gold which gleamed with a subtle
display of half tones. In the cabin's fluorescents Glayne noted for the
first time that she had once been the owner of a saddle of freckles
across her nose. Now only one or two were left which contrasted
deliciously with the smoothness of her face. Glayne felt a sudden
desire to jet down on Sterle Capital like the legendary buccaneers and
ransack the best dress shops to outfit her properly.

"Well?" she said.

"Huh?" said Glayne foolishly. Then he collected his wandering thoughts
and replied, "Oh, yes. We're being escorted in now. We'll be down in a
couple of hours. I wanted to make a last minute check of the plan."

"Ahh," she replied, stretching with devastating effect in the heavy
jumper. "We've done this so many times, Captain. But really they're
very entertaining."

"I'm glad you like them," said Glayne dryly. "You should because the
plan is substantially the one you would have had me carry out under a
Ganser-personality."

She colored, then regained control of her vascular motors and recited
the plan in a sing-song monotone: "We jet down at Sterle Capital. You
and I attend the informal reception. Commander Graysen remains with
the _Algol_ along with Lieutenant Harbin. But precisely at twenty-one
hundred Standard, Harbin and twenty men leave the ship, ostensibly on
liberty. At twenty-one fifteen, you and I attempt to maneuver Gort
Bro-Doral and General Ganser together in conversation. At that moment
Lieutenant Harbin will land on the roof of the palace, attacking the
guards there. Then we will hustle the two Delbans into the elevator,
take them to the roof, and escape with Harbin in the flier. In the
meantime Graysen will have blasted off in the _Algol_; we will
intercept him twenty miles over Topo Gulf."

"Exactly," Glayne said. "Everything is going well so far. We've just
received permission to land a liberty party so we don't have to worry
about that anymore."

He took some hand-drawn maps from the case in his hand. "Brodis and
I made these from memory and a little inside information--one of the
palace, one of the roof, and one of the grounds. The whole thing
depends upon whether they are using an old style one-way shield. If so,
we can get out all right. Otherwise we're finished."

She nodded and bent over the maps. Glayne bit the end off of a cigar,
then lit it meticulously. He smiled quizzically at the girl. "How's
your courage?" he asked.

Her wide green eyes looked up thoughtfully into his. "I've seen some
shoe-string deals pulled before, but Captain, I'll have to award you
the prize--never one as thin and short as this."

Glayne felt a sudden fear and a sudden hunger as he looked at her. He
could not bear the thought of failure--and the consequent fate of Niala
Chodred. His cheek twitched nervously and he reached for her, gathering
her into his powerful arms and drawing her face to his. Her breath was
hot against his cheek and he could feel her heart pounding heavily
against his chest. Willingly she responded to his kisses.

"Here's to luck," he breathed.

"And plenty of it," she replied.


                                   V

Try as he might, Glayne could never accustom himself to these Sectors
which lay far out on the edge of the galaxy. Neighboring stars were
hundreds of light years apart while the great belt of stars that was in
the Main Galaxy revealed itself only as a faint haze twenty thousand
light years distant. He could not shake off the loneliness that settled
over him like a shroud, separating him from everything he knew. He was
accustomed to the vast star clouds of Sagittarius; it was there he had
spent the first ten years of his Guardianship.

A dry and thirsty wind seemed to suck the moisture from his body as he
waited by the after lock with Niala. It swept across the hard surface
of the space-port and sang dolefully around the mass of the grounded
_Algol_; it even seemed to characterize the Delbans themselves. A
lonely people out on this forsaken edge of the galaxy, they hungered
and thirsted after wealth and power. The Guardian sympathized with
them to some extent, yet at the same time realized the awful threat to
civilization they represented with the mysterious, titanic broadcast
power at their disposal.

Again Glayne felt inner qualms as he considered the odds against
them. Grimly he crushed them out and touched with almost superstitious
reverence the tiny blaster at his hip--for ornamental purposes only.
More confidently he hefted the weight of the heavy Cardy at his arm-pit.

The small surface-jet which had set out for the _Algol_ immediately
after the mushrooming blasts of its landing jets subsided now drew up
at the tiny waiting dock formed by the _Algol's_ after lock. The lack
of formality, Glayne knew, was as blatant an insult as the Delbans
could manage. He smiled mirthlessly to himself. They couldn't please
him more if they tried. The less pomp and ceremony attached to him, the
more smoothly his plan would work.

A single Delban emerged from the surface-jet, evidently a civilian
judging from his dress. He was incredibly tall and thin and made Glayne
very uncomfortable because he had to tilt his head back to get a good
look at him.

"Captain Glayne," began the emissary in a high, sighing nasal, "on
behalf of His Imperial Excellency, Ruler of Ten Thousand Suns, Master
of the Cosmos, and Supreme Overlord of the Delban Empire, Gort
Bro-Doral, I humbly welcome you to Sterle II." He bowed very low.

Glayne, nervously anticipating almost anything, could hardly restrain
his laughter at this comic pomposity. It was quite out of place in the
desolate, curiously-deserted space-port. He and Niala entered the rear
compartment of the surface car and sunk back in the luxurious cushions.
Their Delban guide tooled it with expert ease from the space-port and
down a traffic artery toward the bright blob on the horizon that was
Sterle Capital.

In minutes, it seemed, they were pausing for the first guard check
along the private road that led to the Bro's fabulous palace. Glayne
had been there once before, five years ago. They passed two more guard
checks. For a minute Glayne thought they were safely on the palace
grounds, only to be disillusioned by another, and this time very close,
guard check.

The weapons' detector emitted a raucous buzz when they came into its
field. Suspiciously the guards stared at them, their weapons leveled.
Seeing the tiny toy at Glayne's hip, they smiled and passed them on
with contemptuous nods.

What a hell of a mess, he thought to himself. It was too late to back
out. In another hour Harbin would be on his way to the palace--and
right into a hive of trigger-happy guards. One faint consolation
was their contempt which would render them more vulnerable to the
surprise attack he planned. But on the whole it looked pretty grim.
He suppressed his unhappy thoughts as the surface-jet drew up at last
beneath a gigantic, arched entrance.

Niala squeezed his hand bravely, casting a quick smile at him.

Heartened by her display of courage, he climbed from the little jet car
and followed the escorting Delban down a long series of luxuriously
furnished corridors. Eventually they turned off into an enormous
reception room brilliantly illuminated by chandeliers of priceless
Tharna crystals. Tremendous tapestries hung along the wall, depicting
ancient, pre-spaceship battle scenes. A score or so of guests stood
about the huge room, all of them quite obviously in very advanced
stages of drunkenness. Quite cheerfully they spilled drinks on the
priceless _jrik_ carpets or on the equally priceless marl Shanzi-wood
furnishings.

       *       *       *       *       *

Glayne was puzzled by all the intoxication. As he speculated, it
suddenly occurred to him that they were celebrating. Quite obviously
they believed that they had won a victory of some sort in the
diplomatic call by the Stellar Guardian _Algol_. Glayne had to agree
that it was a logical conclusion and resolved to exploit their mistaken
belief as far as possible.

The first person to be presented to Glayne and Niala was General Hoteh
Ganser. He was hopelessly drunk. Glayne knew the pop-eyed Delban
Espionage Chief only by reputation; he was rather disappointed at the
dried and withered figure he cut. Nevertheless he was pleased to see
the Delban in an intoxicated condition; he could be more easily handled.

"The Bro will arrive presently," their guide informed them.
Affairs of state prevented his presence at the moment. Meanwhile
they were introduced to a number of curious and intoxicated
guests--high-ranking, Glayne gathered, from the monotonous repetition
of titles.

Then General Ganser was before them again, accompanied by another
Delban in a brilliant uniform surmounted by a gaudy, flowing cape. He
was aristocratic and condescending in his demeanor and a smile played
about his eyes and dry lips.

"May I present His Excellency, Gort Bro-Doral ... Captain Glayne of the
Stellar Guardians," introduced Ganser. His eyes were owlish with forced
dignity. Gort Bro-Doral waved him away with a careless sweep of his arm
and bowed politely to Glayne.

"I think we met several years ago, Captain. Am I right? But of course.
Won't you and your ... er ... lady have a drink?"

Glayne colored angrily. Yes, they would have a drink. He glanced
casually at his wrist-chrono. Twenty minutes ... just twenty minutes
before Harbin would be down on the roof.

He sipped slowly at the huge cup of _borse_ which the Bro had
personally ladled out for him, letting its blue-green smoothness ease
his parched throat and his nervousness. Niala, at his sign, slipped
away and was immediately surrounded by a crowd of the outlanders,
General Ganser at the head. They knew a good thing when they saw it,
Glayne reflected wryly.

Gort Bro-Doral eyed him with amusement across the mammoth _borse_ bowl.
"Now really, Captain, why did you come here? Surely not to inform us of
the decision of your sacred Policy Organ?" The Ruler of Ten Thousand
Suns emitted an odd, explosive noise that corresponded to laughter.

To the Delban leader's question Glayne replied cautiously, "The
Guardians have landed on their feet in every major crisis for the last
thousand years. Perhaps we want to land feet-first this time."

"That is quite understandable, Captain," replied Gort Bro-Doral,
cautious in his turn.

"When one side in a battle has unlimited strength," Glayne continued,
"the wise man has no difficulty in deciding whom he will support. That
is similar to our own position, Your Excellency."

Again Bro-Doral produced his strange, whinnying laugh. "Really,
Captain, you amaze me. The future Delban Empire cannot tolerate
such things as mercenary armies and space fleets--nor do we need
such organizations to win our battles now. But, if you could bring
yourself to the point of forgetting your traditions and other related
paraphernalia of which you are so fond, then there is a possibility
that you might be absorbed into the Delban Space Navy. Of course, you
would have to submit to our commands--but that's understandable...."

Glayne exulted inwardly. The Bro simply saw them begging for a crumb of
the spoils--he enjoyed his power to humiliate the Stellar Guardians.
But what he didn't see, contrary to the old adage, was going to trim
his scrawny neck. Where were Niala and Ganser? A minute to go!

"Your conditions are rather harsh, Your Excellency," he said, looking
around for Niala. "But perhaps tomorrow...?"

"Yes. Tomorrow by all means, Captain. And it will be a formal occasion
this time." Again Bro-Doral produced his explosive laugh, glancing
obliquely at Glayne from beneath lowered eyelids. Amusement at the
Guardian's plight bubbled in the depths of his otherwise fathomless
black eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

A sudden series of shocks made the floor shudder and Glayne's heart
jumped to his throat. Harbin had struck! Out of the corner of his eye
he perceived Niala thrusting a big, black Cardy into Ganser's back,
concealing it beneath his cape. Glayne drew his own and thrust it into
Bro-Doral's ribs.

"Keep laughing, damn you!" Glayne instructed. "Walk to the roof
elevator--casually." Glayne's eyes flickered rapidly about the room.
Niala was right behind him with the staggering and nonplussed General
Ganser. He thrust his weapon into the fold of his jumper before it
could be seen. Repeated tremors shook the floor--Harbin must be digging
them out with a secondary Kellander, he thought fleetingly.

"You must be insane!" choked the Master of the Cosmos. "The roof
guards--the palace guards and my own personal men will blast you down
before you can set a foot outside this room!"

"_Just--keep--laughing!_" Glayne said, emphasizing every word. One
or two of the guests looked at them curiously as they approached
the massive doors, then turned away indifferently. The trembling
had ceased. That meant that Harbin had cleared away the immediate
defenses--but Glayne knew it would be a race with the reinforcements.

The doors were opened before them by attendants--slowly and with
agonizing dignity. Two hawk-eyed Delban guards glanced at them sharply
as they entered the corridor that led to the Bro's private apartment
and the crucial fifth level roof elevator. Ever so slowly they moved
down the corridor. It was a snail's pace to Glayne. Gort Bro-Doral
laughed--or gasped in his sickly, explosive manner. He gestured. He
spoke to Glayne, waving his arms in a deprecating manner. And all
the while the Guardian looked innocently into the Delban's tormented
features, his hand clinging wetly to the Cardy in the folds of his
jumper.

They met no more guards in the corridor; evidently the rest of them had
hastened to the roof. But the first two were still eyeing them. Glayne
could feel their stares burning into his back. Twenty feet separated
them from the waiting elevator ... fifteen ... ten. Niala had drawn
abreast with General Ganser; the sick, the pale, the fuzzy-minded
Intelligence Chief whose cunning was known throughout the Galaxy.

There was a sudden commotion behind them. Glayne cast a glance over
his shoulder and saw the corridor rapidly filling with uniformed and
heavily-armed Delbans. They commanded him to stop; he smiled back. They
brandished their weapons; he waved back gaily, herding the prisoners
into the open elevator. They rushed after him; he drew his Cardy gun,
crouched, and fired with murderous effect. Then he lunged into the
elevator and jabbed the roof stud.

Swiftly it rose. Glayne turned to the two Delbans. The Ruler of Ten
Thousand Suns was in a blue funk but General Ganser had pulled himself
together a bit. His heavily-veined, crimson eyes blazed furiously at
the kidnapers.

"Be careful with the General," Glayne warned. "He is dangerous when
sober."

She managed a weak smile and thereby jumped another ten points in
Glayne's esteem. The elevator sighed to a stop and the heavy door slid
open, letting the dry wind pluck at them. Glayne turned his blaster
on the controls, fusing them into tangled slag. Then he crept to the
open door, crouched, and surveyed the palace roof in the pale, rosy
illumination shed by one of Sterle's just-risen moons.

On his left, not a hundred yards away, lay the flier from the _Algol_.
Three gunners from the crew were operating a portable Kellander, firing
along the edge of the anti-energy shield which had been generated from
the flier to prevent other Delban roof emplacements from destroying
the little assault force. The rest of the attacking group manned
Delban energy projectors that were still in operating condition,
sending a heavy fire into possible concentration points for an enemy
counter-attack. Bodies--mostly Delban--sprawled everywhere.

"We'll have to run for it," Glayne said. "They've erected an
anti-shield between us and the flier. Once we gain that, we're safe."

Niala nodded and prodded the two prisoners out of the elevator. Bending
low, they ran diagonally across the roof toward the shimmering ovoid
that was the anti-shield. They had not gone more than forty steps
before a counter-attacking wave of Delban palace guards suddenly
appeared on their right. Cursing, Glayne doubled about and increased
his pace in order not to be cut off. "Glayne! Slow down ... I can't
keep up," the girl panted.

The Guardian glanced anxiously back at her just in time to be struck
full force by General Ganser's flying body. They went down together
in a wild tangle of thrashing arms and legs. The Delban, in spite of
his dissipation, was tough and wiry; his long fingers sought Glayne's
throat and clung to it with a vise-like grip. In vain the Guardian
battered his body with sledge-hammer blows of his fists. Somewhere he
had lost his gun. A black film threatened to engulf his consciousness
as he struggled against the strangling grip of General Ganser. Vaguely
he felt the roof on which he lay tremble from the impact of the energy
beams that smashed into it.

From far away he heard Niala scream. It was a bitter spur to his
flagging strength. Summoning every last reserve, he tore Ganser's
clutching hands from his throat and flung him down to the roof. Not
done yet, the Delban snatched up Glayne's weapon which had fallen in
the first seconds of the combat and lifted it to fire. Furiously Glayne
launched his booted foot at Ganser in a savage kick. Bones crunched as
it caught him full in the face and the impact sent him spinning.

Glayne scooped up the Cardy gun and searched desperately for Niala. The
Delban palace guard continued to storm the little Guardian stronghold,
but the fire of the defenders took horrible effect on their ranks.
In the darkness he saw Niala's crumpled form on the roof. And almost
immediately afterwards he saw Gort Bro-Doral fleeing to the safety of
his attacking soldiers. Holding his breath, Glayne tried a long range
shot. But it was to no avail. The Supreme Overlord had made good his
escape.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anxiously Glayne bent over the girl who was just beginning to stir.
There was a nasty welt on her forehead.

"I'm all right," she gasped, rising to her feet. "Where's Bro-Doral?
Did he get away?"

Glayne nodded grimly. "Yes, but never mind. We've got this one. Hurry!"

Grunting, he swung Ganser's supine form to his shoulder and ran panting
to the edge of the anti-shield. He halted a pace before the shimmering
field and pulled a dark-colored disc from his pocket. Set beforehand to
the shield frequency that Harbin would use, its purpose was to nullify
a small section long enough for them to slip through.

Hastily his fingers flipped the trigger and it began to vibrate
furiously in his hand. Instantly an irregular opening flickered in the
lethal shimmer of the shield. Glayne shoved the girl through, then
darted after her with Ganser over his shoulder.

Harbin waved joyously at them from the flier turret, his youthful
face wreathed in smiles. "We can't hold them much longer," he shouted.
"They're nullifying the shield with field scramblers. Hurry!"

Right behind Glayne as he steered Niala through the lock and leaped
in behind her came the portable Kellander crew, still firing as they
backed the gun into the flier. With a _clang_ the locks slammed shut
and the flier's driver engines thundered. With a single motion of his
arm, Harbin released the anti-shield and fed the pent-up driver power
to the jets. With a tremendous heave that crushed Glayne back rigidly
in his seat the flier blasted up from the palace roof.

Harbin flung the flier around in a screaming turn and thundered low
over the vast forest preserves that surrounded the palace. The tall,
scraggly trees seemed to brush against the ship's stubby fins as Harbin
sought to evade enemy pursuit. Grunting with effort, Glayne clambered
up to the nose of the craft and sank back into a shock seat beside the
pilot.

Grimly the Guardian Captain peered ahead at the huge, featureless
ovoid of grey which was fast rushing down upon them. It was the palace
defense shield. If it was the new type, then they were licked because
nothing could get in or out. But the two-way shields were dangerous
and unnecessary as protection for a natural siege position like Gort
Bro-Doral's palace. Hence Glayne had concluded that the Delbans would
keep their old style shield.

Or had he made a mistake in his reasoning? Glayne tensed unconsciously
as the tiny flier flashed toward the grey ovoid. It was all or nothing.
And suddenly the flier slashed through it like so much paper.

Glayne suppressed a sigh of relief at the vindication of his logic.
Now the flier was hurtling over Sterle Capital. Harbin, in an effort
to avoid enemy detectors, was almost flying down the very streets.
Their wild gamble almost looked as if it would pay off. Glayne hoped
fervently that Graysen had managed to evade the two Delban escort
destroyers that had accompanied them to the space-port. The _Algol_
would be a sitting duck over Topo Gulf until the flier arrived.

But after that, Glayne thought grimly, they were clear. No matter
how much power the Delbans could receive from their astounding
transmitter, they could not withstand a sustained ten G thrust like
his crew of heavy planet men. Then he thought of Niala, accustomed to
Terran Standard. He bit his lip. She would just have to take it; there
was no other way.

The flier had left Sterle Capital far behind and was climbing rapidly
into the stratosphere. Evidently the surprise attack had disorganized
the Delban patrols and drawn them like flies to the city. At any rate,
not one was in sight as their flier streaked over Topo Gulf.

Feverishly Harbin doubled the flier back and forth, searching the conic
broadcast beam of the _Algol_, undetectable behind her inert screen.
Finally a welcome series of dots and dashes crackled from the receiver
and Harbin brought the flier around in a screaming turn to follow the
directional beam. Cautiously he slowed the craft as the intensity of
the signals increased. Suddenly the reception maw gaped at them out of
grey nothingness--and the flier shuddered to a stop at the _Algol's_
landing dock.

Hastily Glayne jumped out of the flier and hurried to the navigation
bridge, dropping Niala in her quarters along the way. Harbin would take
General Ganser--the precious, indispensable Ganser--to Surgery for
facial repairs.

Graysen nodded at him, as taciturn as ever. "Your orbit, Captain?"

"Anywhere," Glayne replied. "Anywhere, just so long as we get far
enough out of this system to drop into sub-space." He rubbed his
bristly chin for a moment, thinking. "Make it eight G's," he added.

Graysen acknowledged and turned away. Almost immediately the inert
screens were dropped and a floor began to build under Glayne's feet. By
the time he had mounted to the Captain's Station, he was panting with
effort. Automatically he jabbed an anti-thrust surette into his arm and
felt his muscles relax instantaneously under the influence of the magic
drug.

The inter-ship communicator phones gurgled over his head for a couple
of seconds, then Brodis' voice issued from the speaker: "The General
is floating up to his ears in verchromynal, Captain. They're putting
his face back together right now. Give the word and I'll go to work on
him, thrust or no thrust."

"No," Glayne replied. "We'll make sub-space in a few hours. Then we'll
have all the time we need to pump him. And, Lieutenant...."

"Sir?"

"Prepare the General's very own treatments for him."

Brodis paused for an appreciable instant, then said, "Right, Captain,"
and cut off.

Glayne watched the globe of Sterle II diminish in his battle screen
with deep satisfaction. The first step in his plan had been carried
off with miraculous good fortune. Now the most pressing necessity was
speed. Once the _Algol_ was sufficiently far from mass to drop into
sub-space, the mysterious power source of the Delbans would be only
a couple of hours distant at the most. With Ganser under control and
acting as a safe conduct, Glayne saw success dangling just within his
fingers.

Yet deep within his nether-mind he felt a twinge of foreboding--as
if he had forgotten some vital factor in his calculations. The dim
awareness was almost on the threshold of prescience, but it was too
indistinct for him to make out clearly. Uneasily he sought to ignore it
but could not.


                                  VI

In sub-space, time crept along in low gear. Glayne was aware of the
fact that five hours in sub-space corresponded to about forty minutes
in flat, normal space due to the difference in time rates. But time was
time, whether fast or slow. General Hoteh Ganser also realized that
time was passing; in fact, he exerted every effort to increase the
length of time the _Algol_ would have to remain in sub-space.

Sullenly he stared at Brodis and Glayne as they stood over him. There
was a hint of amusement in the depths of his peculiar, crimson eyes.

"You deserve congratulations in the success of your attack, Captain
Glayne," he said mockingly. "A touch of bravado here, a bit too
audacious there ... but, all in all, quite well executed. His
Excellency will remember it for a long time. In fact, your success now
will add to his delight at witnessing your Vibra-Death later."

Glayne suppressed an involuntary shudder. What a fertile imagination
the Delban had!

"Shut up!" snapped Brodis with disgust in his voice. "You might as
well make it easier for yourself, Ganser. Relax your mind barriers or
we will smash them down and drag the information from you. Either way,
we'll get it in the end!"

Ganser sneered at the young Guardian.

"I can loosen him up with some physical persuasion, Captain," suggested
Brodis hopefully.

Ganser made an obscene remark which brought Brodis to his feet,
enraged. The young officer was on the verge of clobbering him with a
meaty fist, but Glayne stopped him.

"Such an old veteran as the General is certain to have taken the
precaution of having automatic anesthesia cultures introduced into his
blood stream," he said. "He would like nothing better than to have you
strike him because the sustained trauma of physical pain would trigger
the anesthesia and make him unconscious for as long as forty-eight
hours."

Ganser made a mocking bow to Glayne.

The Guardian Captain rubbed his cheek wearily. Nothing else but the
Ganser conditioner probe now, he realized. He caught Brodis' eye and
moved his head slightly in the direction of the gleaming mass of coils
and the huge helmet which was the Ganser conditioner.

Brodis nodded. With the aid of a couple of the technicians he set the
helmet down carefully over the General's bald pate.

"Have you ever tried these wonderful treatments of yours, General?"
Brodis inquired with clinical detachment. "They eliminate all your
worries in instants, I understand. They can even make a new man of you,
I'm told."

Ganser remained obstinately silent as the massive helmet was adjusted
about his head and clamped to the chair in which he was secured. In
spite of himself Glayne admired the Delban's strength of will. He, if
anyone, should know the mental anguish of the conditioner. But now it
was dog eat dog, kill or be killed, and the devil take the hindmost.
He nodded imperceptibly to Brodis who was waiting for the signal to
begin.

Hours passed and Glayne cursed each inexorable minute. He and Brodis
and the four grey-faced technicians were wet with perspiration. Ganser
drooped in the chair, but his crimson eyes still blazed with fanatical
hatred.

"Lord, what barriers!" whispered Brodis. He stared with fascination at
the indomitable Delban.

"What is the power source?" Glayne asked repeatedly, holding his face
impassive through sheer force of will. "You want to help us, Guardian.
Tell us about the broadcast power."

The conditioned self was slowly beginning to take shape in Ganser's
mind. It offered a new set of values, new goals and desires, uppermost
of which was to give all possible aid to the Stellar Guardians. Thus
the Ganser-personality they were so painstakingly superimposing upon
the Delban was almost that of a Stellar Guardian. Gradually they saw it
appear in the Delban's crimson eyes.

"The Tane Jewel," he whispered. "Found it in space ... no bigger than
a Terran grapefruit. Engineers ... found way to drain its power
potential ... almost infinite."

The Tane! The Flame-Jewel of the Elder Tane!

       *       *       *       *       *

Glayne was stunned. He remembered the legends he had heard of the
incredible Tane--weird creatures who had ruled the Galaxy long before
the existence of protein life forms. He even recalled the tales of
their fabulous Second Universe in which they had sought refuge in order
to maintain an artificial stasis and escape extermination. Ever since
the discovery of the Tane legends, scientists had speculated about the
Second Universe and the titanic source of power it represented. And now
it had been found by the Delban Empire and was at the disposal of Gort
Bro-Doral.

What had Ganser called it? A _Jewel_--and no larger than a grapefruit!
Incredulously Glayne snapped a glance at one of the technicians who
was watching the jerking movements of the lie detector stylus on its
graphed scroll. The man looked up and nodded, his mouth a tight line
across his face.

Glayne turned back to the Delban prisoner. "Where is the power
broadcast from, Guardian?" he asked urgently.

"Tjadlinn," muttered Ganser, under the control of a pseudo-Guardian
personality. "Jorger Sun ... deep helio orbit. The planetless Jorger
Sun--remember, _we_ were commissioned to clear it of meteor drift.
Later _they_ built the Tjadlinn discoid around the Jewel...."

Glayne smiled mirthlessly. So the Delbans had planted the Jewel right
under their noses. Yet what more logical place! He recalled the job
he had supervised there five years before. The Delbans were going to
build a power research station in an orbit about the planetless sun--a
practice common in many Sectors.

Glayne tensed as he leaned toward Ganser to ask a third question. It
was the crucial one and the others knew it. There was a hushed silence
as Glayne asked:

"What is the frequency of the Jewel power broadcast? What do you know
about the design of the mesh receiving antennae? Tell us, Guardian. We
need your help."

Silence followed Glayne's question. It lengthened and became unbearable.

At last: "The mesh antennae are manufactured at the secret Karkara
Fleet Station on Scone III. It is defended by Jewel-powered Kellander
batteries in addition to secondary auxiliary projectors. The approach
code is not available to me. Neither is there information available on
broadcast frequencies or antenna design."

Glayne smashed his fist against his leg in violent disappointment.
The facts were simply not available in Ganser's mind, so the
pseudo-Guardian personality naturally failed to produce them. Again
Glayne felt a twinge of respect for the Delban. If anyone knew the
technical secrets of the Jewel broadcast, it should have been Ganser.
But the Delban's wily cunning had thwarted them. He had carefully
avoided all technical knowledge of the Jewel, anticipating an attempt
to drain his mind.

There was only one course open to him now. Attack Tjadlinn! He looked
at his wrist-chrono. Twelve hours they had spent in this nether-space!
It was inconceivable. Glayne swore to himself and thought furiously.

According to Ganser, the mass of the Tjadlinn discoid was too slight
to maintain an interstellar telephone; only message craft connected it
with the rest of Bro-Doral's empire. That was a break, thought Glayne.
In spite of the time they had spent in sub-space, they might still
reach Jorger Sun before a warning came from Sterle II. With Ganser
under their control and posing as a guide, they could bluff through the
outer defenses of the Jewel station. Once inside, they would have to
take the breaks as they came.

His shoulders suddenly sagged at the appalling decision he would have
to make. Once within the discoid, he would be cut off from outside
communication and could not warn the fleet if anything went wrong.
On the other hand, the fleet had to be standing by or there was no
possible chance of success. Desperately he sought for alternatives to
his scheme but none presented themselves. The Terran Combine's last
chance rested within his own hands, he realized grimly. An immediate
decision had to be made. But if he failed....

With sudden resolve he crushed out his burning doubts and turned
to Brodis. "Take the fastest flier we have, dope yourself up with
verchromynal, and go to the Stellar Guardian Communication Station
at Zandrome. They generate enough power there to push a message over
the interstellar telephone to Dorleb in thirty-five minutes. Contact
Admiral Garstow. Give him all the information we have and tell him that
Scone III will be without Jewel power in forty-eight hours. Have him
advise Admiral Bardled of the Terran Fleet that his aid is essential.
Inform Garstow that every available fleet unit _must_ be at Scone III
in forty-eight hours. Hurry!"

Brodis reached the door in one jump and was half-way down the corridor
in another. Glayne watched him go, bleakly phrasing the rest of
the message under his breath. _Garstow_, he thought, _you will be
slaughtered if there's one tiny slip on my part. It's good you don't
know about it._

Then Glayne shrugged and went up to the navigation bridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jorger Sun was barely visible through the glassene observation ports.
But it blew up hugely in Glayne's auxiliary battle screen--a white
dwarf of brilliant intensity and a temperature equal to that of the
greatest white super-giants in the main galaxy. It was incredibly
_alone_ out on the furthest reaches of the vast, trailing arms of the
galaxy.

The _Algol_ was decelerating as it flashed toward Jorger Sun. Somewhere
behind it was the Tjadlinn discoid built around the fabulous Tane
Jewel. It would look strange, Glayne knew, if they were detected in
a maximum ten G deceleration thrust while on an official inspection
tour--especially with their low-gravity guide, General Ganser, aboard.

Commander Graysen approached, shifting his weight from one gnarled
leg to the other in the space-man's shuffling gait. His leathery face
widened in a rare grin as he reached Glayne. "I should have retired
after that last cruise," he wheezed. "Here is Harbin for last minute
instructions, Captain."

Glayne nodded to the younger officer. "Harbin, you will take over when
Commander Graysen and I leave with the landing party. If you are fired
upon while we are inside the discoid, clear out fast. Take the _Algol_
to Scone III as quickly as possible. Warn Admiral Garstow that my plan
has failed and that it would be best to disperse all fleet units. Under
no conditions are you to attempt battle. Do you understand?"

"Aye, sir!" snapped the youngster. His face worked for an instant, but
he suppressed his protest and brought himself under control.

"Destination in sight, Captain Glayne," called the pilot over the
communicator.

"Cut deceleration to four G's." To Graysen: "How is Ganser?"

"In excellent shape--even his face. According to Psych he is completely
under control."

Glayne turned back to his screen and stared at the expanding Tjadlinn
discoid. Instinctively he looked for the slim and deadly Jewel-powered
cruisers that would be waiting for them if a warning had reached
Tjadlinn. But of course he saw nothing. If they were there, they would
be masked by inert detector screens, waiting for him to approach so
closely that no amount of frantic acceleration could tear him from
their grasp.

The discoid was a huge thing of beralloy, all of ten kilometers in
diameter. About half-way from the center he could make out the landing
dock as Ganser had indicated. He could also make out the evil snouts
of Kellander projectors sprouting in clusters on Tjadlinn's metallic
surface. Even as he watched, they wheeled about ominously, coming to
bear on the decelerating _Algol_. Were they simply taking precautions,
Glayne wondered, or were they cagily waiting for him to climb right
down the barrels of their projectors?

As he stood alone before the battle screen he suddenly felt a small
hand touch his. He looked around. It was Niala Chodred, subdued and
somewhat apprehensive. She looked up at him intently, forcing him to
meet her eyes.

"I believe you are planning to leave me behind in the ship when you
land at Tjadlinn, aren't you?"

Glayne winced at the slight accusation in her eyes. A sudden wave of
nervous irritation welled up in him and he was on the verge of hurling
a curse at her and driving her back to her quarters. But the tenderness
in her eyes made him feel guilty because of his hasty mood and he
relented.

"Yes," he said. "I'm very sorry. The ship is unsafe enough as it is,
but down there--" he gestured at the image of Tjadlinn in the screen,
"--down there will be fighting and certainly many casualties."

"But if I am present," she pointed out logically, "they will be much
less likely to suspect you of hostile intentions."

"How do you think I would feel if you were killed down there?" Glayne
asked, avoiding her eyes.

"How do you think I would feel if you were?" she countered.

Glayne turned to her, about to point out another difficulty, then said
nothing. Suddenly she was in his arms and he felt his senses swim at
her touch. For a timeless instant he forgot everything but the warm,
laughing, green-eyed Niala whom he held in his arms.


                                  VII

Tjadlinn was gigantic. It rotated on its central axis once every
forty hours and completed a revolution about Jorger Sun once every
eighty-five years. The orbit was like that of a comet; at perihelion
its velocity approached seventy miles per second. Now it had begun its
journey away from the sun, swinging out into the infinite blackness of
the lonely void.

Grimly the Guardian Captain looked at his crewmen, sturdy big-planet
men like himself. There were six of them. Glayne wondered how many
would be left when they returned--if they ever did return. He looked
at the girl and wondered if she would return. She smiled at him as the
artificial planetoid loomed hugely over their tiny landing launch. He
felt no regret that she was along--his mind ignored all such feelings
of that nature now. Instead it was concentrated to the highest degree
of receptivity, sorting and classifying the sense impressions that came
to it.

The massive beralloy portals of the outer air-lock gaped open at them
and the launch jetted inside. Then they closed with a thunderous
_clang_ and the inner doors slid open in an oddly obsequious fashion.
They were much less ponderous than the outer doors, Glayne noted.
A moment later the launch came to rest and General Hoteh Ganser,
Chief of Delban Intelligence, stalked out of the cabin followed by
representatives of the Stellar Guardians, now allied with the Delban
Empire.

There was a group of high-ranking Delban Army and Fleet officers
awaiting them as they stepped from the launch. They bowed ceremoniously
to Ganser, then to Glayne and his party as they were introduced. The
Guardian smiled, he bowed, he clicked his heels solemnly--but all the
time his hand was casually resting inside of the fold of his jumper on
the Cardy gun there.

The only name Glayne remembered was that of the commander of Tjadlinn
discoid: Admiral Selzi-Narfid, Right Royal Protector of the Emperor's
Hunting Preserves. But he was not notable because of his absurd title;
rather, it was the hint of amusement that Glayne fancied he saw
flickering in the depths of his jet black eyes.

It was Selzi-Narfid who turned to Ganser and said: "I'm sure you must
be weary after your arduous journey, Your Excellency. Won't you and
Captain Glayne and his party partake of some refreshment?"

Glayne frowned. That was not so good. They could not afford to waste
time eating and drinking because the message craft might bring the
warning from Sterle II at any minute. Yet how could they refuse?

Evidently this same train of thought flashed through the conditioned
intellect of General Ganser. For just an instant he paused before
saying yes, they would be delighted.

Again Selzi-Narfid bowed and this time Glayne was positive he saw
mockery in the Tjadlinn commander's eyes. Following him, they entered a
large mono-car poised on its single, gleaming span by gyros. It started
with a jolt, picked up speed, and was presently bulleting down the
tunnel, the walls a blur on either side. To Glayne it almost seemed as
if they were moving down hill.

"You will notice the gravity attraction increasing as we progress,"
began Selzi-Narfid. "That is because we are approaching the Jewel. It
is considerably more comfortable in my quarters close to the center. On
the periphery of the discoid one has almost no weight because of the
distance from the Jewel.

"No one knows the exact mass of the Tane Jewel. Probably around two
hundred million tons, it is thought. Naturally it is not safe to
approach too closely--the inverse square law, you know. Within a few
meters the attraction is so tremendous that we have great difficulty in
anchoring the power drain machinery. But you will see for yourself in
the Jewel Chamber."

The mono-car sighed to a halt and Selzi-Narfid ushered them graciously
into a tapestried corridor. Glayne noticed that the gravity was just
about Terran Standard. He also noticed that Selzi-Narfid, in spite
of his flow of suave conversation, was worried. Suddenly a peculiar
sensation of _wrongness_ flared up in Glayne's mind and he knew that
his battle-trained, preternatural intuition was at work. His hand
tightened on the Cardy and his eyes flickered everywhere but could
discover nothing.

At the wide entrance stage the Admiral held back, gesturing for Ganser,
Glayne, and the others to precede him. The small hairs on the back of
Glayne's neck arose as they entered the luxurious suite of the Tjadlinn
commander. Something was definitely very wrong.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then sick dismay scalded up in the pit of his stomach. He saw what was
wrong. It was Gort Bro-Doral who faced them, a Cardy gun in his hand.

Calmly the Delban Overlord fired at Ganser. The energy beam lashed into
the pseudo-Guardian, making a big, ragged hole where his belly had been.

Glayne could do nothing more than stare helplessly. He did not even
think to resist when the room filled with armed Delbans who went about
the job of disarming them in a very silent and efficient fashion.

"Such a pity," remarked Gort Bro-Doral, glancing down at Ganser's
charred and crumpled body. "Hoteh was my right hand, but the poor
wretch was just too thorough. His own mind-conditioning device caught
him in the end." He produced his sickly, explosive laugh and inclined
his head to one of the armed Delbans. "Take it away," he murmured.

"How did you get here so quickly?" Glayne said, asking the question
uppermost in his mind. He was bewildered to think of the incredible
acceleration the low-gravity Delban must have undergone to have beaten
the Guardian ship.

"Another of the wonders of the glorious Tane Jewel," replied Bro-Doral
with amused condescension. "Theoretically it was always possible to
project material bodies into sub-space directly from planetary mass in
the same way that the immaterial waves of an interstellar telephone
message are cast directly into sub-space. Heretofore, however, there
has never been sufficient power to form a shield around the material
object strong enough to prevent its being completely crushed by the
brutal space warp in the presence of mass. That difficulty vanishes
when one has the unlimited power of the Tane Jewel at his disposal."

Glayne understood. Ganser, who had meticulously avoided all technical
knowledge, did not know this. Consequently they had walked straight
into a trap. Glayne's shoulders sagged as he looked around, savouring
the taste of defeat. Tough old Graysen stood at his side, impotently
balling his fists. His carefully picked crewmen were behind him, arms
above their heads. They looked grim and ready for anything. But Niala...

Glayne fought down the painful lump in his throat. It made no
difference. They had the _Algol_, too. So it mattered not at all
whether she came along or stayed behind, he told himself. They had
only one thing to look forward to--and that would be unpleasant.
Surreptitiously he touched the massive ring on his hand. It contained a
single blaster charge. Shakily he resolved to use it on Niala when it
came to that.

Bro-Doral whinnied. "I have your day planned for you, Captain," he
said. "I have often been accused of lacking a sense of justice, but
you will see for yourself that such a charge wrongs me. Your men will
be executed as humanly as possible. You and the esteemed Graysen will
be given a chance to witness the destruction of your ship. And then--"
the Delban snickered, "--the Vibra-Death! The girl ... I'm not sure.
Yes, it will take some thought. But you may be sure that it will be
interesting."

Bro-Doral's sadism was too much for Glayne. With a snarl of animal
hatred he leaped at the Delban Overlord, brushing aside his Cardy gun
and reaching for his throat. The force of his lunge carried them back
a few steps and the Bro tripped. Glayne, blazing with blind rage,
lifted his foot to crush the Bro like a worm. At that instant a cold
beam lanced into his back. Its icy fingers played along his spine and
paralyzed him with numbness. Helplessly his arms fell to his sides and
two of the armed Delbans came up behind him, supporting him to prevent
his falling.

Gort Bro-Doral clambered up from the floor. His heavily-veined eyes
were red with insane ferocity. He thrust his contorted face close to
Glayne's own and said: "Guardian, you will now be extended another
privilege. You will be permitted to see the girl writhing in the
agonies of the Vibra-Death!"

Bro-Doral turned to one of his men. "Take those crewmen away--execute
them," he said. "Keep the girl here under guard while I show the two
officers around."

Glayne was horrified at the fruits of his unthinking attack on the
Bro. It was almost as if he himself had pulled the switch which would
subject Niala to the most infamous nerve torture ever devised. Dully he
realized that he could not even lift his hand to administer a merciful
death with the clean, fast energy beam of his ring.

"The paralysis will wear off in a minute or two, Captain," observed
Bro-Doral. He had completely regained his self-control. "Since you
have exerted so much useless effort to destroy our Tane Jewel, I think
you ought at least be permitted to see it. But after that--" he sighed
expressively, "--after that, we will procrastinate no longer."

Even before the effects of the cold-beam had worn off completely,
Bro-Doral nodded to his men and they took him by the arms and escorted
him from the room. In despair, Glayne tried to jerk his head around to
see the girl. For the briefest of instants he saw her smiling bravely
at him. Then his view was cut off by the door as the guards maneuvered
his still half-paralyzed frame around it.

In a couple of moments Glayne was able to move under his own power.
He turned to find Graysen staring anxiously at him, alert for the
slightest command. Glayne nodded imperceptibly and examined the guards.
There were six of them. He noticed wryly that they held cold-beam
weapons in their long-fingered fists while the ones that really
produced the fatal damage--the Cardys--hung in holsters at their sides.
Trust them not to risk killing their prisoners when so many more
delightful methods presented themselves, he thought bitterly.

       *       *       *       *       *

As he and Graysen were led side-by-side down a maze of corridors, their
weight gradually increased. Along with it was the sensation of going
down hill. Glayne's mind operated rapidly and with cold precision but
the Delbans showed not the slightest weakness. Not even the increase in
gravity seemed to annoy them. Nevertheless, Glayne resolved, he would
risk everything on a sudden attack when they got as close to the Jewel
as possible. There the conditions would be ideal for him. With eyes
narrowed, he tried desperately to remember the turns they had taken
through the winding corridors of the beralloy discoid.

As they progressed Glayne saw the tough, all-metal walls were more
heavily buttressed with the massive beralloy supports. Selzi-Narfid saw
the direction of his glance and said, "Those were necessary when we
maneuvered the Jewel into the center of the discoid. You have no idea
of what such a tremendous mass in a body the size of the Jewel can do
when it is not balanced."

Glayne listened to the Admiral with just a part of his mind. His main
attention was devoted to photographing mentally the warren of passages.
Here and there he saw groups of Delban technicians, none of them armed.

Good, thought Glayne.

They reached the entrance stage of the Jewel Chamber. The beralloy
walls here were nearly a meter thick. In single file the party crawled
through the narrow opening that dilated ponderously in the entrance
stage. Two very weary-looking guards snapped to attention as they
passed, but almost immediately slumped back into their somnolent
positions, exhausted by their abnormally increased weight.

Better yet, thought Glayne.

"This is the Jewel Chamber, Captain. It is the very heart of Tjadlinn,"
puffed Selzi-Narfid after he had crawled through the dilated entrance
stage.

Glayne stared about the vaulted room curiously. It was shaped like the
inside of an oval, thick at the center but tapering off to nothing at
the sides. They were standing on a balcony which was heavily buttressed
and ran all the way around the Chamber past several other massive
portals. In the exact center of the Chamber a kind of a nest was formed
by the tremendously thick beralloy girders. Something burned there with
a cold, golden brilliance that filtered through the interstices of the
girders and etched them sharply in banded shadows about the heavy walls.

An uncanny sensation possessed Glayne as he gazed at the Jewel. A vague
dread passed over him and he found himself wondering if the Elder Tane
Gods would emerge from their crypt and wreak hideous vengeance on mere
mortals for disturbing their sleep. Uneasily he crushed the fantasy
that was rioting up in his mind and determined to look for something
more practical.

He concentrated on the power drain machinery which hung in clusters
from the massive girders. Obviously those mechanisms were far more
delicate than their supports and could be sabotaged with comparatively
little work. As he calculated he gradually became aware of Bro-Doral
who was speaking:

"--were remarkable creatures. As you know, Tane legends exist in every
part of the known galaxy. They even possessed immortality--but they
lost it for all practical purposes when they failed to adjust their
bodies to the expanding universe.

"While the universe expands, quanta emission frequencies remain
constant. You are familiar, of course, with the shift in the wave
length of the cadmium spectrum, taken over the centuries. Ages ago,
emission frequencies were so long, relatively speaking, that energy
liberation from protein organisms was impossible. That definitely rules
out protein construction for the Tane--but just what they were composed
of is unknown. At any rate, their bodies couldn't stand the shortened
emission frequencies which overloaded their muscles. They exploded.
Like a plague. Billions and billions of them must have died before they
discovered the answer to the strange death that was striking among
them. And billions more must have died before their marvelous science
was able to build the Second Universe, as the legends call it."

Gort Bro-Doral gestured at the Jewel which shed its cold, brilliant
light about the Chamber.

"They enclosed themselves in that tiny ovoid crypt you see there," he
went on. "That was countless ages ago. Somehow they had managed to
construct shields capable of withstanding the spatial expansion of the
universe. Who knows--they may still live in their static crypt?

"As millions and millions of years passed, the Tane Jewel--the Second
Universe, as the legends call it--slowly dwindled in size when
considered in relation to our own universe. As it dwindled, its energy
potential grew. Now its accumulated charge is so titanic that it defies
conception.

"Some day those beautiful engines of the Tane Gods would have run down
and the shield would have collapsed. Then our own universe would have
been destroyed. The sudden release of such a vast energy potential
would have caused a concussion which would literally warp our flat
space into the fourth-dimensional sub-space.

"Now that can't happen. We are draining off that infinite potential
and broadcasting it--flooding it--through sub-space to be received
everywhere there is a Delban receiving antenna. The power is limitless.
We Delbans will be the rulers of the universe just as the Tane Gods
were of old. There is no limit to our power!"

Bro-Doral's eyes blazed with a pure lust for power as he stared
exultantly at the green brilliance of the Tane Jewel. His mouth
was slack and he breathed heavily from the effort of his speech.
Selzi-Narfid, too, was tired. Wearily he rested against the support
rail of the balcony. The guards blinked their large pop-eyes from
fatigue, shuffling from one foot to another to promote circulation.
Most of them had placed their weapons in holsters as Bro-Doral talked.
That is, all except one. He still held his weapon loosely in his
fingers at his side. Slowly and gently Glayne poised, gathering his
strength.

"Isn't it beautiful, Glayne?" mused the Delban Overlord, staring into
the tiny radiant sun. "An artifact of the mightiest culture that ever
existed. Now we will carry on in their footsteps. We will be the
mightiest--"


                                 VIII

Then Glayne leaped. With one flailing fist he caught the Delban guard
on his bony jaw and with the other he snatched the cold-beam gun from
his limp fingers. Whirling, he played it among the stupefied guards.
Then old Graysen exploded into action, seizing Selzi-Narfid and hurling
him bodily at Bro-Doral who was in the act of bringing up his Cardy
gun. Three of the guards had collapsed and another was crumpling on his
knees under Glayne's cold-beam. The other two had crouched back in the
shadows of the entrance portal, trying to bring their weapons to bear
upon Glayne.

Graysen whirled and lunged at them, smashing one down with a single
blow. The last guard on his feet, surprised and dismayed by this attack
from the rear, fled to the portal and tried to dilate it. But he was
too late and sagged in a heap under Glayne's hand weapon.

Scooping up two of the Cardy guns which had fallen to the balcony
floor, Glayne shouted: "Pick up an energy gun, Graysen. Cut down the
power drain machinery."

Graysen reached for an energy gun in the holster of one of the
paralyzed guards. He never even saw Gort Bro-Doral scramble to his feet
and fire point blank. His head disappeared as the Delban's beam struck
full force. Glayne fired back wildly but he was off balance and missed.
Before he could collect himself to fire again, Bro-Doral had fled to
another stage and darted through the dilation.

Glayne whirled toward the Delbans. Selzi-Narfid had a broken neck and
was obviously dead. The guards were all unconscious and would remain so
for a long time.

Glayne turned back to the Jewel which cast its chill, gold light
steadily through the interstices of the surrounding girders. Calmly
he leveled the Cardy gun and fired at it. As if it were so much water,
the deadly little energy beam washed off the Tane Jewel and fused with
the beralloy supports. It was as he had expected. Given several hours,
the little hand weapon might have made an impression on the incredibly
tough beralloy but Glayne had no time to lose.

As he had seen before, the power drain machinery which hung in clusters
from the big beams and transmitted the energy through the heavy busbars
looked to be the most fragile. Glayne wondered what would happen if he
fired into them. There was only one way to find out. The muscles of his
jaw hardened as he depressed the firing stud on the Cardy.

Nothing happened. He let the beam of his energy gun play up and down
the clusters of power drains, fusing them into slag. Now the thin,
invisible rays of power which the drains extracted from the Jewel no
longer existed since they had no place to go. But nothing happened.

Then it occurred to him that nothing would happen in the Jewel Chamber
itself. It needed no power for lights--the Jewel provided all the light
needed. Heartened, Glayne blasted at every drain in reach, following
the balcony around the Chamber.

But even this method, he realized, would take too long. Gort Bro-Doral
would soon have squads of men hurrying into the Chamber after him.
Grimly he wished he had an energy bomb. With one of those he could
finish the job in a few seconds.

Suddenly he remembered an old Guardian trick. Hurriedly he began to
tinker with one of the Cardy guns. By jamming a couple of the safety
gadgets, it was possible to make the weapon fire out of phase. When the
trigger stud was depressed, its tiny miatron coils would build up an
unstable load in a couple of seconds, then explode. Quickly he fixed
the weapon to his satisfaction, then hurried on around the balcony to
find a suitable opening in the girders through which to hurl the ersatz
bomb.

Halfway around, he met two panic-stricken Delban technicians. The
instant they saw him they turned tail and ran back through the portal.
Obviously _something_ must be happening, Glayne thought with grim
satisfaction. Then he found a good spot, pressed the firing stud of
the doctored Cardy gun, then flung it with all his strength into the
remaining power drains. In an instant he had pivoted and lunged for the
port of the entrance stage behind him, feeling in the shadow for its
dilator stud.

It refused to open!

Obviously Glayne himself had sabotaged its power circuit. Now he was
trapped in the Chamber and the ersatz bomb was about to explode.
Tensely he crouched as far back in the recess of the port as he could
and waited. With a terrific roar the bomb exploded in the confined
Chamber, rupturing the membranes of his nose and crushing him violently
against the port. Parts of the devastated power drains were hurled
against the massive walls, then fell back to the Jewel. One of the
heavy busbars had collapsed, ripping festoons of cables from the top of
the Chamber which shorted violently against one another.

Dazed, Glayne pulled himself to his feet. Fortunately he had broken
no bones. But one of his ear drums was ruptured and his nose bled
unremittingly. He had lost his other Cardy. Hurriedly he felt about,
found it, and thrust it into the fold of his tattered jumper.

He turned back to the port and found that the concussion had dilated
it for him. Breathing heavily, he crawled through it into the inky
blackness of the passages. On all sides he heard the sound of running
footsteps. By touch he staggered into the blackness, realizing that he
must keep going uphill, away from the Jewel's attraction.

The exertion cleared his head a bit. He knew he was lost, but he hoped
to be able to find his way back to Selzi-Narfid's quarters. There he
would find Niala and be oriented with the rest of the discoid.

Figures bumped into him in the blackness, hurrying to the scene of
destruction. The Delbans were badly disorganized. Obviously they had
not been prepared to cope with such devastation wreaked on their sacred
Jewel. Not even to the extent of auxiliary power for lights, he
thought as he panted up the black passages.

       *       *       *       *       *

Even as he thought about it, the lights began to flicker weakly in
their fluorescent tubes, growing stronger with each passing second.
Startled, Glayne crouched back in the shadow of a recess in the wall.
That was Luck in all her perversity, he thought grimly. His hand sought
the butt of the blaster in his jumper. Fortunately the lights did not
wax as brightly as they had when the Jewel was still functioning, but
that did not offer much consolation. He would be recognized instantly
by the outline of his thick-chested body if he was seen in the corridor.

He noticed that fewer Delbans were passing. He decided to chance it.
Tightly grasping the gun in his jumper, he crept from his hiding place
and ran on the balls of his feet, dodging and ducking into shadows
every time one of the enemy passed. Once he was seen and pursued by
a squad of Delban guards. Breathlessly he ran at full tilt through a
cross-corridor, up a flight of high steps, and twisted into another of
the endless passages of the discoid.

The pull of the Jewel had become very slight. In fact it was much
slighter than it had been in Selzi-Narfid's suite. Glayne pushed on,
realizing that he was hopelessly lost. His only chance now was to
find the mono-rail on which they had ridden from the landing dock
to the Tjadlinn commander's suite. It occurred to him that even if
he did find Niala, they might never escape Tjadlinn. And it was
absolutely imperative that he make contact with Garstow at Scone III.
The slightest delay on the part of the Stellar Guardian Admiral in
attacking the Karkara Station might give the Delbans the precious time
they needed to repair the damage he had effected.

There were two entrance stages, one on either side, in the corridor
through which he was hurrying. He tried one and found it was locked.
He was more fortunate with the other. It creaked open slowly when he
flipped the dilator stud. Tensely, hand on the Cardy gun in his jumper,
he crept through the port.

It was the landing dock!

Glayne's heart jumped with delight as he crouched back in a shadow and
examined the place. Not a hundred meters away was the launch which had
brought his party from the _Algol_. His eyes drank it in avidly and a
plan for escape formed rapidly in his mind. A message craft of some
sort was preparing to leave, he saw. As soon as the inner lock door
closed behind it, he would smash the launch through it and the air
pressure would fling him out of the discoid. How very simple!

Then the impact of the realization that he would have to leave Niala
Chodred behind struck him. He was stunned by its very violence.

Leave Niala? Abandon her to Gort Bro-Doral and his sadistic vengeance
for the sabotage Glayne himself had performed? No! That was out of the
question. But what of the Terran Combine? What did the life of Citizen
Niala Chodred mean against the lives of the trillions who made up that
Combine to which she had sworn allegiance? Viewed in that light, it
was obvious that the life of one person was a cheap price to pay for
security of the Combine against the Tane Jewel.

Glayne crouched in the shadow and buried his face in his hands. In
an agony of indecision he prodded his weary mind to discover an
alternative to the horrible dilemma. But he could find none. He would
have to decide between Niala, the laughing, green-eyed Niala, and the
ideal of human progress which he had sworn the Guardian Oath to protect.

Dully he realized that the power of the abstract was too strong. He
would forsake Niala. The pain redoubled itself as he made his decision
but he set his face in a granite-mask against it. Unfortunately it was
not so easy to quell the agony that burned within him.

Grimly he stood up. He saw that the time had come for action. The
message craft was slowly jetting down the cinder blastway toward the
lock door. Glayne tensed for an instant, then raced for the launch,
covering ten meters at a stride in the light gravity. Three Delban
mechanics caught sight of him as he rounded the stubby fins and leaped
for the lock. In mid-stride he whipped out his Cardy gun and brought
them down in charred heaps.

A guard squad saw him and fired. Their beams sang dangerously close,
smashing into the beralloy side of the launch. They crunched down the
blastway in pursuit as Glayne jumped through the open lock, slammed it
shut, and darted to the controls. The atomic driver engine coughed and
surged into life. He let it scream up beyond audibility, then fed power
to the jets. The blast washed over the guards who were closest to the
launch and the others fell back hastily before its searing heat.

The inner lock of the entrance port had slid shut behind the message
craft. It was now or never, Glayne realized. He opened the atomic
driver wide and the stubby launch shuddered for an instant, then lunged
for the lock. The sudden thrust created constricting hands about
Glayne's chest and he fought precariously on the edge of blacking out.
For a brief instant Glayne was aware of the huge outer doors swinging
shut before him--and then the air pressure struck them and flung the
launch bodily through the narrow space left between them.

The launch tumbled crazily end-over-end until Glayne straightened it
out and oriented himself with Tjadlinn and Jorger Sun. He had just
sighted the tiny gleaming speck of the _Algol_ a dozen kilometers
distant when something struck the launch a terrific blow. Almost
instantly the tell-tales indicated air was escaping. Dismayed, Glayne
shot a glance over his shoulder at the receding discoid. He discovered
that they were firing at him with the secondary Kellander batteries,
using auxiliaries to power the miatrons. Feverishly he changed course,
zig-zagging wildly away from the discoid.

Due to over confidence, the Delbans had not destroyed the _Algol_
immediately. They preferred to play cat and mouse. And now, with the
titanic energies of the Jewel no longer available to them, they could
not destroy the _Algol_.

The Kellander energy beams slashed dangerously close to the fleeing
launch. Not in salvos but by ones and twos. That meant that their
fire control was badly disorganized--and it was that fact which saved
Glayne. Harbin had raised the _Algol's_ anti-shield when the Delbans
had commenced firing but he had not turned tail as Glayne had ordered,
realizing that the launch was fleeing in his direction.

Glayne flipped the stud of the shield-nullifier that was matched to the
frequency of the _Algol's_ anti-shield and darted the launch through
it, braking with eye-searing blasts of the forward jets as the huge
Reception Deck locks yawned open. With a heavy lurch, his battered
craft came to rest inside the lip of the gaping outer doors.


                                  IX

The _Algol's_ officers formed a silent group beneath the huge glassene
dome of the navigation bridge. They looked expectantly at Glayne as the
elevator port dilated and he approached them, weary and unshaven, his
face covered with blood.

Ignoring their unspoken questions, Glayne said brusquely, glancing at
the navigation chrono, "Lieutenant Harbin: Compute an orbit for Scone
III. Get the ship under way immediately ... drop into sub-space at
three ten to the seventh kilos from Jorger Sun. Thrust--eight G's."

He was about to turn on his heel when Harbin's hesitant voice stopped
him.

"Sir ... what ... what about Commander Graysen and the others?"

Glayne stared at the youngster bleakly. "Graysen is dead," he said with
a flat voice. "So is Ganser. And I presume that our escort has been
executed."

Harbin's youthful jaw tightened. "And Lieutenant Chodred?"

The lines about Glayne's mouth deepened. He let his gaze travel over
Harbin's troubled face and the impassive faces of the rest of the
ship's officers. He saw accusation in their eyes along with resentment
and veiled hostility. He knew what they were thinking. Why should he be
the only one to return. Why had he abandoned the others? And now they
wanted to know what had happened to the girl. So he told them.

"She is still alive." Bitterly he wondered why Fate had designated her
to be the only one left to face Gort Bro-Doral's vengeance. He looked
up again at the silent cluster of officers. "If your curiosity is
satisfied, gentlemen, suppose we get on with the war?"

"If Tjadlinn is without Jewel power," persisted Harbin stubbornly, "why
can't we attack? We might be able to rescue Lieutenant Chodred. It's
the least we could do--"

"Follow my orders!" Glayne cut in savagely. He turned on his heel and
mounted to his shock seat in the Captain's Station. Yes, he thought
bitterly, they could attack Tjadlinn, incur heavy damage on the
discoid--perhaps even accomplish a miraculous rescue of Niala. But
weighed against that was the possibility that the _Algol_ might be
heavily damaged or destroyed by the highly potent secondary Kellanders
of the discoid. Unless he got through to Garstow, the conservative
Grand Admiral of the Stellar Guardians was likely to delay his attack
on Karkara--and such a delay would be suicidal.

Gradually a floor began to build under his feet and the _Algol_ got
under way. As the thrust increased, the discoid began to shrink
in the distance. Glayne stared at its image grimly in the battle
screen. He didn't say farewell because he knew he would be back. He
rubbed his bristly cheek. He saw success now. He felt it on the tips
of his clutching fingers. But something else was beyond his grasp
now--something that made success dry and unpalatable. He covered his
eyes with his hand as the thought stabbed him: The laughing, green-eyed
Niala....

       *       *       *       *       *

The Stellar Guardian fleet lay motionless across forty thousand
kilometers of space when the _Algol_ reached the rendezvous at Scone
III. Admiral Garstow's anxious face formed rapidly in the featureless
grey surface of Glayne's ship-to-ship communicator screen.

"Give me a fast, verbal report on the Jewel, Glayne," ordered the
Admiral.

The Guardian Captain complied, rapidly sketching the main details of
his sabotage and providing a rough outline of the Delban defense of
the discoid.

When he finished, Garstow nodded thoughtfully. "Do you think it
advisable to risk an immediate attack on the discoid on the chance that
we can knock it out before they repair the power drains?"

Glayne frowned, then said, "No. It's too long a chance. They will mass
their fleet at Tjadlinn immediately. Under normal circumstances we
could lick them, but if they repair that Jewel faster than I expect,
then we'll be sitting ducks."

Garstow nodded again. "Lieutenant Brodis informed me of the plan you
had in mind of attacking the Karkara Fleet Station on Scone III and
thereby acquiring the Jewel power-receiving antennae. On the whole, I
think that is the shrewder move. Since you've managed this show up to
now, Captain, I think you might as well organize the attack."

"Thank you, sir," Glayne replied. "I'll take my own cruiser division in
first to clear away what little resistance they'll put up. That will
be the simplest part about it. The real difficulty will come when we
install the antennae. As Brodis probably told you, we were unable to
get any technical information from General Ganser."

Garstow rubbed his fleshy nose thoughtfully, then said, "It's in your
hands, Captain." Then he cut out.

Rapidly Glayne organized the attack, placing his own cruiser division
at the point of the spearhead. Smoothly the Stellar Guardian striking
force flashed down on Scone III. As Glayne had anticipated, their
sudden assault was little more than an armed landing. The Delbans were
caught completely off guard. They put up a fanatical resistance with
the auxiliary-powered Kellander secondary batteries, but the superior
weight of Glayne's miatron blasters soon crushed every last shred of
opposition.

As soon as the _Algol_ had jetted down on the immense space-port of
the Karkara Fleet Station, a group of technicians in addition to the
landing party raced off to confiscate an antennae unit for the big
ship. Glayne set up an operations unit in the glassene dome of the
_Algol_ to assign landing patterns to the other Guardian fleet units.
The heaviest Cluster and Galactic class warships he assigned to fast
orbits about Scone to defend the ships which had already landed.

After he saw that landing operations were proceeding smoothly he
descended to the engine room of the _Algol_ to see how the installation
of the antenna was progressing. Massive cables snaked across the deck
in confusions, waiting to be hooked into the heavy buses which the
technicians were jockeying into place. Outside on the hull, gangs
of men were welding in the mesh antenna. Fuming, he looked at his
wrist-chrono repeatedly.

"How much longer?" he asked Harbin impatiently.

"Thirty minutes at the most, sir," replied Harbin stiffly, refusing to
meet Glayne's eyes.

Glayne rubbed his bristly cheek thoughtfully as he turned away. The
young officer was determined to give him the silent treatment along
with the rest of the officers in his crew. Word would spread; soon the
whole fleet would hear of his cowardly negligence. He smiled thinly as
he made his way back up to the navigation bridge. He had seen it happen
before. There were just two ways to escape it. One was retirement. The
other involved a Cardy gun placed at the temple....

The red light of his personal communicator was blinking intermittently
when he regained the bridge. It was Garstow.

"Glayne!" he barked abruptly, "Bardled is on his way in with the fleet
of Imperial Terra. And a dozen other Sectors have massed their fleets
and are on the way, too."

"Excellent," said Glayne. "We're working faster now. We've put the
Delban technicians to work and repaired the damage to their assembly
lines. We ought to be able to handle a thousand ships an hour. How long
before Bardled will arrive?"

"Four hours ... maybe six."

"I'm lifting in a few minutes," Glayne said. "When Bardled arrives,
install the units in his heavy ships first. Those tubs will smash the
Tjadlinn anti-shield if anything will."

Rapidly Glayne went on to sketch his plan of attack. When he finished,
Garstow nodded ponderously. "Then we will sub-space as soon as we pick
up the power broadcast. A sound strategy, Captain. Good luck!" His
face faded from the screen.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first of the big Cluster class battleships were easing down on vast
fingers of flame when Harbin reported that the work of installation
was complete. In quick succession the other cruisers of his division
reported readiness and he gave the command to blast off.

The _Algol_ was almost two hundred million kilos below Scone System's
plane of ecliptic when the hastily installed antenna unit began to
pick up the first surges of power from the Tane Jewel. Cautiously the
_Algol's_ pilot experimented with it, accustoming himself to unlimited
power at his finger tips. One by one, the ship's atomic drivers fell
silent as the pilot gained confidence.

"Raise the anti-shield, Lieutenant Harbin," Glayne said crisply over
his inter-ship phone. "We'll sub-space right now."

Harbin's image stared at him incredulously from the communicator screen
for an instant but he fought down the words that trembled on his lips.

"Aye, sir," he snapped.

Glayne was grimly amused at his anxiety but said nothing to relieve it.
They were dangerously close to mass, he knew, but if Gort Bro-Doral
could blast into sub-space directly from Sterle II with a shield
supported by Jewel power, then he ought to be able to get away with it
at two hundred million kilos from mass.

Briefly Glayne communicated his intent to the commanders of the thirty
other cruisers in his division and their anti-shields began to build.
At his curt command they dropped smoothly into sub-space, their shield
generators heating up slightly as the sudden strain hit them.

They plunged on through sub-space, building up to incredible velocities
in that nether dimension where such commonplace things as mass and
light did not exist. Glayne's mind worked rapidly, analyzing his plan
of battle for any defects. Obviously the enemy would mass his fleet
at the all-important Tjadlinn. If his calculations were correct, his
cruiser division would pop into normal space right among them. If they
struck fast enough, they could disorganize the Delbans sufficiently for
Garstow and Bardled to get in among them with the heavy units of their
fleets. And that, he knew, would be the end of the Delban Grand Fleet.

The discoid was another matter. Paradoxically, it contained within it
the very source of the power which they would use to destroy it. The
only possible way the Delbans could deprive them of the Jewel power
would be to turn off the non-directional broadcast entirely. That,
however, would leave them open to an attack by the regular miatron
batteries of the heavy Guardian and Terran battleships. They could
not possibly hope to beat off such an attack with their Kellander
secondaries. Hence, Glayne reasoned, they would keep up the power
broadcast at all costs.

Satisfied with his plan, Glayne let his mind relax and drift where it
wanted. Abruptly it turned to thoughts of Niala Chodred and he winced
at the pain which filled him. Grimly, he realized that if the silent
treatment by his fellow officers failed to ruin him, the bitter acid of
remorse which burned his soul would certainly accomplish the job.


                                   X

One instant the fleet of the Delban Empire was assembling about the
vital Tjadlinn discoid in an orderly fashion. An instant later all hell
broke loose amid its massed ranks.

Glayne's cruiser division popped out of sub-space at two hundred
kilometers per second and flailed through the Delbans like a giant
scythe. His eyes glued to the small battle screen in front of him,
Glayne clipped off rapid commands over the ship-to-ship communicator
that kept him in touch with the rest of his group.

Three Delban warships--one a battle-ship--had been caught with their
shields down and were now exploding enthusiastically in nova-fashion. A
dozen others had been heavily damaged by the slashing miatron beams as
they vainly sought to lift their shields.

The _Algol_ screamed in protest as the pilot flung her around to bore
in again. Her armored hide seemed to crawl in squealing agony at the
twenty G turn. Glayne panted, on the verge of blacking out. Dimly he
glimpsed the strained features of the pilot wracked with spasms of
coughing that flung lobs of blood and lung tissue against the terraced
banks of instruments at his side....

Then they were among the Delbans again, slashing right and left with
Kellander miatron beams. This time the Delbans were ready for them and
replied with a vengeance. Torrents of energy smashed at the _Algol's_
shield which shuddered like a live thing under the impact. Behind
Glayne a knot of sweating gunnery officers rattled off firing data to
waiting Kellander crews before the mammoth battle screen. Somewhere
in the bowels of the ship the accumulators were screaming as they fed
the Jewel energies from the antenna to the smoking banks of shield
generators and the ravenous Kellander condensers. But dominating the
ear-splitting crescendo of the _Algol_ in full fighting stride was the
continuous, ravening thunder of Kellander projectors as they flung
their blasts at the Delban warships.

Glayne saw that his division had scattered widely--but, at the same
time, the disorganization of the Delbans was even more evident. Unaware
that the sudden attack was a feint to draw them away from Tjadlinn, a
dozen Delban fleet divisions abandoned the Jewel to join the fray.

As the Guardian Captain scanned the screen, he saw that the tide was
fast running in favor of the Delbans. The _Anza_ was finished for the
day. A flotilla of swift Delban destroyers had darted in with mines and
torpedoes, one of which had gotten through her shield and exploded with
a devastating energy concussion against her stern, sheering off plates
and jet tubes by it force. The _Altor_ and _Astrid_ were cornered by
a dozen Delban Galactics and Clusters and their shields coruscated
in brilliant hues as they trembled on the point of collapse. A third
Guardian ship, the _Aesir_, blasted in to offer aid and even as Glayne
watched, hurled her energies in a concerted salvo at a point just
below the jets of one of the Delban Clusters. Its shield coruscated
brilliantly, tottered, and suddenly it was strewing its guts,
nova-fashion. Almost immediately the _Aesir_ followed her example as a
salvo of Galactic beams struck her amidships, rupturing her shield. A
torpedo ripped into the bridge of the _Astrid_ and she exploded in an
eye-searing nova. The _Altor_ managed to limp away in the confusion,
her beralloy hide mangled and torn from a near miss.

The _Algol_ herself was in trouble. Two Delban Stellars were hurling
torrents of energy at her shield, making it coruscate in a blaze of
overloaded power foci. A pack of destroyers was circling hungrily,
looking for a chance to dart in and plant their seeds of destruction.
The pilot maneuvered desperately, but the overloaded power lines could
not shunt sufficient power through the drivers to pull them out of
their difficulty.

Glayne swore, wondering where the rest of the fleet was. It couldn't
go on much longer. The _Akkad_ had novaed; the _Ashlar_ and _Asgard_
had disappeared without leaving a trace. Only six of his original
thirty were in fighting shape--and even as he watched he had to revise
it to five. The _Atlas_, surrounded by a dozen enemies, exploded in
nova-fashion as her shield collapsed.

And then the void was suddenly full of great warships bearing the
Guardian and Terran insignia, appearing magically in the midst of the
Delbans. What had appeared to be triumph suddenly turned into a rout
for the Delbans. Badly disorganized, they attempted to flee back to the
safety of the mighty Kellander projectors of Tjadlinn.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Glayne's annihilated cruiser division had done its work well; the
Delbans, drawn too far from the discoid, were cut off by the fleets
that opposed them. They fought desperately and fanatically, but
there was only one possible outcome. One after another they exploded
nova-fashion as the massed salvos of the tremendous Terran and Guardian
battle ships swept aside their shields and touched destructive fingers
to their beralloy sides.

Glayne's ship-to-ship suddenly crackled into life and Garstow's heavy
face appeared on the screen. "My boy," he boomed, "I'm proud of you.
Excellent work! We've bagged them all at almost no cost. Bardled tells
me he didn't lose a ship."

Glayne gazed stupidly at him for a moment before he could adjust
himself to the idea of victory. Then he said quietly: "I have five
ships left out of a command of thirty."

"Oh! ... that's too bad," mumbled Garstow, his broad face becoming
serious. "What I mean to say is--"

"The chaplain will say what needs to be said," Glayne cut in with
unnecessary bitterness. "If you still want me to run this show, then I
submit that we attack Tjadlinn without delay."

Admiral Garstow nodded, his face like a deflated balloon.

Quickly Glayne outlined his plan for the assault on the discoid
itself. The battle would be fought between the Kellander accumulator
and condenser capacity of the massed fleets and the total generator
capacity of the mighty anti-shield which the Delbans would raise from
the discoid. If the Delban shield capacity was less than the massed
strength of the fleet, then the discoid would be destroyed. But if the
Delbans held them off, they would try something else.

It took several hours to assemble the scattered and highly numerous
Terran and Guardian warships into a closely-integrated formation.
Matters were not helped by the appearance of dozens of warships from
the fleets of other Sectors. They roamed about searching for enemy
stragglers, but succeeded only in getting in the way. Finally, however,
Glayne got them organized and the enormous fleet moved ponderously on
Tjadlinn.

The Delbans waited behind their featureless grey shield, not firing
a single Kellander blast at the advancing fleet. When it reached to
within fifty kilometers of the discoid, Glayne gave the order to
commence fire.

In the center of the huge discoid the Jewel, the Second Universe of
the Elder Tane, blazed with a chill, golden luminescence. It did not
waver a fraction as the tremendous energy demands struck it. The power
drains fed voraciously of its infinite energies and flooded them into
sub-space. The cumbersome mesh antennae on the hulls of the numberless
ships in the massed fleet gulped it up and transmitted it to screaming
accumulators which in turn fed it to the ravenous Kellander condensers.
They, in turn, cast it through the miatron projectors at the shield of
Tjadlinn from whence it had emerged.

For minutes on end those titanic torrents of energy blasted at that
phenomenal shield. But it held. The inconceivable energies could not
crack it. Not even when every single accumulator and condenser in the
massed fleets of the Terran Combine labored at peak capacity did the
shield so much as tremble. Not even to the extent of a tiny spider web
of coruscation along the power foci.

Glayne barked a command to cease fire. He saw that the hail of
torpedoes and mines which they had strewn had penetrated the shield.
But they had been detonated by roving beams from the Tjadlinn
secondaries before they could strike the surface of the discoid. If
they could get through that mighty barrier, Glayne reasoned, then so
could the _Algol_. He peered into the battle screen, attempting to
locate the mammoth landing dock of the discoid through its shimmering
grey shield.

He made his decision. Garstow's face came to life on his communicator
screen. Briefly he communicated his intention to the Guardian leader.
When he had finished, Garstow nodded soberly and mumbled farewell.

When he learned that the _Algol's_ Kellander batteries had been rigged
to fire by remote control from the pilot's seat, Glayne contacted
Harbin.

"Abandon ship!" he ordered laconically when the youngster's face filled
the screen.

"Wha--what?" blurted Harbin incredulously.

"I said," Glayne repeated curtly, "abandon ship. Make haste!"

"Aye, sir," said Harbin. His face still mirrored astonishment as it
faded from the screen.


                                  XI

Glayne sat alone in the pilot's massive shock seat of the _Algol_. The
instruments rose about him on all sides in terraced banks with the
battle screen directly in front of his eyes. Tentatively he reached for
the firing studs, accustoming his fingers to their shape. When he saw
that the last of the _Algol's_ lifeboats had been picked up he realized
that the time had come.

He transferred his gaze to the discoid that was vague and indistinct
beneath its anti-energy shield. Fastening his eyes to the armored outer
lock doors of the landing dock, he gently fed power to the drivers. The
_Algol_ shuddered and gradually picked up speed. Glayne dropped the
anti-shield, realizing that he would never get through the barrier with
the energized shield functioning. But once he was through, it would
have to go up quickly or his ship would be shattered by the roving
secondaries. Hand hovering tensely over the shield control, he guided
the ship toward the landing dock.

His speed increased; at twenty kilometers he was streaking
toward the discoid in a free fall, all energy sources quiet.
Fifteen--ten--five--and the _Algol_ was boring through the energy
barrier, stormed and buffeted as it sought to impede the passage of
the individual circuits. Suddenly she emerged _inside_ the shield and
Tjadlinn was rushing upwards.

Like lightning Glayne's fingers stabbed at the shield control and fed
power to the drivers. He braked the ship crazily to avoid the lashing
secondary beams that reached hungrily for him. Once ... twice--and yet
a third time the Kellander beams found the cruiser and slashed through
her half-formed shield, dealing terrific blows to the plummeting ship.

Then the massive beralloy doors of the landing stage were expanding
hugely in his screen and he braked with all the power he could shunt
into the straining drivers. Somehow his clutching fingers found the
Kellander firing studs and he lashed out repeatedly against the outer
lock. It whitened, ran into slag, crusted, and flared again and again
as the ravening bolts struck it. Desperately Glayne fought to prevent
blackness encroaching on the corners of his vision.

Suddenly a rending, thundering roar filled the _Algol_ and she was
crashing headlong through the weakened beralloy doors of the landing
dock. But even above that deafening roar, Glayne could hear the scream
of twisted and tortured metal. Then the big ship stopped moving and all
was quiet except for the shriek of air escaping through the crevices
around her mangled hull.

Groggily, Glayne shook his head in an effort to shake off the black-out
which had engulfed his vision. In spite of his circulation exercises he
couldn't see anything. Then a glimmering of the answer occurred to him
and with wild surmise he experimentally flicked the firing stud of the
ship's Kellanders.

Nothing happened.

Then Glayne understood. Every bit of the ship's power was cut off,
including the lights and the battle screen. Obviously the Jewel power
was cut off. Evidently the impact of the _Algol's_ crash had jarred the
delicate power drains so that Tjadlinn was once again without power.
But he'd have to make sure.

Heartened, he rose and took a space suit from the locker, checking
to see if its light torch was operating. As he turned away, a vague,
ridiculous hope struck him. He took a second suit from the locker.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twisted and buckled beralloy plates had sheered long, jagged gashes in
the equally tough armor of the cruiser, Glayne saw, as he clambered
from the emergency lock. A little air still sighed through the huge
rent which the cruiser had smashed in the skin of the discoid. The
gigantic landing dock was dwarfed by the three hundred meter bulk of
the cruiser. Small Delban craft had been flung violently on either side
and now littered the walls with their battered bodies. One or two of
the Delban technicians had been caught by the crash and were either
smeared thinly along the blastway or turned inside out as their bodies
exploded from lack of air pressure.

Hurriedly Glayne flashed his torch about, trying to find the mono-car
which his party had used to get to Selzi-Narfid's quarters. The car
itself was gone but he found the gleaming mono-rail and followed it at
a rapid trot. Fortunately the passage was well-equipped with automatic
air-locks, one of which had whipped in place when the air pressure
dropped suddenly. When he came to the first of these, he found that the
dilator was without power. He fumed at the wasted time as he burned
around the lock with his torch and triggered the mechanism with his
finger.

After he closed it behind him, Glayne picked up his jogging pace down
the mono-rail passage. He felt a kind of grim, ruthless hatred when
he thought of Bro-Doral. He hoped wistfully that he would find the
sneering sadist before Garstow's energy beams ripped the discoid to
pieces.

He wondered what had happened to Niala Chodred. During the battle he
had consciously held his thoughts away from her and the dull ache of
her memory. A chill loathing spread through him as he thought of the
Vibra-Death. He knew of the agonies of that nerve torture; it produced
not one slow death but thousands. More passionately than ever he longed
to find the Bro.

Suddenly Glayne felt the floor of the discoid tremble under his feet.
At first he ignored it, but it grew persistently stronger and he
realized that the fleet was again hurling its energy beams at the
discoid--but this time they were penetrating because there was no
shield to stop them. He quickened his pace, rounded a long curve, and
found that he had reached his goal.

He vaulted the high curbing and pounded down the tapestried corridor to
the wide entrance stage. The dilator stud refused to operate, so Glayne
burned into the lock to operate the stud. He discovered that the port
itself was locked and a sudden unreasoning hope blazed up in him. With
rapid movements he burned the lock out altogether and threw his weight
against the door. With a wheeze it dilated and he staggered into the
luxurious apartment, stumbling from the force of his own momentum.

He was scrambling to his feet when something hit him. It was soft with
rounded contours which he perceived even through the unsympathetic
thickness of his spacesuit. And it had red hair and green eyes.

It was Niala.

"Glayne ... oh, Glayne," she murmured, clinging tightly to him.

"But ... but you're not hurt," he stammered, his mind striving to
adjust to the realization of a hope which it had long rejected.

"I thought they had killed you," she sobbed happily. "But you got away."

"Yes, he did," remarked a third voice, familiar and hated. "It was
unfortunate."

Glayne whirled. Gort Bro-Doral stood inside the entrance stage, a black
Cardy gun in his hand.

"Without you in the audience, Captain, I didn't see much point in
amusing myself with the girl. But now that you have returned, Glayne--"

The big Guardian crouched to spring at the Delban, gathering his legs
under him.

"I shouldn't do that, Captain," Bro-Doral observed sharply, waving the
Cardy menacingly. "Life is too sweet to throw it away so rashly, isn't
it? Besides, such refined methods require time and I fear your leader,
Admiral Garstow, doesn't propose to give us that commodity."

It was true, Glayne realized. The energy beams of the assaulting fleets
were smashing tremendous blows at the discoid so that it shuddered
violently. The shocks increased in strength even as he turned his
attention to them. Somewhere deep in Tjadlinn air was escaping with a
screaming whistle where the skin was ruptured.

"You seem to have no idea how hideous Death is, Glayne," said the
Delban, approaching them slowly. "Out here on the periphery of the
galaxy we like to make some sort of a ceremony of his coming--you see,
he is always hovering around us." The Delban produced his explosive,
nasal snicker. "Death is a fascinating subject; I have often wondered
why you people in the Main Galaxy ignore him. Ever present, you know.
And always waiting for you to step into his dark embrace."

Glayne watched Bro-Doral narrowly. He was but a couple of meters
away. As the blows of the Kellander beams smashing into the discoid
increased, he became more preoccupied with his subject and his grip on
the Cardy grew lax. Glayne's hand tightened imperceptibly on the spare
spacesuit.

"--out here on the Edge," Bro-Doral was saying, "Life is considered
only a prelude to Death. Personally--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Glayne lunged, flinging the extra spacesuit to one side. Bro-Doral
alerted instantaneously, but his Cardy wavered for a fraction of an
instant toward the empty space suit. Before he could recover his
mistake Glayne's flying body had struck him. The two went down together
in a thrashing tangle. Glayne's movements were hampered by the bulky
spacesuit and he felt his desperate grip on the Delban slipping. Out of
the corner of his eye he saw Bro-Doral extending his long fingers for
the Cardy which he had dropped. Frantically he sought to restrain the
Delban's long arm, missed, and saw the Delban slither from his grasp
and reach for the gun.

Glayne scrambled to his feet just in time to see Niala snatch up the
weapon a split second ahead of Bro-Doral. For a brief instant the Ruler
of Ten Thousand Suns stared into the muzzle of Death. Then it wrapped
him in its dark embrace forever as Niala fired.

Glayne retrieved the spacesuit and hurriedly helped her don it.
The screaming whistle of escaping air formed a mad symphony with
the rumbling crashes of corridors and whole levels caving in upon
themselves. They raced from the apartment, through the tapestried
corridor to the mono-rail which twisted like a live thing under the
impact of the blasting energy beams. Jolt after jolt shook the discoid
as torpedoes and mines exploded with devastating energy concussions
deep within its entrails.

It was uphill all the way as the tremendous mass of the Tane Jewel
dragged at their flagging steps. Niala fell a half a dozen times from
the smashing shocks that shook the discoid. Glayne helped her to her
feet, only to be thrown down himself the next instant by the concussion
of an energy torpedo. Huge seams opened in the tough beralloy sides of
the mono-rail passage as the mammoth support beams fractured.

Panting, they finally reached the point where the air-lock had fallen
in place automatically. Glayne pushed at the port, expecting it to
dilate. It didn't move a fraction of a centimeter. A rapid examination
showed that it was sprung. Feverishly he felt for his torch to cut it
down.

But it was gone!

He suddenly felt sick, realizing that he had lost it in the struggle
with Bro-Doral. Now he would never be able to find it again. They were
trapped. Waves of defeat swept over him as he crouched in the darkness.

Suddenly he heard a new sound in the mad cacaphony of destruction that
raged about them. It was the tortured scream of rending, snapping
beralloy. And along with it came the sensation of increased weight.

The Tane Jewel!

The huge beams which had anchored it in place had evidently collapsed
under the impact of the assault and now the Jewel was falling freely
through space, crashing through everything that stood in its path. And
it was falling toward them!

Glayne's weight grew unbearable as it approached. Vaguely he could make
out its steady gold brilliance behind him in the passage. Grimly he
clung to a projection in the wall with one arm and hung onto Niala with
the other.

Then the miraculous happened.

The air-lock door which had been sprung now dilated under its own
tremendous weight and the air pressure which remained in the passage
flung Glayne and Niala through the lock.

Summoning the last reserves of his diminishing strength, Glayne put his
arm around her body and half-supported her, half-dragged her up the few
remaining steps of the mono-rail passage to the landing dock. Forty
meters separated him from the emergency lock of the _Algol_. Thirty
meters. His straining muscles groaned in anguish. Twenty meters. Niala
was unconscious and her slight form was an unbearable weight to him as
he dragged her with painfully slow steps. Ten.... Five ... he reached
the lock.

[Illustration: _The battle raged on across the stars!_]

He heaved her bodily into the lock and clambered in himself. Then
through the inner door. Across to the elevator. His muscles were a
symphony of agony. Slowly, slowly the elevator climbed. The discoid
was splitting and breaking up around the _Algol_--or was it wedging
the cruiser more firmly than ever in the vise grip of the beralloy
outer portals? The elevator door quivered for a moment, then dilated
in a series of little shudders. Ever so slowly Glayne crawled across
the bridge deck, dragging the girl. A shock seat ... a surette of
verchromynal into the blue vein inside her elbow.

The crescendo of destruction reached new heights. The Tane Jewel was
following him, splashing its insidious yellow radiance through the
glassene window of the navigation bridge. It dogged his footsteps ...
closer ... closer. The pilot's seat. The surette. Blackness encroached
upon his vision. Dimly he was aware of his arm; it moved
instinctively ... slowly ... slowly. The regular driver atomics began
to shriek. His arm made another movement, flicking jet studs. Power
suddenly sang in the forward jet chambers and ejected itself in a
great, mushrooming flame. The _Algol_ lurched backwards ... another
lurch ... straining ... a third. And the _Algol_ was suddenly free.

The yawning pit of blackness closed its gaping maw on Glayne and he
slid down, down, down....

       *       *       *       *       *

It occurred to Glayne, when he woke up, that his quarters in the
_Algol_ had a changed appearance. He climbed from his acceleration
hammock and bounded to the shower.

"Terran Standard!" he snorted to himself. "What the hell is Harbin
doing puttering along like that?"

As he dried himself from the tingling shower he tried to put his finger
on the change that had come over his quarters. For one thing, he
couldn't find what he wanted. But an even worse defect was the absence
of his dust.

Flag officers in the Stellar Guardians were generally conceded some
slight idiosyncrasy through which they could assert their individuality
in a service where individuality was otherwise rigorously suppressed.
Glayne's own idiosyncrasy was dust. After five long years as a Dorleb
training-cadet without a speck of dust to his name, Glayne felt he had
earned his right to wallow in a bit of dust. But now it was all gone.
His quarters were spotless.

He had finished dressing when a cautious knock sounded on his entrance
portal; then it dilated before he could answer. Harbin's face appeared
in the opening.

"Oh! I'm sorry, sir. Didn't think you were awake yet," Harbin said
apologetically.

"Forget it," grunted Glayne. "Come in."

Harbin entered the room and fidgeted nervously for a moment. "Sir!" he
finally burst out, "I ... we're sorry about that unpleasantness. I want
to apologize on behalf of--"

Glayne snorted and cut him off with a wave of his arm. "What I want to
know," he said with deceptive calmness, "is, where the hell is my dust?"

Harbin grinned. "Lieutenant Chodred. I advised her against it--told her
it was one of your peculiarities. But she wouldn't listen."

"What 'she' is this?" inquired a new voice, pleasantly husky.

Glayne turned and saw Niala leaning in the entrance stage. "You know
damned well whom we are talking about," he said ominously. "Why did you
take away my dust?"

"Oh, is that all?" she laughed. It was a deliciously cool and tinkling
laugh. Harbin foresaw an imminent explosion. Being a discreet warrior
who longs to fight another day, he fled from the room.

But it never quite jelled. Glayne extended his arms to the laughing,
green-eyed Niala. But she stood her ground.

"No," she teased. "Not when you have a beard like that."

Glayne swore and reached for his depilatory. He was going to set a new
galactic speed record for shaving.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FLAME-JEWEL OF THE ANCIENTS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
