ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Rocketeers Have Shaggy Ears, by Keith
Bennett

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Rocketeers Have Shaggy Ears

Author: Keith Bennett

Release Date: March 10, 2021 [eBook #64772]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ROCKETEERS HAVE SHAGGY
EARS ***




                    THE ROCKETEERS HAVE SHAGGY EARS

                           By KEITH BENNETT

              Some day there will be a legend like this.
               Some day, from steamy Venus or arid Mars,
                the shaking, awe-struck words will come
              whispering back to us, building the picture
               of a glory so great that our throats will
             choke with pride--pride in the Men of Terra!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Planet Stories Spring 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The Commander's voice went droning on, but Hague's fatigued brain
registered it as mere sound with no words or meaning. He'd been dazed
since the crash. Like a cracked phonograph, his brain kept playing
back the ripping roar of jet chambers blowing out with a sickening
lurch that had thrown every man in the control room to the floor.
The lights had flickered out, and a sickening elevator glide began as
Patrol Rocket One smashed down through the Venusian rainforest roof,
and crashed in a clearing blasted by its own hurtling passage.

Hague blinked hard and tried to focus his brain on what hard-faced
Commander Devlin was saying, something about the Base and Odysseus,
the mother ship.

"We've five hundred miles before we'll be in their vicinity, and every
yard of it we walk. Hunting parties will shoot food animals. All water
is to be boiled and treated with ultra-violet by my section. The
photographers will march with the science section, which will continue
classifying and writing reports. No actual specimens will be taken. We
can't afford the weight."

To Hague, the other five men seated around the little charting table
appeared cool, confidently ready to march through five hundred, or a
thousand miles of dark, unexplored, steaming Hell that is Venusian
rainforest. Their faces tightset, icily calm, they nodded in turn as
the Commander looked at each one of them; but Hague wondered if his own
face wasn't betraying the fear lurking within him. Suddenly Commander
Devlin grinned, and pulled a brandy bottle from his pocket, uncorking
it as he spoke: "Well, Rocketeers, a short life and a merry one. I
never did give a damn for riding in these tin cans." The tension broke,
they were all smiling, and saying they'd walk into the base camp with
some kind of a Venusian female under each arm for the edification of
Officers' Mess.

Leaden doubt of his own untried abilities and nerve lay icy in Hague's
innards, and he left after one drink. The others streamed from the
brightly lighted hatch a moment later. The Commander made a short
speech to the entire party. Then Navigator Clark, a smiling, wiry
little man, marched out of the clearing with his advance guard. Their
voices muffled suddenly as they vanished down a forest corridor that
lay gloomy between giant tree holes.

Commander Devlin slapped Hague cheerfully on the shoulder as he moved
past; and the second section, spruce and trim in blue-black uniforms,
with silver piping, followed him. Crewmen Didrickson and Davis followed
with rifles and sagging bandoliers of explosive bullets crossing their
chests; and then Arndt, the lean craggy geologist, his arm in a sling,
and marching beside him was rotund, begoggled Gault, the botanist.
The little whippet tank clattered by next with Technician Whittaker
grinning down at Hague from the turret.

"It pains me somethin' awful to see you walkin' when I'm ridin',"
Whittaker piped over the whippet's clanking growl.

Hague grinned back, then pinched his nose between two fingers in the
ageless dumb show of disgust, pointed at the tank, and shook his head
sadly. The two carts the whippet towed swayed by, and the rest of the
column followed; Bachmann, the doctor and Sewell, his beefy crotchety
assistant. The two photographers staggered past under high-piled
equipment packs, and Hague wondered how long they would keep all of
it. Lenkranz, Johnston, Harker, Szachek, Hirooka, Ellis--each carried
a pack full of equipment. The rest filed by until finally Swenson, the
big Swede technician, passed and the clearing was empty.

Hague turned to look over his own party. In his mind's eye bobbed the
neatly typed "Equipment, march-order, light field artillery" lists he'd
memorized along with what seemed a thousand other neatly typed lists at
Gunnery School.

The list faded, and Hague watched his five-man gun-section lounge
against their rifles, leaning slightly forward to ease the heavy
webbing that supported their marching packs and the sectioned pneumatic
gun.

"All right," Hague said brusquely. He dredged his brain desperately
then for an encouraging speech, something that would show the crew he
liked them, something the Commander might say, but he couldn't think
of anything that sounded witty or rang with stirring words. He finally
muttered a disgusted curse at his own blank-headedness, and said
harshly, "All right, let's go."

The six men filed silently out of the clearing battered in the forest
by Patrol Rocket One, and into damp gloom between gargantuan trunks
that rose smoothly out of sight into darkness. Behind them a little
rat-like animal scurried into the deserted slot of blasted trees, its
beady black eyes studying curiously the silver ship that lay smashed
and half-buried in the forest floor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Base Commander Chapman shuffled hopelessly through the thick sheaf of
onion-skin papers, and sank back sighing. Ammunition reports, supply
reports, medical reports, strength reports, reconnaissance reports,
radio logs, radar logs, sonar logs, bulging dossiers of reports, files
full of them, were there; and elsewhere in the ship efficient clerks
were rapping out fresh, crisp battalions of new reports, neatly typed
in triplicate on onion-skin paper.

He stared across his crowded desk at the quiet executive officer.

"Yes, Blake, it's a good picture of local conditions, but it isn't
exploration. Until the Patrol Rocket gets in, we can send only this
local stuff, and it just isn't enough."

Blake shrugged.

"It's all we've got. We can send parties out on foot from the base
here, even if we do lose men, but the dope they'd get would still be on
a localized area."

The Commander left his desk, and stared through a viewport at the
plateau, and beyond that at the jungled belt fringing an endless
expanse of rainforest lying sullenly quiet under the roof of racing
grey clouds.

"The point is we've got to have more extensive material than this when
we fire our robot-courier back to earth. This wonderful mountain of
papers--what do they do, what do they tell? They describe beautifully
the physical condition of this Base and its complement. They describe
very well a ten mile area around the Base--but beyond that area they
tell nothing. It's wonderful as far as it goes, but it only goes ten
miles, and that isn't enough."

Blake eyed the snowy pile of papers abstractedly. Then he jumped
up nervously as another bundle shot into a receiving tray from the
pneumatic message tube. He began pacing the floor.

"Well, what can we do? Suppose we send the stuff we have here, get it
microfilmed and get it off--what then?"

The Commander swore bitterly, and turned to face his executive.

"What then?" he demanded savagely. "Are we going into that again? Why,
the minute every other branch of the services realize that we haven't
got any kind of thorough preliminary report on this section of Venus,
they'll start pounding the war drums. The battleship admirals and the
bayonet generals will get to work and stir up enough public opinion to
have the United States Rocket Service absorbed by other branches--the
old, old game of military politics."

Blake nodded jerkily. "Yes, I know. We'd get the leftovers after the
battleships had been built, or new infantry regiments activated, or
something else. Anyway we wouldn't get enough money to carry on rocket
research for space explorations."

"Exactly," the Commander cut in harshly. "These rockets would be
grounded on earth. The generals or admirals would swear that the
international situation demanded that they be kept there as weapons of
defense; and that would be the end of our work."

"We've got to send back a good, thorough report, something to prove
that the Rocket Service can do the job, and that it is worth the doing.
And, until the patrol rocket gets back, we can't do it."

"Okay, Commander," Blake called as he went through the steel passage
opening onto the mother ship's upper corridor, "I'll be holding the
Courier Rocket until we get word."

       *       *       *       *       *

Seven hours later it lightened a little, and day had come. Hague and
the Sergeant had pulled the early morning guard shift, and began
rolling the other four from their tiny individual tents.

Bormann staggered erect, yawned lustily, and swore that this was worse
than spring maneuvers in Carolina.

"Shake it," Brian snarled savagely. "That whistle will blow in a
minute."

When it did sound, they buckled each other into pack harness and swung
off smartly, but groaning and muttering as the mud dragged at their
heavy boots.

At midday, four hours later, there was no halt, and they marched
steadily forward through steaming veils of oppressive heat, eating
compressed ration as they walked. They splashed through a tiny creek
that was solidly slimed, and hurried ahead when crawling things
wriggled in the green mass. Perspiration ran in streams from each face
filing past on the trail, soaked through pack harness and packs; and
wiry Hurd began to complain that his pack straps had cut through his
shoulders as far as his navel. They stopped for a five minute break
at 1400, when Hurd stopped fussing with his back straps and signalled
for silence, though the other five had been too wrapped in their own
discomfort to be talking.

"Listen! Do you hear it, Lieutenant? Like a horn?" Hurd's wizened rat
face knotted in concentration. "Way off, like."

Hague listened blankly a moment, attempted an expression he fondly
hoped was at once intelligent and reassuring, then said, "I don't hear
anything. You may have taken too much fever dope, and it's causing a
ringing in your ears."

"Naw," with heavy disgust. "Listen! There it goes again!"

"I heard it." That was Sergeant Brian's voice, hard and incisive,
and Hague wished he sounded like that, or that he would have heard
the sound before his second in command. All of the six were hunched
forward, listening raptly, when the Lieutenant stood up.

"Yes, Hurd. Now I hear it."

The whistle blew then, and they moved forward. Hague noticed the
Sergeant had taken a post at the rear of the little file, and watched
their back trail warily as they marched.

"What do you think it was, sir?" Bucci inquired in the piping voice
that sounded strange coming from his deep chest.

"The Lord knows," Hague answered, and wondered how many times he'd be
using that phrase in the days to come. "Might have been some animal.
They hadn't found any traces of intelligent life when we left the Base
Camp."

       *       *       *       *       *

But in the days that followed there was a new air of expectancy in the
marchers, as if their suspicions had solidified into a waiting for
attack. They'd been moving forward for several days.

Hague saw the pack before any of his men did, and thanked his guiding
star that for once he had been a little more alert than his gun-section
members.

The canvas carrier had been set neatly against one of the buttressing
roots of a giant tree bole and, from the collecting bottles strapped in
efficient rows outside, Hague deduced that it belonged to Bernstein,
the entomologist. The gunnery officer halted and peered back into the
gloom off the trail, called Bernstein's name; and when there was no
reply moved cautiously into the hushed shadows with his carbine ready.
He sensed that Sergeant Brian was catfooting behind him.

Then he saw the ghostly white bundle suspended six feet above the
forest floor, and moved closer, calling Bernstein's name softly. The
dim bundle vibrated gently, and Hague saw that it hung from a giant
white lattice radiating wheel-like from the green gloom above. He
raised his hand to touch the cocoon thing, noted it was shaped like a
man well-wrapped in some woolly material; and on a sudden hunch pulled
his belt knife and cut the fibers from what would be the head.

It was Bernstein suspended there, his snug, silken shroud bobbing
gently in the dimness. His dark face was pallid in the gloom, sunken
and flaccid of feature, as though the juices had been sucked from his
corpse, leaving it a limp mummy.

The lattice's thick white strands vibrated--something moved across it
overhead, and Hague flashed his lightpak up into the darkness. Crouched
twenty feet above him, two giant legs delicately testing the strands
of its lattice like web, Hague saw the spider, its bulbous furred body
fully four feet across, the monster's myriad eyes glittering fire-like
in the glow of Hague's lightpak, as it gathered the great legs slightly
in the manner of a tarantula ready to leap.

[Illustration: _It gathered the great legs slightly ... ready to leap._]

Brian's sharp yell broke Hague from his frozen trance. He threw himself
down as Brian's rifle crashed, and the giant arachnid was bathed in a
blue-white flash of explosive light, its body tumbling down across the
web onto Hague where he lay in the mud. The officer's hoarse yells rang
insanely while he pulled himself clear of the dead spider-beast, but he
forced himself to quiet at the sound of the Sergeant's cool voice.

"All clear, Lieutenant. It's dead."

"Okay, Brian. I'll be all right now." Hague's voice shook, and he
cursed the weakness of his fear, forcing himself to walk calmly without
a glance over his shoulder until they were back on the trail. He led
the other four gunners back to the spider and Bernstein's body, as a
grim object lesson, warned them to leave the trail only in pairs. They
returned their weary footslogging pace down the muddy creek marked by
Clark's crew. When miles had sweated by at the same steady pace, Hague
could still feel in the men's stiff silence their horror of the thing
Brian had killed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hours, and then days, rolled past, drudging nightmares through which
they plowed in mud and steamy heat, with punctually once every sixteen
hours a breathtaking, pounding torrent of rain. Giant drops turned the
air into an aqueous mixture that was almost unbreathable, and smashed
against their faces until the skin was numb. When the rain stopped
abruptly the heat came back and water vapor rose steaming from the mud
they walked through; but always they walked, shoving one aching foot
ahead of the other through sucking black glue. Sometimes Bormann's
harmonica would wheedle reedy airs, and they would sing and talk for
a time, but mostly they swung forward in silence, faces drawn with
fatigue and pale in the forest half light. Hague looked down at his
hands, swollen, bloody with insect bites, and painfully stiff; and
wondered if he'd be able to bend them round his ration pan at the
evening halt.

Hague was somnambulating at the rear of his little column, listening
to an ardent account from Bormann of what his girl might expect when
he saw her again. Bucci, slowing occasionally to ease the pneumatic
gun's barrel assembly across his shoulder, chimed in with an ecstatic
description of his little Wilma. The two had been married just before
the Expedition blasted Venusward out of an Arizona desert. Crosse was
at the front end, and his voice came back nasally.

"Hey, Lieutenant, there's somebody sitting beside the trail."

"Okay. Halt." The Lieutenant swore tiredly and trotted up to Crosse's
side. "Where?"

"There. Against the big root."

Hague moved forward, carbine at ready, and knew without looking that
Sergeant Brian was at his shoulder, cool and self-sufficient as always.

"Who's there?" the officer croaked.

"It's me, Bachmann."

Hague motioned his party forward, and they gathered in a small circle
about the Doctor, seated calmly beside the trail, with his back against
a root flange.

"What's the matter, Doc? Did you want to see us?"

"No. Sewell seems to think you're all healthy. Too bad the main party
isn't as well off. Quite a bit of trouble with fever. And, Bernstein
gone of course."

Hague nodded, and remembered he'd reported Bernstein's death to the
Commander three nights before.

"How's the Commander?" he inquired.

The Doctor's cherubic face darkened. "Not good. He's not a young man,
and this heat and walking are wrecking his heart. And he won't ride the
tank."

"Well, let's go, Doc." It was Brian's voice, cutting like a knife into
Hague's consciousness. The Doctor looked tired, and drawn.

"Go ahead, lads. I'm just going to sit here for a while." He looked up
and smiled weakly at the astonished faces, but his eyes were bleakly
determined.

"This is as far as I go. Snake bite. We've no anti-venom that seems
to work. All they can do is to amputate, and we can't afford another
sick man." He pulled a nylon wrapper from one leg that sprawled at an
awkward angle beneath him. The bared flesh was black, swollen, and
had a gangrenous smell. Young Crosse turned away, and Hague heard his
retching.

"What did the Commander say?"

"He agreed this was best. I am going to die anyway."

"Will--will you be all right here? Don't you want us to wait with you?"

The Doctor's smile was weaker, and he mopped at the rivulets of
perspiration streaking his mud-spattered face.

"No. I have an X-lethal dosage and a hypodermic. I'll be fine here.
Sewell knows what to do." His round face contorted, "Now, for God's
sake, get on, and let me take that tablet. The pain is driving me
crazy."

Hague gave a curt order, and they got under way. A little further on
the trail, he turned to wave at Doctor Bachmann, but the little man was
already invisible in forest shadows.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tenth day after the crash of Patrol Rocket One, unofficially known
as the Ration Can, glimpses of skylight opened over the trail Clark's
crew were marking; and Hague and his men found themselves suddenly in
an opening where low, thick vines, and luxuriant, thick-leaved shrubs
struggled viciously for life. Balistierri, the zoologist, slight wisp
of a dark man always and almost a shadow now, stood wearily beside the
trail waiting as they drew up. Their shade-blinded eyes picked out
details in the open ground dimly. Hague groaned inwardly when he saw
that this was a mere slit in the forest, and the great trees loomed
again a hundred yards ahead. Balistierri seized Hague by the shoulder
and pointed into the thick mat of green, smiling.

"Watch, all of you."

He blew a shrill blast on his whistle and waited, while Hague's gunners
wondered and watched. There was a wild, silvery call, a threshing
of wings, and two huge birds rose into the gold tinted air. They
flapped up, locked their wings, and glided, soared, and wheeled over
the earth-stained knot of men--two great white birds, with crests of
fire-gold, plumage snowy save where it was dusted with rosy overtones.
Their call was bell-like as they floated across the clearing in a
golden haze of sunlight filtered through clouds.

"They're--they're like angels." It was Bormann, the tough young
sentimentalist.

"You've named them, soldier," Balistierri grinned. "I've been trying
for a name; and that's the best I've heard. Bormann's angels they'll
be. In Latin, of course."

Unfolding vistas of eternal zoological glory left Bormann speechless
and red-faced. Sergeant Brian broke in.

"I guess they would have made those horn sounds. Right, Lieutenant?"
His voice, dry and a little patronizing, suggested that this was a poor
waste of valuable marching time.

"I wouldn't know, Sergeant," Hague answered, trying to keep dislike out
of his voice, but the momentary thrill was broken and, with Balistierri
beside him, Gunnery Officer Hague struck out on the trail that had been
blasted and hacked through the clearing's wanton extravagance of greedy
plant life.

As they crossed the clearing, Bucci tripped and sprawled full length
in the mud. When he tried to get up, the vine over which he'd stumbled
clutched with a woody tendril that wound snakelike tightly about his
ankle; and, white-faced, the rest of the men chopped him free of the
serpentine thing with belt knives, bandaged the thorn wounds in his
leg, and went on.

The clearing had one more secret to divulge, however. A movement in the
forest edge caught Brian's eye and he motioned to Hague, who followed
him questioningly as the Sergeant led him off trail. Brian pointed
silently and Hague saw Didrickson, Sergeant in charge of Supplies,
seated in the lemon-colored sunlight at the forest edge, an open food
pack between his knees, from which he snatched things and swallowed
them voraciously, feeding like a wild dog.

"Didrickson! Sergeant Didrickson!" the Lieutenant yelled. "What are you
doing?"

The supply man stared back, and Hague knew from the man's face what
had happened. He crouched warily, eyes wild with panic and jaw hanging
foolishly slack. This was Didrickson, the steady, efficient man who'd
sat at the chart table the night they began this march. He had been the
only man Devlin thought competent and nerveless enough to handle the
food. This was the same Didrickson, and madder now than a March hare,
Hague concluded grimly. The enlisted man snatched up the food pack,
staring at them in wild fear, and began to run back down the trail,
back the way they'd come.

"Come back, Didrickson. We've got to have that food, you fool!"

The madman laughed crazily at the sound of the officer's voice,
glanced back for a moment, then spun and ran.

Sergeant Brian, as always, was ready. His rifle cracked, and the
explosive missile blew the running man nearly in half. Sergeant Brian
silently retrieved the food pack and brought it back to Hague.

"Do you want it here, Lieutenant, or shall I take it up to the main
party?"

"We'll keep it here, Sergeant. Sewell can take it back tonight after
our medical check." Hague's voice shook, and he wished savagely
that he could have had the nerve to pass that swift death sentence.
Didrickson's crime was dangerous to every member of the party, and the
Sergeant had been right to shoot. But when the time came--when perhaps
the Sergeant wasn't with him--would he, Hague, react swiftly and coolly
as an officer should, he wondered despairingly?

"All right, lads, let's pull," he said, and the tight-lipped gun crew
filed again into the hushed, somber forest corridors.


                                  II

Communications Technician Harker took a deep pull at his mug of
steaming coffee, blinked his eyes hard at the swimming dials before
him, and lit a cigarette. Odysseus warning center was never quiet,
even now in the graveyard watch when all other lights were turned low
through the great ship's hull. Here in the neat grey room, murmuring,
softly-clicking signal equipment was banked against every wall in a
gleaming array of dials and meters, heavy power leads, black panels,
and intricate sheafs of colored wire. The sonar kept up a sleepy drone,
and radar scopes glowed fitfully with interference patterns, and the
warning buzzer beeped softly as the radar echoed back to its receivers
the rumor of strange planetary forces that radar hadn't been built to
filter through. What made the interference, base technicians couldn't
tell, but it practically paralyzed radio communication on all bands,
and blanketed out even radar warnings.

The cigarette burned his finger tips, and Harker jerked awake and
tried to concentrate on the letter he was writing home. It would be
microfilmed, and go on the next courier rocket. A movement at the
Warnings Room door, brought Harker's head up, and he saw Commander
Chapman, lean and grey, standing there.

"Good evening, sir. Come on in. I've got coffee on." The Communications
Technician took a pot from the glow heater at his elbow, and set out
another cup.

The Commander smiled tiredly, pulled out a stubby metal stool, and
sat across the low table from Harker, sipping the scalding coffee
cautiously. He looked up after a moment.

"What's the good word, Harker? Picked up anything?"

Harker ran his fingers through his mop of black hair, and grimaced.

"Not a squeak, sir. No radio, no radar. Of course, the interference may
be blanketing those. Creates a lot of false signals, too, on the radar
screens. But we can't even pick 'em up with long-range sonar. That
should get through. We're pretty sure they crashed, all right."

"How about our signals, Harker? Do you think we're getting through to
them?"

Harker leaned back expansively, happy to expound his specialty.

"Well, we've been sending radio signals every hour on the hour, and
radio voice messages every hour on the half hour. We're sending a
continuous sonar beam for their direction-finder. That's about all we
can do. As for their picking it up, assuming the rocket has crashed
and been totally knocked out, they still have a radio in the whippet
tank. It's a transreceiver. And they have a portable sonar set, one of
those little twenty-pound armored detection units. They'll use it as a
direction finder."

Chapman swirled the coffee around in the bottom of his cup and stared
thoughtfully into it.

"If they can get sonar, why can't we send them messages down the sonar
beam? You know, flick it on and off in Morse code?"

"It won't work with a small detector like they have, sir. With our big
set here, we could send them a message, but that outfit they have might
burn out. It has a limited sealed motor supply that must break down
an initial current resistance on the grids before the rectifiers can
convert it to audible sound. With the set operating continuously, power
drainage is small, but begin changing your signal beam and the power
has to break down the grid resistance several hundred times for every
short signal sent. It would burn out their set in a matter of hours.

"It works like a slide trombone, sort of. Run your slide way out, and
you get a slowly vibrating column of air, and that is heard as a low
note, only on sonar it would be a short note. Run your slide way up,
and the vibrations are progessively faster and higher in pitch. The
sonar set, at peak, is vibrating so rapidly that it's almost static,
and the power flow is actually continuous. But, starting and stopping
the set continuously, the vibrators never have a chance to reach a
normal peak, and the power flow is broken at each vibration in the
receiver--and a few hours later your sonar receptor is a hunk of junk."

"All right, Harker. Your discussion is vague, but I get the general
idea that my suggestion wasn't too hot. Well, have whoever is on duty
call me if any signals come through." The Commander set down his cup,
said goodnight, and moved off down the hushed corridor. Harker returned
to his letter and a chewed stub of pencil, while he scowled in a
fevered agony of composition. It was a letter to his girl, and it had
to be good.

       *       *       *       *       *

Night had begun to fall over the forest roof, and stole thickening down
the muddy cathedral aisles of great trees, and Hague listened hopefully
for the halt signal from the whippet tank, which should come soon.
He was worried about Bucci who was laughing and talking volubly, and
the officer decided he must have a touch of fever. The dark, muscular
gunner kept talking about his young wife in what was almost a babble.
Once he staggered and nearly fell, until Hurd took the pneumatic gun
barrel assembly and carried it on his own shoulders. They were all
listening expectantly for the tank's klaxon, when a brassy scream
ripped the evening to echoing shreds and a flurry of shots broke out
ahead.

The scream came again, metallic and shrill as a locomotive gone amok;
yells, explosive-bullet reports, and the sound of hammering blows
drifted back.

"Take over, Brian," Hague snapped. "Crosse, Hurd--let's go!"

The three men ran at a stagger through the dragging mud around a turn
in the trail, and dropped the pneumatic gun swiftly into place, Hurd at
firing position, Crosse on the charger, and Hague prone in the slime
snapping an ammunition belt into the loader.

Two emergency flares some one had thrown lit the trail ahead in a
garish photographic fantasy of bright, white light and ink-black
shadow, a scene out of Inferno. A cart lay on its side, men were
running clear, the whippet tank lay squirming on its side, and above it
towered the screaming thing. A lizard, or dinosaur, rearing up thirty
feet, scaly grey, a man clutched in its two hand-like claws, while its
armored tail smashed and smashed at the tank with pile-driver blows.
Explosive bullets cracked around the thing's chest in blue-white flares
of light, but it continued to rip at the man twisting pygmy-like in
its claws--white teeth glinting like sabers as its blindly malevolent
screams went on.

"On target," Hurd's voice came strained and low.

"Charge on," from Crosse.

"Let her go!" Hague yelled, and fed APX cartridges as the gun coughed
a burst of armor-piercing, explosive shells into the rearing beast.
Hague saw the tank turret swing up as Whittaker tried to get his gun
in action, but a slashing slap of the monster's tail spun it back
brokenly. The cluster of pneumatic shells hit then and burst within
that body, and the great grey-skinned trunk was hurled off the trail,
the head slapping against a tree trunk on the other side as the reptile
was halved.

"Good shooting, Crosse," Hague grunted. "Get back with Brian. Keep the
gun ready. That thing might have a mate." He ran toward the main party,
and into the glare of the two flares.

"Where's Devlin?"

Clark, the navigation officer, was standing with a small huddle of men
near the smashed supply cart.

"Here, Hague," he called. His eyes were sunken, his face older in the
days since Hague had last seen him. "Devlin's dead, smashed between the
cart and a tree trunk. We've lost two men, Commander Devlin and Ellis,
the soils man. He's the one it was eating." He grimaced.

"That leaves twenty-three of us?" Hague inquired, and tried to sound
casual.

"That's right. You'll continue to cover the rear. Those horn sounds you
reported had Devlin worried about an attack from your direction. I'll
be with the tank."

Sergeant Brian was stoically heating ration stew over the cook unit
when Hague returned, while the crew sat in a close circle, alternately
eying nervously the forest at their backs, and the savory steam that
rose from Brian's mixture. There wasn't much for each of them, but it
was hot and highly nutritious, and after a cigarette and coffee they
would feel comfort for a while.

Crosse, seated on the grey metal charger tube he'd carried all
day, fingered the helmet in his lap, and looked inquiringly at the
Lieutenant.

"Well, sir, anybody hurt? Was the tank smashed?"

Hague squatted in the circle, sniffed the stew with loud enthusiasm,
and looked about the circle.

"Commander Devlin's dead, and Ellis. One supply cart smashed, but the
tank'll be all right. The lizard charged the tank. Balistierri thinks
it was the lizard's mating season, and he figured the tank was another
male and he tried to fight it. Then he stayed--to--lunch and we got
him. Lieutenant Clark is in command now."

The orange glow of Brian's cook unit painted queer shadows on the
strained faces around him, and Hague tried to brighten them up.

"Will you favor us with one of your inimitable harmonica arrangements,
Maestro Bormann?"

"I can't right now. I'm bandaging Helen's wing." He held out something
in the palm of his hand, and the heater's glow glittered on liquid
black eyes. "She's like a little bird, but without her feathers. See?"
He placed the warm lump in Hague's hand. "For wings, she's just got
skin, like a bat, except she's built like a bird."

"You ought to show this to Balistierri, and maybe he'll name this for
you too."

Bormann's homely face creased into a grin. "I did, sir. At the noon
halt when I found it. It's named after my girl. 'Bormann's Helen', only
in Latin. Helen's got a broken wing."

       *       *       *       *       *

As they ate, they heard the horn note again. Bucci's black eyes were
feverishly bright, his skin hot and dry, and the vine scratches on his
leg badly inflamed; and when the rest began to sing he was quiet. The
reedy song of Bormann's harmonica piped down the quiet forest passages,
and echoed back from the great trees; and somewhere, as Hague dozed off
in his little tent, he heard the horn note again, sandwiched into mouth
organ melody.

Two days of slogging through the slimy green mud, and at a noon halt
Sewell brought back word to be careful, that a man had failed to report
at roll call that morning. The gun crew divided Bucci's equipment
between them, and he limped in the middle of the file on crutches
fashioned from ration cart wreckage. Crosse, who'd been glancing off
continually, like a wizened, curious rat, flung up his arm in a silent
signal to halt, and Hague moved in to investigate, the ever present
Brian moving carefully and with jungle beast's silent poise just behind
him. Crumpled like a sack of damp laundry, in the murk of two root
buttresses, lay Romano, one of the two photographers. His Hasselblad
camera lay beneath his body crushing a small plant he must have been
photographing.

From the back of Romano's neck protruded a gleaming nine-inch arrow
shaft, a lovely thing of gleaming bronze-like metal, delicately thin
of shaft and with fragile hammered bronze vanes. Brian moved up behind
Hague, bent over the body and cut the arrow free.

They examined the thing, and when Brian spoke Hague was surprised that
this time even the rock-steady Sergeant spoke in a hushed voice, the
kind boys use when they walk by a graveyard at night and don't wish to
attract unwelcome attention.

"Looks like it came from a blowgun, Lieutenant. See the plug at the
back. It must be poisoned; it's not big enough to kill him otherwise."

Hague grunted assent, and the two moved back trailward.

"Brian, take over. Crosse, come on. We'll report this to Clark.
Remember, from now on wear your body armor and go in pairs when you
leave the trail. Get Bucci's plates on to him."

Bormann and Hurd set down their loads, and were buckling the weakly
protesting Bucci into his chest and back plates, as Hague left them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commander Chapman stared at the circle of faces. His section commanders
lounged about his tiny square office. "Well, then, what are their
chances?"

Bjornson, executive for the technical section, stared at Chapman
levelly.

"I can vouch for Devlin. He's not precisely a rule-book officer, but
that's why I recommended him for this expedition. He's at his best in
an unusual situation, one where he has to depend on his own wits. He'll
bring them through."

Artilleryman Branch spoke in turn. "I don't know about Hague. He's
young, untried. Seemed a little unsure. He might grow panicky and
be useless. I sent him because there was no one else, unless I went
myself."

The Commander cleared his throat brusquely. "I know you wanted to go,
Branch, but we can't send out our executive officers. Not yet, anyway.
What about Clark? Could he take over Devlin's job?"

"Clark can handle it," Captain Rindell of the Science Section, was
saying. "He likes to follow the rule-book, but he's sturdy stuff. He'll
bring them through if something happens to Devlin."

"Hmmmm--that leaves Hague as the one questionable link in their chain
of command. Young man, untried. Of course, he's only the junior
officer. There's no use stewing over this; but I'll tell you frankly,
that if those men can't get their records through to us before we send
the next courier rocket to earth, I think the U.S. Rocket Service is
finished. This attempt will be chalked up as a failure. The project
will be abandoned entirely, and we'll be ordered back to Earth to serve
as a fighter arm there."

Bjornson peered from the space-port window and looked out over the
cinder-packed parade a hundred feet below. "What makes you so sure the
Rocket Service is in immediate danger of being scrapped?"

"The last courier rocket contained a confidential memo from Secretary
Dougherty. There is considerable war talk, and the other Service Arms
are plunging for larger armaments. They want their appropriations of
money and stock pile materials expanded at our expense. We've got to
show that we are doing a good job, show the Government a concrete
return in the form of adequate reports on the surface of Venus, and its
soils and raw materials."

"What about the 'copters!" Rindell inquired. "They brought in some good
stuff for the reports."

"Yes, but with a crew of only four men, they can't do enough."

Branch cut in dryly. "About all I can see is to look hopeful. The
Rocket would have exhausted its fuel long ago. It's been over ten weeks
since they left Base."

"Assuming they're marching overland, God forbid, they'll have only
sonar and radio, right?" Bjornson was saying. "Why not keep our klaxon
going? It's a pretty faint hope, but we'll have to try everything. My
section is keeping the listeners manned continually, we've got a sonar
beam out, radio messages every thirty minutes, and with the klaxon
we're doing all we can. I doubt if anything living could approach
within a twenty-five mile range without hearing that klaxon, or without
us hearing them with the listeners."

"All right." Commander Chapman stared hopelessly at a fresh batch
of reports burdening his desk. "Send out ground parties within the
ten mile limit, but remember we can't afford to lose men. When
the 'copters are back in, send them both West." West meant merely
in a direction west from Meridian 0, as the mother rocket's landing
place had been designated. "They can't do much searching over that
rainforest, but it's a try. They might pick up a radio message."

Chapman returned grumpily to his reports, and the others filed out.


                                  III

At night, on guard, Hague saw a thousand horrors peopling the Stygian
forest murk; but when he flashed his lightpak into darkness there was
nothing. He wondered how long he could stand the waiting, when he would
crack as Supply Sergeant Didrickson had, and his comrades would blast
him down with explosive bullets. He should be like Brian, hard and
sure, and always doing the right thing, he decided. He'd come out of
OCS Gunnery School, trained briefly in the newly-formed U.S. Rocket
Service. Then the expedition to Venus--it was a fifty-fifty chance they
said, and out of all the volunteers he'd been picked. And when the
first expedition was ready to blast off from the Base Camp on Venus,
he'd been picked again. Why, he cursed despairingly? Sure, he wanted
to come, but how could his commanders have had faith in him, when he
didn't know himself if he could continue to hold out.

Sounds on the trail sent his carbine automatically to ready, and he
called a strained, "Halt."

"Okay, Hague. It's Clark and Arndt."

The wiry little navigation officer, and lean, scraggy Geologist Arndt,
the latter's arm still in a sling, came into the glow of Hague's
lightpak.

"Any more horns or arrows?" Clark's voice sounded tight, and repressed;
Hague reflected that perhaps the strain was getting him too.

"No, but Bucci is getting worse. Can't you carry him on the cart?"

"Hague, I've told you twenty times. That cart is full and breaking down
now. Get it through your head that it's no longer individual men we can
think of now, but the entire party. If they can't march, they must be
left, or all of us may die!" His voice was savage, and when he tried to
light a cigarette his hand shook. "All right. It's murder, and I don't
like it any better than you do."

"How are we doing? What's the over-all picture?" Both of the officers
tried to smile a little at the memory of that pompous little phrase,
favorite of a windbag they'd served under.

"Not good. Twenty-two of us now."

"Hirooka thinks we may be within radio range of Base soon," he
continued more hopefully. "With this interference, we can't tell,
though."

They talked a little longer, Arndt gave the gunnery officer a
food-and-medical supply packet, and Hague's visitors became two bobbing
glows of light that vanished down the trail.

A soul crushing weight of days passed while they strained forward
through mud and green gloom, like men walking on a forest sea
bottom. Then it was a cool dawn, and a tugging at his boot awoke the
Lieutenant. Hurd, his face a strained mask, was peering into the
officer's small shelter tent and jerking at his leg.

"Get awake, Lieutenant. I think they're here."

Hague struggled hard to blink off the exhausted sleep he'd been in.

"Listen, Lieutenant, one of them horns has been blowing. It's right
here. Between us and the main party."

"Okay." Hague rolled swiftly from the tent as Hurd awoke the men. Hague
moved swiftly to each.

"Brian, you handle the gun. Bucci, loader. Crosse, charger. Bormann,
cover our right; Hurd the left. I'll watch the trail ahead."

Brian and Crosse worked swiftly and quietly with the lethal efficiency
that had made them crack gunners at Fort Fisher, North Carolina. Bucci
lay motionless at the ammunition box, but his eyes were bright, and he
didn't seem to mind his feverish, swollen leg. The Sergeant and Crosse
slewed the pneumatic gun to cover their back trail, and fell into
position beside the gleaming grey tube. Hague, Bormann and Hurd moved
quickly at striking tents and rolling packs, their rifles ready at hand.

Hague had forgotten his fears and the self-doubt, the feeling that he
had no business ordering men like Sergeant Brian, and Hurd and Bormann.
They were swallowed in intense expectancy as he lay watching the dawn
fog that obscured like thick smoke the trail that led to Clark's party
and the whippet tank.

He peered back over his shoulder for a moment. Brian, Bucci, and
Crosse, mud-stained backs toward him, were checking the gun and
murmuring soft comments. Bormann looked at the officer, grinned
tightly, and pointed at Helen perched on his shoulder. His lips
carefully framed the words, "Be a pushover, Helen brings luck."

The little bird peered up into Bormann's old-young face, and Hague,
trying to grin back, hoped he looked confident. Hurd lay on the other
side of the trail, his back to Bormann, peering over his rifle barrel,
bearded jaws rhythmically working a cud of tobacco he'd salvaged
somewhere, and Hague suddenly thought he must have been saving it for
the finish.

Hague looked back into the green light beginning to penetrate the trail
fog, changing it into a glowing mass--then thought he saw a movement.
Up the trail, the whippet tank's motor caught with a roar, and he heard
Whittaker traversing the battered tank's turret. The turret gun boomed
flatly, and a shell burst somewhere in the forest darkness to Hague's
right.

Then there was a gobbling yell and gray man-like figures poured out
onto the trail. Hague set his sights on them, the black sight-blade
silhouetting sharply in the glowing fog. He set them on a running
figure, and squeezed his trigger, then again, and again, as new targets
came. Sharp reports ran crackling among the great trees. Sharp screams
came, and a whistling sound overhead that he knew were blowgun arrows.
The pneumatic gun sputtered behind him, and Bormann's and Hurd's rifles
thudded in the growing roar.

[Illustration: _With a gobbling yell, gray, man-like figures came
leaping among them._]

Blue flashes and explosive bullets made fantastic flares back in the
forest shadows; and suddenly a knot of man-shapes were running toward
him through the fog. Hague picked out one in the glowing mist, fired,
another, fired. Gobbling yells were around him, and he shot toward them
through the fog, at point-blank range. A thing rose up beside him, and
Hague yelled with murderous fury, and drove his belt knife up into grey
leather skin. Something burned his shoulder as he rolled aside and
fired at the dark form standing over him with a poised, barbed spear.
The blue-white flash was blinding, and he cursed and leaped up.

There was nothing more. Scattered shots, and the forest lay quiet
again. After that shot at point-blank range, Hague's vision had blacked
out.

"Any one else need first aid?" he called, and tried to keep his voice
firm. When there was silence, he said, "Hurd, lead me to the tank."

He heard the rat-faced man choke, "My God, he's blind."

"Just flash blindness, Hurd. Only temporary." Hague kept his face
stiff, and hoped frantically that he was right, that it was just
temporary blindness, temporary optic shock.

Sergeant Brian's icy voice cut in. "Gun's all right, Lieutenant. Nobody
hurt. We fired twenty-eight rounds of H.E. No A.P.X. Get going with
him, Hurd."

He felt Hurd's tug at his elbow, and they made their way up the trail.

"What do they look like, Hurd?"

"These men-things? They're grey, about my size, skin looks like
leather, and their heads are flattish. Eyes on the side of their heads,
like a lizard. Not a stitch of clothes. Just a belt with a knife and
arrow holder. And they got webbed claws for feet. They're ugly-looking
things, sir. Here's the tank."

Clark's voice came, hard and clear. "That you, Hague?" Silence for a
moment. "What's wrong? You're not blinded?"

Sewell had dropped his irascibility, and his voice was steady and
kindly.

"Just flash blindness, isn't it, sir? This salve will fix you up.
You've got a cut on your shoulder. I'll take care of that too."

"How are your men, Hague?" Clark sounded as though he were standing
beside Hague.

"Not a scratch. We're ready to march."

"Five hurt here, three with the advance party, and two at the tank. We
got 'em good, though. They hit the trail between our units and got fire
from both sides. Must be twenty of them dead."

Hague grimaced at the sting of something Sewell had squeezed into his
eyes. "Who was hurt?"

"Arndt, the geologist; his buddy, Gault, the botanist; lab technician
Harker, Crewman Harker, and Szachek, the meteorologist man. How's your
pneumatic ammunition?"

"We fired twenty-eight rounds of H.E."

Cartographer Hirooka's voice burst in excitedly.

"That gun crew of yours! Your gun crew got twenty-one of these--these
lizard-men. A bunch came up our back trail, and the pneumatic cut them
to pieces."

"Good going, Hague. We'll leave you extended back there. I'm pulling in
the advance party, and there'll be just two groups. We'll be at point,
and you continue at afterguard." Clark was silent for a moment, then
his voice came bitterly, "We're down to seventeen men, you know."

He cursed, and Hague heard the wiry little navigator slosh away through
the mud and begin shouting orders. He and Hurd started back with
Whittaker and Sergeant Sample yelling wild instructions from the tank
as to what the rear guard might do with the next batch of lizard-men
who came sneaking up.

Hague's vision was clearing, and he saw Balistierri and the
photographer Whitcomb through a milky haze, measuring, photographing,
and even dissecting several of the lizard-men. The back trail, swept
by pneumatic gunfire was a wreck of wood splinters and smashed trees,
smashed bodies, and cratered earth.

They broke down the gun, harnessed the equipment, and swung off at the
sound of Clark's whistle. Bucci had to be supported between two of the
others, and they took turnabout at the job, sloshing through the water
and mud, with Bucci's one swollen leg dragging uselessly between them.
It was punishing work as the heat veils shimmered and thickened, but
no one seemed to consider leaving him behind, Hague noticed; and he
determined to say nothing about Clark's orders that the sick must be
abandoned.

Days and nights flashed by in a dreary monotony of mud, heat, insects
and thinning rations. Then one morning the giant trees began to thin,
and they passed from rainforest into jungle.

The change was too late for Bucci. They carved a neat marker beside
the trail, and set the dead youth's helmet atop it. Lieutenant Hague
carried ahead a smudged letter in his shirt, with instructions to
forward it to Wilma, the gunner's young wife.

Hague and his four gunners followed the rattling whippet tank's trail
higher, the jungle fell behind, and their protesting legs carried them
over the rim of a high, cloud-swept plateau, that swept on to the limit
of vision on both sides and ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

The city's black walls squatted secretively; foursquare, black, glassy
walls with a blocky tower set sturdily at each of the four corners,
enclosing what appeared to be a square mile of low buildings. Grey fog
whipped coldly across the flat bleakness and rustled through dark grass.

Balistierri, plodding beside Hague at the rear, stared at it warily,
muttering, "And Childe Roland to the dark tower came."

Sampler's tank ground along the base of the twelve-foot wall, turned at
a sharp right angle, and the party filed through a square cut opening
that once had been a gate. The black city looked tenantless. There was
dark-hued grass growing in the misted streets and squares, and across
the lintels of cube-shaped, neatly aligned dwellings, fashioned of
thick, black blocks. Hague could hear nothing but whipping wind, the
tank's clatter, and the quiet clink of equipment as men shuffled ahead
through the knee-high grass, peering watchfully into dark doorways.

Clark's whistle shrilled, the tank motor died, and they waited.

"Hague, come ahead."

The gunnery officer nodded at Sergeant Brian, and walked swiftly to
Clark, who was leaning against the tank's mud-caked side.

"Sampler says we've got to make repairs on the tank. We'll shelter
here. Set your gun on a roof top commanding the street--or, better yet,
set it on the wall. I'll want two of your gunners to go hunting food
animals."

"What do you think this place is, Bob?"

"Beats me," and the navigator's wind-burned face twisted in a perplexed
expression. "Lenkranz knows more about metals, but he thinks this stone
is volcanic, like obsidian. Those lizard-men couldn't have built it."

"We passed some kind of bas-relief or murals inside the gate."

"Whitcomb is going to photograph them. Blake, Lenkranz, Johnston, and
Hirooka are going to explore the place. Your two gunners, and Crewman
Swenson and Balistierri will form the two hunting parties."

For five days, Hague and Crosse walked over the sullen plateau beneath
scudding, leaden clouds, hunting little lizards that resembled
dinosaurs and ran in coveys like grey chickens. The meat was good,
and Sewell dropped his role of medical technician to achieve glowing
accolades as an expert cook. Balistierri was in a zoologist's paradise,
and he hunted over the windy plain with Swenson, the big white-haired
Swede, for ten and twelve hours at a stretch. Balistierri would sit in
the cook's unit glow at night, his thin face ecstatic as he described
the weird life forms he and Swenson had tracked down during the day;
or alternately he'd bemoan the necessity of eating what were to him
priceless zoological specimens.

Whittaker and Sampler hammered in the recalcitrant tank's bowels and
shouted ribald remarks to any one nearby, until they emerged the third
day, grease-stained and perspiring, to announce that "She's ready to
roll her g---- d---- cleats off."

Whittaker had been nursing the tank's radio transreceiver beside the
forward hatch this grey afternoon, when his wild yell brought Hague
erect. The officer carefully handed Bormann's skin bird back to the
gunner, swung down from the city wall's edge, and ran to Whittaker's
side. Clark was already there when Hague reached the tank.

"Listen! I've got 'em!" Whittaker yelped and extended the crackling
earphones to Clark.

A tinny voice penetrated the interference.

"Base.... Peter One.... Do you hear ... to George Easy Peter One ...
hear me ... out."

Whittaker snapped on his throat microphone.

"George Easy Peter One To Base. George Easy Peter One To Base. We hear
you. We hear you. Rocket crashed. Rocket crashed. Returning overland.
Returning overland. Present strength sixteen men. Can you drop us
supplies? Can you drop us supplies?"

The earphones sputtered, but no more voices came through. Clark's
excited face fell into tired lines.

"We've lost them. Keep trying, Whittaker. Hague, we'll march-order
tomorrow at dawn. You'll take the rear again."

       *       *       *       *       *

Grey, windy dawnlight brought them out to the sound of Clark's call.
Strapping on equipment and plates, they assembled around the tank. They
were rested, and full fed.

"Walk, you poor devils," Whittaker was yelling from his tank turret.
"And, if you get tired, run awhile," he snorted, grinning heartlessly,
as he leaned back in pretended luxury against the gunner's seat, a
thinly padded metal strip.

Balistierri and the blond Swenson shouldered their rifles and shuffled
out. They would move well in advance as scouts.

"I wouldn't ride in that armored alarm-clock if it had a built-in
harem," Hurd was screaming at Whittaker, and hurled a well-placed
mudball at the tankman's head as the tank motor caught, and the metal
vehicle lumbered ahead toward the gate, with Whittaker sneering, but
with most of his head safely below the turret rim. Beside it marched
Clark, his ragged uniform carefully scraped clean of mud, and with
him Lenkranz, the metals man. Both carried rifles and wore half empty
bandoliers of blast cartridges.

The supply cart jerked behind the tank, and behind it filed Whitcomb
with his cameras; Sewell, the big, laconic medical technician;
Johnston; cartographer Hirooka perusing absorbedly the clip board that
held his strip map; Blake, the lean and spectacled bacteriologist,
brought up the rear. Hague waited until they had disappeared through
the gate cut sharply in the city's black wall, then he turned to his
gun crew.

Sergeant Brian, saturnine as always, swung past carrying the pneumatic
barrel assembly, Crosse with the charger a pace behind. Next, Bormann,
whispering to Helen who rode his shoulder piping throaty calls.
Last came Hurd, swaggering past with jaws grinding steadily at that
mysterious cud. Hague cast a glance over his shoulder at the deserted
street of black cubes, wondered at the dank loneness of the place, and
followed Hurd.

The hours wore on as they swung across dark grass, through damp
tendrils of cloud, and faced into whipping, cold wind, eyes narrowed
against its sting. Helen, squawking unhappily, crawled inside Bormann's
shirt and rode with just her brown bird-head protruding.

"Look at the big hole, Lieutenant," Hurd called above the wind.

Hurd had dropped behind, and Hague called a halt to investigate Hurd's
find, but as he hiked rapidly back, the wiry little man yelled and
pitched out of sight. Brian came running, and he and Hague peered over
the edge of a funnel shaped pit, from which Hurd was trying to crawl.
Each time he'd get a third of the way up the eighteen-foot slope,
gravelly soil would slide and he'd again be carried to the bottom.

"Throw me a line."

Brian pulled a hank of nylon line from his belt, shook out the snarls,
and tossed an end into Hurd's clawing hands. Hague and the Sergeant
anchored themselves to the upper end and were preparing to haul, when
Hague saw something move in the gravel beneath Hurd's feet, at the
funnel bottom, and saw a giant pincers emerging from loose, black
gravel.

"Hurd look out!" he screamed.

The little man, white-faced, threw himself aside as a giant beetle head
erupted through the funnel bottom. The great pincers jaws fastened
around Hurd's waist as he struggled frantically up the pit's side. He
began screaming when the beetle monster dragged him relentlessly down,
his distorted face flung up at them appealingly. Hague snatched at his
rifle and brought it up. When the gun cracked, the pincers tightened on
Hurd's middle, and the little man was snipped in half. The blue-white
flash and report of the explosive bullet blended with Hurd's choked
yells, the beetle rolled over on its back and the two bodies lay
entangled at the pit bottom. Brian and Hague looked at each other in
silent, blanched horror, then turned from the pit's edge and loped back
to the others.

Bormann and Crosse peered fearfully across the wind-whipped grass, and
inquired in shouts what Hurd was doing.

"He's dead, gone," Hague yelled savagely over the wind's whine. "Keep
moving. We can't do anything. Keep going."


                                  IV

At 1630 hours Commander Technician Harker slipped on the earset, threw
over a transmitting switch, and monotoned the routine verbal message.

"Base to George Easy Peter One.... Base to George Easy Peter One....
Do you hear me George Easy Peter One.... Do you hear me George Easy
Peter One ... reply please ... reply please." Nothing came from his
earphones, but bursts of crackling interference, until he tried the
'copters next, and "George Easy Peter Two" and "George Easy Peter Three"
reported in. They were operating near the base.

He tried "One" again, just in case.

"Base to George Easy Peter One.... Base to George Easy Peter One.... Do
you hear me.... Do you hear me ... out."

A scratching whisper resolved over the interference. Harker's face
wore a stunned look, but he quickly flung over a second switch and the
scratching voice blared over the mother ship's entire address system.
Men dropped their work throughout the great hull, and clustered around
the speakers.

"George One.... Base ... hear you ... rocket crashed ... overland ...
present strength ... supplies ... drop supplies."

Interference surged back and drowned the whispering voice, while
through Odysseus' hull a ragged cheer grew and gathered volume. Harker
shut off the address system and strained over his crackling earphones,
but nothing more came in response to his radio calls.

He glanced up and found the Warning Room jammed with technicians,
science section members, officers, men in laboratory smocks, or greasy
overalls, or spotless Rocket Service uniforms, watching intently his
own strained face as he tried to get through. Commander Chapman
looked haggard, and Harker remembered that some one had once said that
Chapman's young sister was the wife of the medical technician who'd
gone out with Patrol Rocket One.

Harker finally pulled off the earphones reluctantly and set them on the
table before him. "That's all. You heard everything they said over the
P.A. system. Nothing more is coming through."

       *       *       *       *       *

Night came, another day, night again, and they came finally to the
plateau's end, and stood staring from a windy escarpment across an
endless roof of rainforest far below, grey green under the continuous
roof of lead-colored clouds. Hague, standing back a little, watched
them. A thin line of ragged men along the rim peering mournfully out
across that endless expanse for a gleam that might be the distant hull
of Odysseus, the mother ship. A damp wind fluttered their rags and
plastered them against gaunt bodies.

Clark and Sampler were conferring in shouts.

"Will the tank make it down this grade?" Clark wanted to know.

For once, Sergeant Sampler's mobile, merry face was grim.

"I don't know, but we'll sure try. Be ready to cut that cart loose if
the tank starts to slip."

Drag ropes were fastened to the cart, a man stationed at the tank
hitch, and Sampler sent his tank lurching forward over the edge, and
it slanted down at a sharp angle. Hague, holding a drag rope, set his
heels and allowed the tank's weight to pull him forward over the rim;
and the tank, cart, and muddy figures hanging to drag ropes began
descending the steep gradient. Bormann, just ahead of the Lieutenant,
strained back at the rope and turned a tight face over his shoulder.

"She's slipping faster!"

The tank was picking up speed, and Hague heard the clash of gears as
Sampler tried to fight the downward pull of gravity. Gears ground,
and Sampler forced the whippet straight again, but the downward slide
was increasing. Hague was flattened under Bormann, heels digging, and
behind him he could hear Sergeant Brian cursing, struggling to keep
flat against the downward pull.

The tank careened sideways again, slipped, and Whittaker's white face
popped from her turret.

"She's going," he screamed.

A drag rope parted. Clark sprang like a madman between tank and cart,
and cut the hitch. The tank, with no longer sufficient restraining
weight, tipped with slow majesty outward, then rolled out and down,
bouncing, smashing as if in a slow motion film, shedding parts at
each crushing contact. It looked like a toy below them, still rolling
and gathering speed, when Hague saw Whittaker's body fly free, a tiny
ragdoll at that distance, and the tank was lost to view when it bounced
off a ledge and went floating down through space.

Clark signalled them forward, and they inched the supply cart downward
on the drag ropes, legs trembling with strain, and their nerves
twitching at the memory of Whittaker's chalky face peering from the
falling turret. It was eight hours before they reached the bottom,
reeling with exhaustion, set a guard, and tumbled into their shelter
tents. Outside, Hague could hear Clark pacing restlessly, trying to
assure himself that he'd been right to cut the tank free, that there'd
been no chance to save Whittaker and Sampler when the tank began to
slide.

Hague lay in his little tent listening to the footsteps splash past
in muddy Venusian soil, and was thankful that he hadn't had to make
the decision. He'd been saving three cigarettes in an oilskin packet,
and he drew one carefully from the wrapping now, lit it, and inhaled
deeply. Could he have done what Clark did--break that hitch? He still
didn't know when he took a last lung-filling pull at the tiny stub of
cigarette and crushed it out carefully.

As dawn filtered through the cloud layer, they were rolling shelter
tents and buckling on equipment. Clark's face was a worn mask when he
talked with Hague, and his fingers shook over his pack buckles.

"There are thirteen of us. Six men will pull the supply cart, and six
guard, in four hour shifts. You and I will alternate command at guard."

He was silent for a moment, then watched Hague's face intently as he
spoke again.

"It'll be a first grade miracle if any of us get through. Hague,
you--you know I had to cut that tank free." His voice rose nervously.
"You know that! You're an officer."

"Yeah, I guess you did." Hague couldn't say it any better, and he
turned away and fussed busily with the bars holding the portable Sonar
detection unit to the supply cart.

They moved off with Hague leaning into harness pulling the supply
cart bumpily ahead. Clark stumbled jerkily at the head, with Blake, a
lean, silent ghost beside him, rifle in hand. The cart came next with
Hague, Bormann, Sergeant Brian, Crosse, Lenkranz and Sewell leaning
in single file against its weight. At the rear marched photographer
Whitcomb, Hirooka with his maps, and Balistierri, each carrying a
rifle. The big Swede Swenson was last in line, peering warily back into
the rainforest shadows. The thirteen men wound Indian file from sight
of the flatheaded reptilian thing, clutching a sheaf of bronze arrows,
that watched them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hague had lost count of days again when he looked up into the shadowy
forest roof, his feet finding their way unconsciously through the thin
mud, his ears registering automatically the murmurs of talk behind him,
the supply cart's tortured creaking, and the continuous Sonar drone.
The air felt different, warmer than its usual steam bath heat, close
and charged with expectancy, and the forest seemed to crouch in waiting
with the repressed silence of a hunting cat.

Crosse yelled thinly from the rear of the file, and they all halted
to listen, the hauling crew dropping their harness thankfully. Hague
turned back and saw Crosse's thin arm waving a rifle overhead, then
pointing down the trail. The Lieutenant listened carefully until
he caught the sound, a thin call, the sound of a horn mellowed by
distance.

The men unthinkingly moved in close and threw wary looks into the
forest ways around them.

"Move further ahead, Hague. Must be more lizard-men." Clark swore, with
tired despair. "All right, let's get moving and make it fast."

The cart creaked ahead again, moving faster this time, and the snicking
of rifle bolts came to Hague. He moved swiftly ahead on the trail and
glanced up again, saw breaks in the forest roof, and realized that the
huge trees were pitching wildly far above.

"Look up," he yelled, "wind coming!"

The wind came suddenly, striking with stone wall solidity. Hague
sprinted to the cart, and the struggling body of men worked it off
the trail, and into a buttress angle of two great tree roots, lashing
it there with nylon ropes. The wind velocity increased, smashing torn
branches overhead, and ripping at the men who lay with their heads well
down in the mud. Tiny animals were blown hurtling past, and once a
great spider came flailing in cartwheel fashion, then smashed brokenly
against a tree.

The wind drone rose in volume, the air darkened, and Hague lost
sight of the other men from behind his huddled shelter against a
wall like root. The great trees twisted with groaning protest, and
thunderous crashes came downward through the forest, with sometimes
the faint squeak of a dying or frightened animal. The wind halted for
a breathless, hushed moment of utter stillness, broken only by the
dropping of limbs and the scurry of small life forms--then came the
screaming fury from the opposite direction.

For a moment, the gunnery officer thought he'd be torn from the root
to which his clawing fingers clung. Its brutal force smashed breath
from Hague's lungs and held him pinned in his corner until he struggled
choking for air as a drowning man does. It seemed that he couldn't draw
breath, that the air was a solid mass from which he could no longer get
life. Then the wind stopped as suddenly as it had come, leaving dazed
quiet. As he stumbled back to the cart, Hague saw crushed beneath a
thigh-sized limb a feebly moving reptilian head; and the dying eyes of
the lizard-man were still able to stare at him in cold malevolence.

The supply cart was still intact, roped between buttressing roots to
belt knives driven into the tough wood. Hague and Clark freed it,
called a hasty roll, and the march was resumed at a fast pace through
cooled, cleaner air. They could no longer hear horn sounds; but the
grim knowledge that lizard-men were near them lent strength, and Hague
led as rapidly as he dared, listening carefully to the Sonar's drone
behind him, altering his course when the sound faded, and straightening
out when it grew in volume.

A day slipped by and another, and the cart rolled ahead through thin
greasy mud on the forest floor, with the Sonar's drone mingled with
murmuring men's voices talking of food. It was the universal topic, and
they carefully worked out prolonged menus each would engorge when they
reached home. They forgot heat, insect bites, the sapping humidity, and
talked of food--steaming roasts, flanked by crystal goblets of iced
wine, oily roasted nuts, and lush, crisp green salads.


                                   V

Hague, again marching ahead with Balistierri, broke into the
comparatively bright clearing, and was blinded for a moment by the
sudden, cloud-strained light after days of forest darkness. As their
eyes accommodated to the lemon-colored glare, he and Balistierri
sighted the animals squatting beneath low bushes that grew thickly in
the clearing. They were monkey-like primates with golden tawny coats,
a cockatoo crest of white flaring above dog faces. The monkeys stared
a moment, the great white crests rising doubtfully, ivory canine teeth
fully three inches long bared.

They'd been feeding on fruit that dotted the shrub-filled clearing;
but now one screamed a warning, and they sprang into vines that made a
matted wall on every side. The two rifles cracked together again, and
three fantastically colored bodies lay quiet, while the rest of the
troop fled screaming into tree tops and disappeared. At the blast of
sound, a fluttering kaleidoscope of color swept up about the startled
rocketeers, and they stood blinded, while mad whorls of color whirled
around them in a miniature storm.

"Giant butterflies," Balistierri was screaming in ecstasy. "Look at
them! Big as a dove!"

Hague watched the bright insects coalesce into one agitated mass of
vermillion, azure, metallic green, and sulphur yellow twenty feet
overhead. The pulsating mass of hues resolved itself into single
insects, with wings large as dinnerplates, and they streamed out of
sight over the forest roof.

"What were they?" he grinned at Balistierri. "Going to name them after
Bormann?"

The slight zoologist still watched the spot where they'd vanished.

"Does it matter much what I call them? Do you really believe any one
will ever be able to read this logbook I'm making?" He eyed the gunnery
officer bleakly, then, "Well, come on. We'd better skin these monks.
They're food anyway."

Hague followed Balistierri, and they stood looking down at the golden
furred primates. The zoologist knelt, fingered a bedraggled white
crest, and remarked, "These blast cartridges don't leave much meat, do
they? Hardly enough for the whole party." He pulled a tiny metal block,
with a hook and dial, from his pocket, looped the hook through a tendon
in the monkey's leg and lifted the dead animal.

"Hmmm. Forty-seven pounds. Not bad." He weighed each in turn, made
measurements, and entered these in his pocket notebook.

The circle around Sewell, who presided over the cook unit, was merry
that night. The men's eyes were bright in the heater glow as they
stuffed their shrunken stomachs with monkey meat and the fruits the
monkeys had been eating when Hague and Balistierri surprised them.
Swenson and Crosse and Whitcomb, the photographer, overate and were
violently sick; but the others sat picking their teeth contentedly in a
close circle. Bormann pulled his harmonica from his shirt pocket, and
the hard, silvery torrent of music set them to singing softly. Hague
and Blake, the bacteriologist, stood guard among the trees.

At dawn, they were marching again, stepping more briskly over tiny
creeks, through green-tinted mud, and the wet heat. At noon, they heard
the horn again, and Clark ordered silence and a faster pace. They
swung swiftly, eating iron rations as they marched. Hague leaned into
his cart harness and watched perspiration staining through Bormann's
shirted back just ahead of him. Behind, Sergeant Brian tugged manfully,
and growled under his breath at buzzing insects, slapping occasionally
with a low howl of muted anguish. Helen, the skin bird, rode on
Bormann's shoulder, staring back into Hague's face with questioning
chirps; and Hague was whistling softly between his teeth at her, when
Bormann stopped suddenly and Hague slammed into him. Helen took flight
with a startled squawk, and Clark came loping back to demand quiet.
Bormann stared at the two officers, his young-old face blank with
surprise.

"I'm, I'm shot," he stuttered, and stared wonderingly at the thing
thrusting from the side opening in his chest armor. It was one of the
fragile bronze arrows, gleaming metallically in the forest gloom.

Hague cursed, and jerked free of the cart harness.

"Here, I'll get it free." He tugged at the shaft, and Bormann's face
twisted. Hague stepped back. "Where's Sewell? This thing must be
barbed."

"Back off the trail! Form a wide circle around the cart, but stay under
cover! Fight 'em on their own ground!" Clark was yelling, and the men
clustered about the cart faded into forest corridors.

Hague and Sewell, left alone, dragged Bormann's limp length beneath the
metal cart. Hague leaped erect again, man-handled the pneumatic gun off
the cart and onto the trail, spun the charger crank, and lay down in
firing position. Behind him, Sewell grunted, "He's gone. Arrow poison
must have paralyzed his diaphragm and chest muscles."

"Okay. Get up here and handle the ammunition." Hague's face was savage
as the medical technician crawled into position beside him and opened
an ammunition carrier.

"Watch the trail behind me," Hague continued, slamming up the top cover
plate and jerking a belt through the pneumatic breech. "When I yell
charge, spin the charger crank; and when I yell off a number, set the
meter arrow at that number." He snapped the cover plate shut and locked
it.

"The other way! They're coming the other way!" Sewell lumbered to his
knees, and the two heaved the gun around. A blowgun arrow rattled off
the cart body above them, and gobbling yells filtered among the trees
with an answering crack of explosive cartridges. A screaming knot
of grey figures came sprinting down on the cart. Hague squeezed the
pneumatic's trigger, the gun coughed, and blue-fire-limned lizard-men
crumpled in the trail mud.

"Okay, give 'em a few the other way."

The two men horsed the gun around and sent a buzzing flock of explosive
loads down the forest corridor opening ahead of the cart. They began
firing carefully down other corridors opening off the trail, aiming
delicately lest their missiles explode too close and the concussion
kill their own men; but they worked a blasting circle of destruction
that smashed the great trees back in the forest and made openings in
the forest roof. Blue fire flashed in the shadows and froze weird
tableaus of screaming lizard-men and hurtling mud, branches, and great
splinters of wood.

An exulting yell burst behind them. Hague saw Sewell stare over his
shoulder, face contorted, then the big medical technician sprang to his
feet. Hague rolled hard, pulling his belt knife, and saw Sewell and
a grey man-shape locked in combat above him, saw leathery grey claws
drive a bronze knife into the medic's unarmored throat; and then the
gunnery officer was on his feet, knife slashing, and the lizard-man
fell across the prone Sewell. An almost audible silence fell over the
forest, and Hague saw Rocketeers filtering back onto the cart trail,
rifles cautiously extended at ready.

"Where's Clark?" he asked Lenkranz. The grey-haired metals man gazed
back dully.

"I haven't seen him since we left the trail. I was with Swenson."

The others moved in, and Hague listed the casualties. Sewell, Bormann,
and Lieutenant Clark. Gunnery Officer Clarence Hague was now in
command. That the Junior Lieutenant now commanded Ground Expeditionary
Patrol Number One trickled into his still numb brain; and he wondered
for a moment what the Base Commander would think of their chances if he
knew. Then he took stock of his little command.

There was young Crosse, his face twitching nervously. There was Blake,
the tall, quiet bacteriologist; Lenkranz, the metals man; Hirooka,
the Nisei; Balistierri; Whitcomb, the photographer, with a battered
Hasselblad still dangling by its neck cord against his armored chest.
Swenson was still there, the big Swede crewman; and imperturbable
Sergeant Brian, who was now calmly cleaning the pneumatic gun's loading
mechanism. And, Helen, Bormann's skin bird, fluttering over the ration
cart, beneath which Bormann and Sewell lay in the mud.

"Crosse, Lenkranz, burial detail. Get going." It was Hague's first
order as Commander. He thought the two looked most woebegone of the
party, and figured digging might loosen their nerves.

Crosse stared at him, and then sat suddenly against a tree hole.

"I'm not going to dig. I'm not going to march. This is crazy. We're
going to get killed. I'll wait for it right here. Why do we keep
walking and walking when we're going to die anyway?" His rising voice
cracked, and he burst into hysterical laughter. Sergeant Brian rose
quietly from his gun cleaning, jerked Crosse to his feet, and slapped
him into quiet. Then he turned to Hague.

"Shall I take charge of the burial detail, sir?"

Hague nodded; and suddenly his long dislike of the iron-hard Sergeant
melted into warm liking and admiration. Brian was the man who'd get
them all through.

The Sergeant knotted his dark brows truculently at Hague. "And I don't
believe Crosse meant what he said. He's a very brave man. We all get a
little jumpy. But he's a good man, a good Rocketeer."

       *       *       *       *       *

Three markers beside the trail, and a pile of dumped equipment marked
the battle ground when the cart swung forward again. Hague had dropped
all the recording instruments, saving only Whitcomb's exposed films,
the rations, rifle ammunition, and logbooks that had been kept by
different members of the science section. At his command, Sergeant
Brian reluctantly smashed the pneumatic gun's firing mechanism, and
left the gun squatting on its tripod beside charger and shell belts.
With the lightened load, Hague figured three men could handle the cart,
and he took his place with Brian and Crosse in the harness. The others
no longer walked in the trail, but filtered between great root-flanges
and tree boles on either side, guiding themselves by the Sonar's hum.

They left no more trail markers, and Hague cautioned them against
making any unnecessary noise.

"No trail markers behind us. This mud is watery enough to hide
footprints in a few minutes. We're making no noise, and we'll drop no
more refuse. All they can hear will be the Sonar, and that won't carry
far."

On the seventy-first day of the march, Hague squatted, fell almost to
the ground, and grunted, "Take ten."

He stared at the stained, ragged scarecrows hunkered about him in
forest mud.

"Why do we do it?" he asked no one in particular. "Why do we keep
going, and going, and going? Why don't we just lie down and die? That
would be the easiest thing I could think of right now." He knew that
Rocket Service officers didn't talk that way, but he didn't feel like
an officer, just a tired, feverish, bone-weary man.

"Have we got a great glowing tradition to inspire us?" he snarled. "No,
we're just the lousy rocketeers that every other service arm plans to
absorb. We haven't a Grant or a John Paul Jones to provide an example
in a tough spot. The U.S. Rocket Service has nothing but the memory of
some ships that went out and never came back; and you can't make a
legend out of men who just plain vanish."

There was silence, and it looked as if the muddy figures were too
exhausted to reply. Then Sergeant Brian spoke.

"The Rocketeers have a legend, sir."

"What legend, Brian?" Hague snorted.

"Here is the legend, sir. 'George Easy Peter One'."

Hague laughed hollowly, but the Sergeant continued as if he hadn't
heard.

"Ground Expeditionary Patrol One--the outfit a planet couldn't lick.
Venus threw her grab bag at us, animals, swamps, poison plants,
starvation, fever, and we kept right on coming. She just made us
smarter, and tougher, and harder to beat. And we'll blast through these
lizard-men and the jungle, and march into Base like the whole U.S.
Armed Forces on review."

"Let's go," Hague called, and they staggered up again, nine gaunt
bundles of sodden, muddy rags, capped in trim black steel helmets with
cheek guards down. The others slipped off the trail, and Hague, Brian,
and Crosse pulled on the cart harness and lurched forward. The cart
wheel hub jammed against a tree bole, and as they strained blindly
ahead to free it, a horn note drifted from afar.

"Here they come again," Crosse groaned.

"They--won't be--up--with us--for days," Hague grunted, while he threw
his weight in jerks against the tow line. The cart lurched free with
a lunge, and all three shot forward and sprawled raging in the muddy
trail.

They sat wiping mud from their faces, when Brian stopped suddenly,
ripped off his helmet and threw it aside, then sat tensely forward in
an attitude of strained listening. Hague had time to wonder dully if
the man's brain had snapped, before he crawled to his feet.

"Shut up, and listen," Brian was snarling. "Hear it! Hear it! It's a
klaxon! Way off, about every two seconds!"

Hague tugged off his heavy helmet, and strained every nerve to listen.
Over the forest silence it came with pulse-like regularity, a tiny
whisper of sound.

He and Brian stared bright-eyed at each other, not quite daring to say
which they were thinking. Crosse got up and leaned like an empty sack
against the cartwheel with an inane questioning look.

"What is it?" When they stared at him without speaking, still listening
intently, "It's the Base. That's it, it's the Base!"

Something choked Hague's throat, then he was yelling and firing his
rifle. The rest came scuttling out of the forest shadow, faces breaking
into wild grins, and they joined Hague, the forest rocking with
gunfire. They moved forward, and Hirooka took up a thin chant:

    "Oooooooh, the Rocketeers
    have shaggy ears.
    They're dirty ----."

The rest of their lyrics wouldn't look well in print; but where the
Rocketeers have gone, on every frontier of space, the ribald song is
sung. The little file moved down the trail toward the klaxon sound.
Behind them, something moved in the gloom, resolved itself into a
reptile-headed, man-like thing, that reared a small wooden trumpet to
fit its mouth, a soft horn note floated clear; and other shapes became
visible, sprinting forward, flitting through the gloom....

       *       *       *       *       *

When a red light flashed over Chapman's desk, he flung down a sheaf of
papers and hurried down steel-walled corridors to the number one shaft.
A tiny elevator swept him to Odysseus' upper side, where a shallow pit
had been set in the ship's scarred skin, and a pneumatic gun installed.
Chapman hurried past the gun and crew to stand beside a listening
device. The four huge cones loomed dark against the clouds, the
operator in their center was a blob of shadow in the dawnlight, where
he huddled listening to a chanting murmur that came from his headset.
Blake came running onto the gundeck; Bjornson, and the staff officers
were all there.

"Cut it into the Address system," Chapman told the Listener operator
excitedly; and the faint sounds were amplified through the whole ship.
From humming Address amplifiers, the ribald words broke in a hoarse
melody.

    "The rocketeers have shaggy ears,
    They're dirty ----"

The rest described in vivid detail the prowess of rocketeers in general.

"How far are they?" Chapman demanded.

The operator pointed at a dial, fingered a knob that altered his
receiving cones split-seconds of angle. "They're about twenty-five
miles, sir."

Chapman turned to the officers gathered in an exultant circle behind
him.

"Branch, here's your chance for action. Take thirty men, our whippet
tank, and go out to them. Bjornson, get the 'copters aloft for air
cover."

Twenty minutes later, Chapman watched a column assemble beneath the
Odysseus' gleaming side, and march into the jungle, with the 'copters
buzzing west a moment later, like vindictive dragon flies.

Breakfast was brought to the men clustered at Warnings equipment, and
to Chapman at his post on the gundeck. The day ticked away, the parade
ground vanished in thickening clots of night; and a second dawn found
the watchers still at their posts, listening to queer sounds that
trickled from the speakers. The singing had stopped; but once they
heard a note that a horn might make, and several times gobbling yells
that didn't sound human. George One was fighting, they knew now. The
listeners picked up crackling of rifle fire, and when that died there
was silence.

The watchers heard a short cheer that died suddenly, as the relief
column and George One met; and they waited and watched. Branch, who
headed the relief column communicated with the mother ship by the
simple expedient of yelling, the sound being picked up by the listeners.

"They're coming in, Chapman. I'm coming behind to guard their rear.
They've been attacked by some kind of lizard-men. I'm not saying a
thing--see for yourself when they arrive."

Hours rolled past, while they speculated in low tones, the hush that
held the ship growing taut and strained.

"Surely Branch would have told us if anything was wrong, or if the
records were lost," Chapman barked angrily. "Why did he have to be so
damned melodramatic?"

"Look, there--through the trees. A helmet glinted!" The laconic
Bjornson had thrown dignity to the winds, and capered like a drunken
goat, as Rindell described it later.

Chapman stared down at the jungle edging the parade ground and caught a
movement.

A man with a rifle came through the fringe and stood eying the ship
in silence, and then came walking forward across the long, cindered
expanse. From this height, he looked to Chapman like a child's lead
soldier, a ragged, muddy, midget scarecrow. Another stir in the trees,
and one more man, skulking like an infantry-flanker with rifle at
ready. He, too, straightened and came walking quietly forward. A file
of three men came next, leaning into the harness of a little metal
cart that bumped drunkenly as they dragged it forward. An instant of
waiting, and two more men stole from the jungle, more like attacking
infantry than returning heroes. Chapman waited, and no more came. This
was all.

"My God, no wonder Branch wouldn't tell us. There were thirty-two of
them." Rindell's voice was choked.

"Yes, only seven." Chapman remembered his field glasses and focused
them on the seven approaching men. "Lieutenant Hague is the only
officer. And they're handing us the future of the U.S. Rocket Service
on that little metal cart."

The quiet shattered and a yelling horde of men poured from Odysseus'
hull and engulfed the tattered seven, sweeping around them, yelling,
cheering, and carrying them toward the mother ship.

Chapman looked a little awed as he turned to the officers behind him.
"Well they did it. We forward these records, and we've proven that we
can do the job." He broke into a grin. "What am I talking about? Of
course we did the job. We'll always do the job. We're the Rocketeers,
aren't we?"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ROCKETEERS HAVE SHAGGY EARS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
