ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Lord of the Silent Death, by Robert Moore
Williams

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Lord of the Silent Death

Author: Robert Moore Williams

Release Date: March 11, 2021 [eBook #64790]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LORD OF THE SILENT DEATH ***




                       LORD of the SILENT DEATH

                       by ROBERT MOORE WILLIAMS

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                          Comet December 40.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Death came out of a box and stalked through the streets of Chicago.

Samuel Morton found the box in Asia Minor, in a niche in the tomb of a
forgotten Sumerian king, and not being able to open it, brought it back
to this country with him. Morton was an archeologist, on the staff of
the Asia Museum, located in South Chicago.

After months of effort, he succeeded, one hot August afternoon, in
opening the box. But the death that lurked in it did not strike then.
It waited.

Morton was alone that night, in the basement of the museum,
trying to decipher the hieroglyphics engraved on the lid of the
box--hieroglyphics written in no known language--when the silence came.
The first sound to disappear was the rattle of the street cars on the
surface line a block distant.

Morton was too engrossed in his work to notice that he could no longer
hear the cars.

Then the soft rustle of the blower fan pushing cool air into the hot
basement went into silence.

He still didn't notice the cessation of sound, did not realize that
incredible death was creeping closer to him every second.

Even when the energetic tick of the alarm clock sitting on a mummy case
was no longer audible, Morton did not sense that death was near. He was
lost in his work.

But when he could no longer hear the scratch of his pen on the paper,
he realized that something was happening. He looked up.

Morton was a solidly built, craggy giant. His face burned a deep brown
by the sun of the Arabian desert, a shock of white hair that for days
was undisturbed by brush or comb, he sat in his chair, every sense
suddenly alert. His eyes raced over the room, seeking the cause of the
uncanny silence.

He saw nothing.

But he recognized the presence of danger and reached for the telephone.
It was the last move he ever made. As his fingers closed around the
instrument, the silence hit him.

It had the effect of a physical blow. The smack of a prizefighter's
fist would not have rocked him more. As he gasped one word into the
telephone, his body seemed to be lifted clear out of the chair. His
muscles, tensing involuntarily, hurled him upward, like a grotesque
jack-in-the-box that has been suddenly released. He hit the chair as he
fell, crashing it to the floor with him.

His body writhed, a slow, tortuous twisting. Muscles swelled in his
throat as he screamed in pain. But no sound came.

The threshing of his heavy body on the concrete floor produced no
sound. The scream was blotted into utter silence.

Before the muscular writhing had ceased, his flesh began to change
color. The tan of his face, stamped with lines of torture, became a
reddish pink. Thousands of microscopic pinpoints of color spread in a
creeping tide over his body.

The silence held. Viciously, as though making certain no more life was
left in his body, the silence held.

When it lifted, went into nothingness, vanished, not more than a minute
had passed.

But in that minute Samuel Morton had died.

The Lord of the Silent Death had emerged from the cell which had held
him imprisoned for ages.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Rocks" Malone--the name "Rocks" came from his calling--lived two
blocks from the Asian Museum. But that wasn't his fault. He would
have lived nearer if he could have found a room. In fact, for one
deliriously happy month, he had slept on a cot in the basement of the
museum. Then Sharp, the thin-faced business manager who had charge of
the property and the finances, had caught him and given him the bounce.

"Malone, get the hell out of here," Sharp said. "Of all the damned
fools we have around here, you are probably the worst. I should think
you would get enough archeology just by spending fourteen hours a day
here."

"Aw, hell, I'm not hurting anything. Why can't I sleep here if I want
to?" Rocks had answered.

"Because it is against the regulations, and you know it. Go on, now,
before I report you to the Board."

Grumbling, Rocks had taken his cot and left. And Sharp had reported him
to the board anyhow, but that august body, in view of his youth and
the pathetic interest he had in archeology, had not reprimanded him.
They were archeologists themselves and they knew how the science gets
into the blood and bones of a man. Secretly, they had rather approved
of Rocks trying to sleep in the basement, so he could be near his
beloved relics of dead and gone civilizations. They were grooming him
for a place with the next expedition. "As likely a lad as I have ever
seen," old Andreas McCumber had said about him. In his day McCumber
had dug into half the buried cities in Asia Minor and it was his boast
that he knew a man who had the makings of an archeologist when he
saw one. "Of course he's young yet. But a little seasoning will cure
that." Rocks was twenty-three, but to McCumber, who was past seventy,
twenty-three was only late boyhood. "Besides," McCumber had rumbled in
his beard at the board meeting. "Penny will--ah--comb my whiskers--if
she--ah--discovers that I have permitted him to sleep in the basement."

Penny was McCumber's grand-daughter.

But Rocks had already located a room about two blocks from the museum
and had moved in.

That was why the police found him so quickly.

It was an August night, as hot as hades, and Rocks was sleeping with
both feet practically out the window, to take advantage of the late
breeze. He awakened to the sound of his landlady's protesting voice.

"But I tell you, Officer, you can't want Mr. Malone. He's a fine boy
and I will vouch for him personally. I'm sure he hasn't done anything
wrong."

"I'm not saying he's done anything wrong, madam," a bass rumble
answered. "But the officer on the beat said he lived here."

A rap sounded on the door. Rocks took his feet out of the window and
said, "Come in."

A blue-coated figure thrust his head in. "You Malone?" he inquired.

"Yes. What's wrong?"

"We want you over at the Museum."

Rocks was already grabbing for his clothes, jerking them on over his
pajamas. "What's wrong? What's happened?"

The cop shook his head. He was still a little white around the gills.
"We don't know what's happened. The sawbones wasn't there when I left.
But we want you to identify a man."

"Why can't he identify himself?"

The officer wiped perspiration from his face. "Because he's dead."

"Dead!" The word leaped from Rocks' lips. The first shiver of fear
knifed through him. He was not yet wide awake and he hadn't fully
comprehended what the officer wanted. But that single word shocked him
to instant wakefulness.

In the basement of the museum they found three men talking earnestly
in a corner. They weren't in uniform but their bearing fairly shouted
"Detective!" They looked scared. Rocks didn't know it then, but these
three men belonged to the homicide squad. They were accustomed to
looking at violent death in all its forms. Stiffs didn't scare them.

But they _were_ scared.

They had the uneasy alertness of the man-hunter who senses danger.

His escort turned Rocks over to them.

"I'm Kennedy; homicide bureau," said one of them. He had a heavy,
impassive face and eyes that were drills of jet. "Sorry to bother you,
Malone. You work here?"

"I'm on the staff."

"Good. The doc is already here. We want you to identify a body, if you
can. Come this way."

Kennedy led Rocks to the large basement room, the other two
plain-clothesmen following behind.

This was the room where the specimens brought back from the four
corners of Asia were uncrated and cleaned and prepared for display
on the floors above. Loot from the tomb of forgotten kings, bits of
pottery from Ephesus, a winged bull carved out of the stone of Nineveh,
mummy cases from Egypt--for Egypt was included by the museum--beads
from the valley of the Tigris-Euphrates, big and little, the relics of
lost and dead centuries were piled here. Even in the daylight the place
was ghostly.

Photographers were popping flashlight bulbs and taking pictures of
the exact position of the body. As Rocks entered they took their last
picture and stood aside and the doctor from the coroner's office bent
over the body and began his examination.

Then Rocks saw the body on the floor. He recoiled. "My God! That's
Samuel Morton."

His respect for Morton amounted almost to reverence. Morton was a
world-wide figure in the field of archeology, and to Rocks Malone,
he was little short of a god. Rocks had looked up to this man, had
longed to be like him. On the next expedition, Rocks was to go along as
Morton's assistant.

Now Morton was dead.

"What--what happened?" Rocks whispered.

The doctor stood up. His face was ashen.

"That's what I would like to know--what happened. This man has been
dead less than an hour."

"At eleven-thirty Central phoned in there was a receiver off the hook
here and said the operator thought somebody had tried to call the
police," Kennedy interrupted.

"Heh?" the doctor queried. His professional aplomb had deserted him
completely. "The important point is: what was the cause of death? To my
knowledge there is no record in medical history of a death like this.
Look."

"I've already looked," Kennedy said, turning away. "Once is enough."

Rocks looked again at the solid, craggy face he had known so well. The
skin had always been tanned, but now it was red. Puffed and discolored.
And _red_--like a chunk of raw beefsteak, like the carcass of a skinned
animal. The first impression he got was that the skin had been removed.
But he bent over, fighting against the sickness in his stomach, and saw
that the skin had not been removed. It had been punctured, in literally
thousands of places. Morton's face looked like thousands of pins had
been stuck in it. When the pins had been removed, the blood oozed
through.

A later report by the medical examiner disclosed that there was not a
spot on Morton's body that was not full of microscopic holes--millions
of them. Even the soles of his feet, protected by his shoes, showed
the same horrible markings.

But it was the coat that held Rocks' eyes. Where the doctor had taken
hold of it, the cloth had crumbled. Rocks tested it. The cloth fell
away in his fingers, fell into a dark ash. The cloth looked all right,
until it was touched. Then it crumbled into a dust as fine as powder.

The hottest fire would not leave so fine an ash.

"What do you think killed him, Doc?" Kennedy asked.

The doctor brushed perspiration from his face. "Really, I could not
hazard an opinion. There is nothing like this in medical records. It's
appalling. I trust--ah--that it is not some new kind of plague. No,
it couldn't be that. No disease would destroy his clothing. I can't
even begin to guess what happened, but the body must be removed for a
complete examination."

Rocks was so sunk in grief that he scarcely noticed the men who lifted
all that was mortal of the old archeologist on to a stretcher.

Kennedy came to him and said sympathetically. "Don't take it so hard,
Malone. Morton, I guess, was a friend of yours."

Rocks told the detective what the archeologist had meant to him.
Kennedy's eyes softened. "I'm sorry, Malone. We'll do everything we can
to discover what happened, but frankly I don't know which way to turn.
I've been talking on the phone to some of the men who are in charge of
the museum. McCumber was one, Sharp was another. They're on their way
over here."

The detective hesitated. "Malone, maybe you can help us."

"I'll do anything I can."

"Good. When I talked to Mr. Sharp, he said, 'I knew something like this
was going to happen. I knew it!' When I asked him what he meant he said
something about a box that Morton had brought back with him from Asia."

"Box?" The touch of an eerie chill raced down Rocks' spine. "Yes.
There it is, sitting on the scale we use to weigh specimens."

The lid was open.

"He--he must have opened it this afternoon," Rocks said.

He wondered what Morton had found in that box. Treasure--or something
else? It was empty now, the lid back, the cunning combination lock
visible.

But what had been in the box they did not know, until Sharp got there
and told his story.


                              CHAPTER II

Sharp, the business manager, was a prim-faced nervous individual. He
had an eye tick. It was working overtime now. He spoke rapidly, the
words running over each other.

"Yes, yes, I'll tell you exactly what happened. It was horrible,
terrible." He mopped his face. "Mr. Morton had just succeeded in
opening this box when I entered."

"How long had the box been here?" Kennedy interrupted.

"I--ah--about three months have elapsed since Mr. Morton returned from
his last expedition. He brought it back with him."

"Three months to open it?" Kennedy said doubtfully. "Why didn't he use
a torch on it?"

"I think I can answer that," McCumber said. The old archeologist had
arrived a few minutes after the business manager. He had received the
news of the death of his associate calmly but it was obvious that he
was deeply affected. He and Morton had been fellow workers for more
than forty years. Now Morton was dead, and McCumber's sorrow was too
deep for expression. It didn't show on his face. But when he entered
the basement, he leaned rather heavily on his granddaughter's arm.
Penny, who always drove his car for him, had driven him down. Now she
stood, pale and silent, beside his chair.

"There were several reasons why we didn't use a cutting torch,"
McCumber said. "Foremost was the fact that, whatever the contents of
the box were, we did not wish to damage them. Secondly, we felt that
in time we would discover the secret of opening it. And in the third
place, force would have ruined the delicate hieroglyphics inscribed on
it. We especially did not want to do that."

The detective turned again to Sharp. "Will you tell us what was in the
box, sir?"

The business manager moistened his lips. A hush fell over the group.
The officer in uniform twisted uneasily. The two detectives tried to
show nothing, but then forced expressions showed the fear that gnawed
at them. Kennedy's black eyes were lances of apprehension.

Rocks Malone moved across the room and stood beside Penny, a gesture
purely protective. His mind was in a turmoil as he waited for Sharp to
speak. Was there a connection between that box and Morton's death? What
kind of a connection? His eyes strayed toward it. Under the lights he
could see the hieroglyphics delicately carved on it.

What was the message that the unknown writer had tried to convey
with those wavy lines? Had he cut a warning sign, a--Hands
Off--Danger--symbol to warn against opening it? Had--But Sharp was
speaking.

"I had come down to the basement to discuss with Mr. Morton certain
items in the budget for his next expedition. He had just opened the
box. He said, 'Oh, I say, Sharp, come here, will you? I want you to
tell me what you see in this box.'

"To be frank, I was curious about the contents myself. I, and I
imagine everyone connected with the museum, had been of the opinion
that perhaps the box contained treasure, possibly jewels, which in the
present state of our finances, would be of great help to us."

Sharp hesitated, seeking words. From the night came the rattle of
a street car and the clang of the motor-man's bell. The blower fan
rustled as it pushed air into the basement. On the mummy case the
alarm clock--set to remind Morton when it was time to quit work and go
home--ticked noisily.

"What was in it?" Kennedy husked.

Sharp took a deep breath. "At first, I saw nothing, and the immediate
impression I gained was that it was empty. Then, as I bent over to peer
into the box, I caught a glimpse of its contents."

Everyone in the room leaned forward as Sharp hesitated. He said,

"I don't know what that thing in the box was. I can't ever hazard a
guess. But a beam of light leaped at me from the box, and the light
originated at a spot that was several inches above the bottom. In other
words, _it came from nothingness_.

"As I straightened up, the light vanished. Morton said, 'Did you see
that damned thing?' I asked him what it was. He didn't know but he
seemed puzzled and perturbed and he asked me to look again.

"Then I began to see more clearly. There was something in the box,
_something that was almost invisible_."

"Invisible?" Kennedy breathed huskily.

"Yes. Almost invisible. From certain positions we could see the
contents of the receptacle--a smoky, misty mass. That's the only way I
can describe it. A smoky mass. It was unreal, and just trying to look
at it strained the eyes."

"What happened then?" Kennedy said.

"Morton thrust his hand into the box. _And his hand disappeared!_"

"What!"

"His fingers, up to the knuckles, simply disappeared. No, they weren't
cut off. The effect was similar to thrusting the hand into a basin
of murky water. Morton instantly jerked his hand out, and it was
uninjured, except that the fingers were stained a faint red. The point
is--there was something in the box that was almost invisible, and an
object thrust into it was rendered invisible, too.

"Morton was tremendously puzzled. I can't recall his exact words,
but he seemed to be of the opinion that the contents of the box were
extra-dimensional."

"Extra-dimensional?" Kennedy interrogated.

"Something like that," Sharp admitted. "Oh I know it sounds utterly
fantastic. I was of the opinion that Morton did not know what he was
talking about, but later events showed me that I was wrong."

"What happened next?" the detective queried.

"This happened," Sharp answered. The man was trembling. The
handkerchief with which he tried to mop his face fluttered in an
unsteady hand.

"_Either something came out of that box, or something came through that
box and escaped into the basement!_"

Sharp's eyes went over the room, jerking from object to object like
a man who suspects the presence of an incredible enemy and is warily
watching for that enemy to strike.

The action sent cold chills up Rocks Malone's back. Something had come
out of that box. It might still be here in the museum. Sharp thought it
might be. He was looking for it.

"Through the box?" McCumber spoke. "I don't understand. How could
anything come through it?"

"I don't understand either," the business manager answered. "I'm only
telling you what Morton thought. He said the box might be a gateway
between this world and a higher dimensional world. If the box is such a
gateway, then something came through it. If it is not a gateway, then
something came out of the box and escaped into the basement."

His eyes ran from face to face of his hearers.

"How do you know something came out?" McCumber persisted. He seemed to
have taken over the questioning from Kennedy.

"Because I saw it," Sharp answered.

In the silence of the basement Rocks could hear several men breathing
heavily.

"It lifted up, out of the box," Sharp continued. "It was a mass of
grayish smoke, of shifting planes and impossible angles. It rose
straight up and seemed to pause in the air. While it hung in the
air--and I cannot begin to suggest an explanation for this--I suddenly
seemed to lose my hearing. I couldn't hear a sound. There was utter,
complete silence. It was the oddest sensation I have ever experienced."

Again the handkerchief wiped sweat from his face.

"Then--like a finger snap--the thing vanished. It disappeared into thin
air. And when it vanished, I recovered from my deafness."

Rocks felt Penny's fingers searching for his hand. Her hand slid into
his. She was trembling.

The detectives were pale, their faces bloodless. How much they had
really understood of Sharp's description was open to doubt. Only a
mathematical physicist could have grasped all the possibilities he had
opened, and the cops weren't physicists. But they were alert. One had
half-drawn his run. They were warily looking around the room.

"What did you do then?" McCumber persisted.

"We naturally spent some time searching the basement. When we found
nothing, I began to suspect we were the victims of an illusion, that
nothing had really come out of the box, that our imaginations were
playing us tricks. Consequently, since it was already late in the
afternoon, I departed. I thought nothing more of the matter until the
police called me and told me that a man was dead here. Then I instantly
realized that something had come out of the box, something utterly
foreign to the science of our present day, something of which we have
no knowledge, but which may be here now, watching us, waiting to pounce
on its next victim--"

He subsided, and Kennedy, looking closely at him, shoved him a chair.
"Here, sir. You had better sit down."

Sharp almost collapsed. "Thanks," he muttered.

"One further question," McCumber said. "Where was the box sitting when
Morton opened it?"

"Why--" Sharp looked startled. "On that heavy table." He pointed to a
table across the room.

"But it's on the scales now," McCumber said, nodding his head toward it.

"Yes, it is," Sharp answered. "Mr. Morton must have moved it after I
left."

McCumber turned to the detectives. "Gentlemen, if I may suggest it, I
think it would be wise to search the museum."

The detectives looked like they didn't enjoy the task, but they went
about it efficiently, guns drawn. The others remained in the basement.
Sharp kept up a running fire of nervous conversation, to which McCumber
paid little attention. The old archeologist seemed to be lost in
thought.

Kennedy returned. The detective was very pale. "We didn't find
anything," he said. "We still don't know whether it's here or not. But
we can't take a chance of that thing getting loose. We'll stay here, as
a guard." He looked sharply at McCumber and the business manager. "If I
may suggest it, this has been quite a strain on you. Perhaps it would
be best if you went home and rested. However if someone who is familiar
with the museum will stay--"

"I'll stay," said Rocks.

"No," Penny protested. "If that thing should attack you--"

Over her protests, Rocks stayed. However he walked out to the car with
them. Sharp came out of the museum with them, but he had his own car,
and drove off immediately.

McCumber settled himself in the seat, and Penny, still protesting, slid
under the wheel.

"What do you think, sir?" Rocks queried. "Do you have any suggestions
about looking for that--thing?"

"I'm afraid I don't, lad," the old man answered. "Nothing like it
has ever been seen before." He reached into his pocket for his pipe.
His questing fingers brought from the pocket not only the pipe but a
spherical piece of glass that looked like a child's marble. He held it
under the dash lamp. "A marble? Wonder where I picked that up?" Then he
dropped it back into his pocket as he explored for his tobacco. "This
much I can say, lad. Whatever it was that came out of that box, the
museum, in a sense, is responsible. We brought the damned thing to this
country. We've got to capture or destroy it before it does any more
damage. If such a thing should escape into the city, the results might
be terrible. I'll be down early in the morning, lad. I hate to go off
like this, but the old body won't take punishment like it once would.
You be careful."

"I will, sir."

"You darned well better be," said Penny, as she slipped the car into
gear.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rocks returned to the museum. With Kennedy and the other detectives he
again made a complete search of the building. The museum was filled
with nooks and crannies where anything might hide. They found nothing.

They were again in the basement when the telephone on the main floor
started ringing.

Who would be calling at this time of the night, Rocks wondered as he
raced upward to answer it. Very few people knew the number.

He jerked the phone from its hook, and the voice in his ears almost
took his breath away. It was Penny. She was screaming.

"Rocks, please come quickly. That terrible thing is here. It's got
grandfather. Hurry, please--"

He waited to hear no more.

"Come on," he yelled to the detectives. "That damned thing is loose
again."

Sirens screamed in the night as the squad car raced to the home of
Andreas McCumber. Rocks rode in the seat beside Kennedy, and urged the
detective to drive faster.

"I'm doing seventy now," Kennedy grated.

"Then do eighty," Rocks answered. Blood was running down his chin
where he had bitten his lips. In his mind was the single thought: has
something happened to Penny?


                              CHAPTER III

Penny's parents were dead. She lived with her grandfather, in a huge
old brick house on a side street.

They found her lying at the foot of the front steps. Rocks' heart
leaped into his mouth when he saw the white form lying there, crumpled
and twisted, in the rays from the light burning over the front door.
Until that moment he had not fully known how much she meant to him.

"Penny," he whispered.

Had the same horrible death struck at her? Had she tried to flee only
to find death racing after her, death coming faster than she could run?

He was trembling as he knelt beside her.

Then--she stirred in his arms. Her dress did not fall into dust at his
touch, as Morton's clothing had. And her skin was white, not a hideous
blotched red. Death had passed her by.

"Oh, Rocks," she whispered. "It was awful--"

Kennedy and his two men paused only long enough to make certain Penny
was not injured. Then they went on into the house, and Rocks, even in
the pressure of that moment, found time to admire their courage. Good
boys, those cops were. They knew they might find something inside that
house against which their guns would prove useless. But they drew the
guns, and went in.

"Are you all right?" Rocks whispered.

"I--I think so. After I called you, I ran outside to call for help and
I slipped and fell down the steps."

He picked her up and carried her inside, laid her on a divan. He did
not ask about her grandfather. He could hear the detectives on the
floor above. They had stopped racing through the house, jerking open
doors. They were all gathered in one room and they weren't saying much.

Then Kennedy came down the stairs, with one of his men. "Malone," he
called softly.

"Here," Rocks answered. Kennedy came in. His eyes were black agates in
a mask of dough. He slipped his gun back into its holster and said to
the man who followed him, "You stay here with the girl. Malone, will
you come upstairs with me?"

Rocks nodded. The detective led the way upstairs.

McCumber lay on the floor. The skin of his face was a blotch of red.
His clothing had fallen away into dust. He had been working at his
desk. When death struck him he had fallen to the floor.

Kennedy took a sheet from the bed and placed it over the still form.

Penny, very pale but very resolute, came into the room.

"Are you strong enough to tell us what happened?" Kennedy asked gently.

"I came in to kiss him goodnight," she answered. "He was lying there on
the floor. I started to run to the telephone--then I heard something."
She shuddered. "It was--I didn't hear anything. You can't hear silence,
I suppose. But I did hear it. My feet didn't make any sound on the
floor. I know I screamed, but I couldn't ever hear the sound of my own
voice. I ran to call the museum, then I ran outside to call for help."

"Did you see anything in the room?"

"No. The desk light was burning and most of the room was in shadows,
but if anything was here, I didn't see it. But--" she paused.

"What is it, miss?" Kennedy inquired gently.

"It isn't anything I'm sure of," she answered. "But I think that thing
followed us home from the museum. I had the feeling that we were being
followed."

"Did you see anything following you?"

She shook her head. "It was just an impression, a feeling."

"You had better go lie down," said Rocks. "We'll take care of
everything." He looked at Kennedy. "Can she have a man to be on guard
outside her door?"

"She sure can. I'll call headquarters and get a special detail here at
once." Gently Rocks led her to her room. Better than anyone else, he
knew how impossible it was to put into words anything that would make
her feel better. Only time could do that. And now that the terrible
death had struck twice, he knew that Penny might be in danger. No one
could tell where it would strike again. Or why.

It was a death that came in silence. It came out of nowhere, struck,
and passed back into nowhere, leaving no clues behind it. It had come
out of a metal box found in the tomb of a king forgotten for six
thousand years. It was older than the king. It was older than history.
It came out of the black past of the planet with horrible, monstrous
death. Sharp had seen it--a creature of planes and angles, flashing
lights, a creature that disappeared at will, and reappeared elsewhere.
It had been here in this home, and had struck down a man. It might be
here still, watching, waiting.

Penny cried as she lay on her bed and wiped the tears away, and tried
to think. How had it entered the house? The doors had been locked.
Of course it could have secured entrance through an open window, but
how had it passed so unerringly through the rooms, seeking out her
grandfather? Why had it killed him? Did he threaten its existence?

Penny tried to think, and tried not to.

Rocks talked to Kennedy. The burly detective said, "If this was an
ordinary murder, I would know how to handle it. The first thing we
always look for is the motive. When we find that, we've got the killer.
But there's no motive here--there's not anything. Frankly, Malone,
I'm up a tree. We've got to find that thing, and destroy it, quickly.
Supposing it should start wandering loose through the streets of
Chicago--" The detective shuddered. "Malone, if you have any ideas,
let's have them. I admit I don't know what to do."

Rocks had been thinking too. "This thing came out of that box back in
the museum. If the secret of controlling it is anywhere, it's written
on the lid of that box." He gritted his teeth. "I don't think we have a
chance in a million of cracking that language, but right now it's the
only thing I see to try."

"We'll go back to the museum," said Kennedy. "I can't help with the
language, but I want another look around that place."

The authorities responsible in cases of sudden death had already
arrived at the McCumber home. Kennedy left a special detail to guard
Penny. He and Rocks went back to the museum.

Rocks went to work. He began to try to crack the hieroglyphics written
on the lid of the box. That his task was all but impossible, he well
knew.

He could read Sanskrit, Babylonian cuneiform, and Egyptian picture
writing with fair readiness. He could translate ancient Hebrew and
ancient Greek. An archeologist had to know these languages.

He thought the writing on the box might be in one of these languages.

He began with Morton's notes.

Then the telephone rang again. Kennedy went to answer it. He came back
very excited.

"That was the girl--Penny," he said. "She may have something. She
described a piece of round glass and said her grandfather had found it
in his pocket tonight as he left the museum. She wanted to know if we
had found it. I didn't. Did you?"

"No," Rocks answered. "But I can't see how it is important."

"Nor can I," Kennedy answered. "But it might be. I'll call and see if
it has been found. She also mentioned another thing, and this, I think,
is really important."

"What was it?"

"She said her grandfather was writing at his desk when he was killed.
The piece of paper on which he was writing was under a blotter and we
missed it. She found it. The old man had written a single question on
it."

Rocks had risen from his chair. Here, he realized, might be a clue that
would lead them to the capture of the incredible creature that was
loose within the city. "What was the question?"

"'Why did Morton weigh the box a second time?'" Kennedy said.

"Why did he--" Rocks sat down again. His eyes went across the room to
the box. It was sitting on the scales where Morton had placed it.

"It's routine here," Rocks said slowly, "to weigh all specimens as soon
as they are brought in. Many statuettes, etc., were constructed as
hiding places for gems. We weigh them, compute their specific gravity,
and thus determine if they contain a hollow place that might be worth
investigating."

His eyes lit up. "Morton weighed that box before it was opened. He
opened it, and something came out of it. But, from Sharp's description,
they were in doubt as to whether something had really come out of the
box. There was one way to prove something had come out of it--weigh it
again and check its present weight with its weight when it was brought
in."

Rocks leaped across the room to the scales, checked the weight of the
box. It weighed 121 pounds. Quickly he found Morton's notes and located
the weight of the box when it was first brought to the museum.

"Before it was opened it weighed an even 130 pounds," he said. "Now it
only weighs 121. That proves that something came out of it."

Kennedy whistled. "Nine pounds of sudden death. Well, we don't need
any proof to know that something came out of that box. We've got two
dead men to prove it. Look," the detective finished, "I'm going back to
McCumber's residence and see if I can locate that piece of glass. You
keep trying to crack that language."

He went out of the room on the run. The motor of the squad car howled
to sudden life outside as the detective left.

Rocks expected Kennedy to return. But he didn't come back that night.
He called instead. "I'm at the undertaker's. They didn't find any piece
of red glass. I've been over McCumber's house with a magnifying glass.
It isn't there. Either the thing that killed him destroyed it, or
somebody picked it up. You getting anywhere with that language?"

"No," Rocks groaned.

"Well, keep trying. My hunch is that everything depends on whether or
not you solve those hieroglyphics. I've got some checking to do on this
end. I'll call you if anything turns up." The detective hung up.

Rocks went back to the basement. His job was to crack the language. And
what a job that was!

The night ended. Dawn came. The morning was passing. Rocks worked on.

The museum was closed that day. The police were not willing to take a
chance on some visitor stumbling into a death that came in silence. Nor
was the museum itself. Sharp called in and gave explicit orders on
that point.

Rocks drank strong coffee, and worked, and failed. The language was not
similar to cuneiform. It was not like any language he knew. Every time
he realized that fact, he shivered. It had either been invented by a
people so long lost in the past that history had no record of them, or
it didn't belong on earth at all.

Yet someone, somewhere, had constructed that box, and had used it to
safeguard something. Perhaps they had used it as a prison, to cage
a creature they could not control, an entity unknown to the science
of the present. Perhaps later peoples had created legends about
it--Pandora's Box. Perhaps this was really Pandora's Box that Morton
had brought back from Asia Minor.

The creature had waited in that box for uncounted centuries. Now a new
race had opened the door of his prison.

Now the Lord of the Silent Death was free again.

Rocks Malone kept wondering when and where he would strike.

During the whole day there was not even a whisper of the incredible
silence in which men's lives were blotted out.

But when the second night came--


                              CHAPTER IV

At nine o'clock that night Rocks was ready to drop from exhaustion. He
was not only so tired that the hieroglyphics blurred before his eyes,
but he had failed. That hurt worse than anything else. Everything
depended on his cracking the lost language, and he had failed.

At nine o'clock it happened.

There were three officers on duty at the museum. They had been sent
there as a guard detail and they had brought in a radio so they could
listen to the police calls. They had the radio in a room on the first
floor, so it would not disturb Rocks.

At nine o'clock one of them came stumbling downstairs. His face was
ashen. "Hell's broken loose," he said tersely. "It's coming in over the
radio. Come on upstairs if you want to listen. You might as well forget
that language now."

Over and over again the announcer was droning. "Calling all
cars--Calling all cars--Drop everything and be on the alert. Tragedy in
burlesque showhouse. Over three hundred people dead. Cause of death not
known. Manager went in to investigate sudden silence. Found audience
and cast of show dead. Bodies livid color, as if they had been burned.
Clothing falls to ashes when touched. Sergeant Kennedy of the homicide
division suggests there is a definite connection between the death of
these people and the death of the two Asian Museum archeologists last
night. Be on the alert. Take over main intersections and prevent panic.
Story already broken in general radio news flash. Cordon being thrown
around the theater area. All special details canceled, all squad cars
call your stations for definite orders--Be on the alert--Calling all
cars--"

Death was walking through Chicago, a horrible, incredible form of death.

Rocks Malone stood without moving, listening to the operator repeat his
message. He could scarcely conceive the meaning of the words. "Over
three hundred people dead--" Dim pictures flashed to his mind. Out of
nowhere, out of nothingness, silence had come. Three hundred people
had died. Before they knew what struck them, death had washed over
them. Millions of microscopic needles had plunged through their bodies,
points of agonizing pain. Then death--

Jerkily, the telephone rang. One of the officers grabbed it. He
listened, said "Okay," huskily, and turned to his fellows.

"Station calling. We're to report back there immediately for emergency
duty. They're calling us off here. Come on."

The radio was still droning as they went out.

The telephone rang again. It was Penny this time.

"I'm coming down there," she said, "I'm scared. I'm coming down there
with you."

"Stay away from here!" Rocks shouted. But she had already hung up.
Desperately, he tried to call her back. There was no answer. She had
already left. She was driving toward the museum, driving through a
night in which death lurked.

Rocks groaned. He went back to the basement. There was nothing he could
do. Nothing! The coffee pot was bubbling on its burner. He poured
himself a cup of the scalding brew. It burned his throat but it cleared
his head.

He went back to work. The language was out. He couldn't crack it. He
didn't even have time to try to crack it any more. But there were
Morton's notes. He hadn't studied them thoroughly. He had read only
those portions of the notes that dealt with the language. He began
to go over them again, starting with the section that dealt with the
discovery of the box.

Jan. 10, 1940--Morton had written--Discovered today what is
unquestionably the tomb of a Sumerian king. Located in a hillside. Cut
out of solid rock. Landslide centuries ago had covered entrance. But
even more important, in my opinion, than the tomb is the discovery of
the strange metal box that we found in a niche at the back. We are
unable to determine the metal of which the box is constructed. It is
covered with mould but shows no sign of rust or corrosion, which is
exceedingly unusual, for this tomb dates back into the past for at
least six thousand years.

"Jan. 12, 1940. Box very heavy--must weigh more than a hundred pounds.
Frankly, aside from its archeological interest, I am curious to know
the contents of this box. There is a possibility of gold or gems. Guess
I'm human after all, to be thinking about wealth. Am writing full
details to the museum.

"Jan. 15, 1940. Unable to open box. Must have cunning combination
lock. Also unable to decipher inscription on it. Don't know this form
of writing. No record of it anywhere. This is exceedingly unusual. A
completely forgotten language rediscovered."

Rocks Malone went through the notes, reading swiftly, searching, hoping
for a clue. Outside in the night death was stalking. And there was a
possibility that the clue to the death lay here, in the notes of the
dead archeologist.

Penny came in. He went to meet her. She flew to his arms. "It's awful
outside," she whispered. "Thousands of people must have heard the news
broadcast. Half of them are trying to get to the theater where all
those people were killed. The others are trying to get away. Oh, Rocks,
have you discovered anything."

He shook his head. She looked again at his unshaven, haggard face, and
said nothing.

He went back to the notes Morton had left. With Penny helping, he went
through them, down to the last page. "It's no use," he groaned. "Morton
didn't know anything about the thing that was in that damned box."

Then he turned the last page. Morton had written that page only
yesterday, the day he died.

"Sept. 21, 1940. Succeeded in opening the box today. As I suspected it
was closed by a combination lock. Deucedly clever thing, that lock.
Not like any lock in use today. Patent rights on it might provide the
museum with some of the cash it so badly needs.

"To my great astonishment, and regret, when I opened the box, I found
it empty."

Rocks Malone started at the words Morton had written. Penny had been
reading over her shoulder. He heard her catch her breath.

EMPTY! The single word seemed to leap out at him. How on earth could
Morton make a mistake like that!

There was another line of writing. "Weighed box. Find that it weighs
nine pounds less than it did when I brought it here."

In the fleeting flash of a second, Rocks saw the whole picture. Or
almost all of it. There were parts that needed clearing up. But he knew
at last the real significance of the fact that Morton had weighed the
box a second time.

"There's somebody coming!" Penny whispered.

A step had sounded on the stairs outside the room. The door opened.
Sharp entered.

He had a traveling bag with him.

Rocks shoved the last page of Morton's notes out of sight, got to his
feet. "Hello," he said. "Have you heard the radio?"

"I'll say I have," the business manager answered. "That's why I've got
this bag along. I'm getting away from here while I have a chance. It's
terrible--what happened to all those people at the theater. For all I
know, it might happen to me next. Have you," he paused, "have you found
anything that might--might lead to the capture of that horrible beast?
That's why I stopped here, before I left town."

"No," Rocks answered. He walked across the basement toward the business
manager. He was ten feet away, he was five feet away. He stopped. "One
thing we have discovered. Morton's notes. He said in his notes that
when he opened the box he found it empty. What do you suppose he meant
by that?"

Sharp looked perplexed. "Why, I have no idea. Perhaps he decided that
what we saw was an illusion after all."

"I think not," Rocks contradicted. "He would certainly have mentioned
any creature such as you described if he had found such a thing in
the box. No, I think he meant exactly what he said. When he opened
the box, it was empty. That surprised him greatly. It also made him
suspicious. So he weighed it, to determine if somebody had already
opened it and removed its contents. _What did you find in that box,
Sharp!_"

His words were hard and flat. There was no mistaking their challenge.

Behind him he heard Penny whisper. "Oh, Rocks--"

He knew he had made a mistake. He should have waited, let the law
handle the situation, let men trained for the task do the job. But
Morton had been his friend. And so had McCumber. And Morton and
McCumber were dead. And Rocks Malone was not a man to wait for someone
else to do what he considered his job.

Sharp stood without moving, his close-set eyes drilling into the young
archeologist facing him. A second ticked into nothingness, and another,
and another. He was estimating the situation, considering the odds and
the chances.

"I'm waiting," Rocks said grimly.

"All right, snoopy," Sharp snarled. "This is what I found in it."

[Illustration: _"All right, snoopie, here it is." Sharp lifted a
strange implement from his bag and pointed it. "Duck," Penny shouted,
"That's it!"_]

He jerked his bag open. His hand dived into it. It came out of the bag
with the strangest looking instrument Rocks had ever seen. Constructed
of pale silvery metal, fitted with a series of faceted lenses, it
glinted evilly under the lights.

Because of the very nature of the instrument, Sharp handled it
clumsily. But there was no mistaking its purpose. He brought it up.
Penny screamed.

Rocks stepped forward. His left hand flicked out. All the weight of his
body was behind that blow. He drove it straight at Sharp's chin. It
would have made Joe Louis bat his expressionless eyes. It would have
knocked Sharp's head almost off his shoulders--if it had landed.

That was the trouble. It didn't land. Sharp saw it coming. He ducked
down and to one side, fumbling with the instrument he had taken from
his bag. The fist skidded across the top of his head. It sent him
staggering backward.

"The next time," Rocks gritted. "I won't miss. I'll knock your damned
head off, you dirty murderer." He charged.

Sharp brought the instrument up. Pale, scarcely visible flame lanced
from it, like a heat wave moving through air. It spurted forward,
soundlessly. As it leaped it seemed to absorb, to blot out all sound.
There was a sudden heavy silence in the museum basement, the sort of
silence that is so real it registers on the ear drums.

Rocks saw the instrument coming up. He kicked himself to one side, in
a dancing step. The fringe of lambent flame barely touched him. But
that touch sent needles of agony through his body, sucked the life out
of him, turned his muscles into lumps of lead, threw him off balance,
so that his charge, instead of striking Sharp, barely grazed him. His
arms closed around the business manager's body. To keep himself from
falling, Rocks clinched.

They wrestled. Sharp could not use the instrument. Rocks was so groggy
he could barely hold on. Sharp dug into him with his elbows, kicked
viciously at his shins.

If he could only hold on, Rocks thought. The agony was lessening. The
groggy shadows were going from his mind. If he could only hold on for
another minute.

He was holding on. He was winning. Soft living had made a weakling of
Sharp. He would be no match for the rugged, youthful muscles of Rocks
Malone, in a fair fight.

Then Sharp struck upward. His fist hit Rocks in the chin. Malone sagged
downward. Shaking his head, he grabbed at Sharp again. And missed. And
fell to the floor. Before he could move, Sharp had leaped around a
table. He had brought the instrument up.

"All right," he husked. "You asked for it, with your snooping. You're
going to get it. You and this girl."

Rocks staggered to his feet. He leaned against the edge of the table,
panting, fighting for breath and strength. Sharp was across the table
from him. He was aiming the instrument.

This time there would be no escaping it. It would point at him and
those almost invisible tongues of light would flash out, the deadly
silence would smash all sound into nothingness, and millions of
microscopic needles would tear through his flesh.

Sharp fumbled for the firing button.

Penny, crouched on the other side of the room, grabbed the handiest
object she could find, and threw it. It was the alarm clock. It struck
Sharp full in the face, and the alarm, jarred by the impact, went off.

Probably the clang of the alarm bell started Sharp as much as the
impact of the clock. Certainly it did not hit him hard enough to harm
him. But it did startle him, scare him. He reeled backward.

Rocks cleared the table with a single leap. He went up into the air
like a kangaroo and leaped, feet foremost, at Sharp. His feet struck
the business manager full in the stomach. Sharp doubled up like a
jackknife, and went to the floor. Rocks fell on top of him. He struck
viciously with his fists. Sharp cried in pain and Rocks struck harder.
The man was down, but he wasn't out. Rocks drew back his fist for the
final blow.

It never landed. Down over his shoulder the barrel of a gun flashed.
Where it had come from, Rocks did not know. It struck the business
manager across the skull.

His head popped like the breaking of a rotten egg. He went limp.

Rocks looked up. Kennedy stood there. He was holding the pistol with
which he had struck Sharp, in his hand. He looked to see if he would
need to use it again. He saw he wouldn't.

He whirled the gun around on its trigger guard.

"Damn me for a fool," he said. "I could kick myself from here to the
Loop and back again. I missed a trick and it cost three hundred people
their lives."

"What trick?" Rocks gasped.

"I should have known this gazabo was lying," Kennedy snarled. "I should
have known his long cock and bull story about some incredible creature
coming out of that box was too fantastic for belief. I should have
known he was lying, out damn it, the sight of Morton's body so addled
my wits that I was willing to believe the story Sharp told. Oh, he
was smooth enough about it. He knew how the weapon he found killed.
He knew what it did to Morton's body, and he had to have a fantastic
story to account for the way Morton looked. He solved the secret of
that box soon after it was brought here. He had a reason for it too.
He had been playing the market and he was down on his uppers. If there
was a treasure in that box, he wanted first crack at it. He didn't
find any treasure in it. Instead he found some kind of a damned weapon
in it that came from God alone knows where. When he found Morton had
opened the box and was about to catch up with him by weighing the box,
he took the obvious out--by killing Morton, using the weapon he had
found in the box. He killed McCumber because the old man knew there
was something fishy about the box being on the scales. So he killed
McCumber--to shut him up."

"But those people in the theater?" Rocks whispered.

Kennedy exploded. "He needed money, needed it bad. I dug this all
up in my investigation today. He was trying to sell the weapon
he had discovered to the agents of a foreign power. They wanted
a demonstration before they would pay off. So he gave them a
demonstration. He showed them how efficient a weapon he had for
sale--by killing all the people in a theater."

The detective was furiously angry. "And I let myself get taken in by a
story of a monster."

Rocks had already picked up the instrument Sharp had found in that
box. He was studying it, looking it over. The principle on which
it operated, he couldn't begin to guess, but he saw one thing that
startled him enormously. He showed it to the detective.

"Great Jehosophat!" Kennedy gasped. "A place for six fingers. Whoever
built that damned thing had six fingers."

The Lord of the Silent Death was not an extra-dimensional monster. It
was a weapon that killed in utter silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

The instrument that came out of the box from the tomb of the forgotten
Sumerian King is now in Washington, in the secret vaults of the War
Department. The experts are studying it, trying to fathom how it works.
They have begun to get hints of the principle involved. Only hints, but
something to go on. They have discovered that it kills in two ways.
The first, and obvious way, is by pointing it directly at its victim.
At the theatre he had sprayed the power, full on, across the audience,
then across the ensemble on the stage, then as he went out the back had
caught all others.

The second way is worse. In Sharp's bag was found a sack of small round
objects that look like marbles. All the owner of the weapon needs to do
to kill an enemy is to drop one of those bits of glass in the enemy's
pocket. Then he can go off several miles and start the weapon. The
force it generates is concentrated in the bit of glass, and the silence
is instantly generated, the bit of glass being destroyed in the process.

That was the method Sharp used to kill McCumber. As they left the
museum, Sharp dropped one of the bits of glass in the pocket of the
old archeologist's coat. McCumber had found it, but had attached no
significance to it.

The experts hope that the War Department of this country will never
need such a weapon. But if it does, it will have it.

But the thing that plagues the experts, that frets the archeologists,
that has caused Rocks Malone to tear his hair, is the fact that the
weapon was designed to be used by a creature who had six fingers.
Not five fingers. Six. And the archeologists are having drizzling
fits trying to decide whether there was once a race of six-fingered
creatures here on earth, a race that reached tremendous scientific
heights, and vanished.

Or was earth once visited by creatures out of space, who left a weapon
behind them?

Nobody knows. Possibly nobody will ever know.

But Rocks Malone is preparing to leave for Asia Minor, to dig in the
ruins of lost and gone civilizations, searching for another clue to the
identity of the lost race.

Penny is going with him.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LORD OF THE SILENT DEATH ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
