ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Message from Venus, by R. R. Winterbotham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Message from Venus

Author: R. R. Winterbotham

Release Date: March 15, 2021 [eBook #64826]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MESSAGE FROM VENUS ***




                          MESSAGE from VENUS

                         by R. R. WINTERBOTHAM

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                           Comet January 41.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The Venusians had one admirable characteristic. When they set out to
do a thing, nothing could stop them. Captain Paul Bonnet had said
something to this effect to Major Rogers and it made the old man so
angry that he almost court-martialed the youth.

"We're going to stop them!" the major roared.

Captain Bonnet glanced up into the sky, already dark with the ballooned
bodies of the Venusian bipeds. The creatures looked like huge sausages,
except that there was something deadly about them.

On the approaches to Outpost 53, sweating men labored on the caissons
of twelve batteries of Amorg twenty-fives, pouring atomic destruction
into a solidly packed mass of Venusians advancing through the wire
entanglements.

Captain Bonnet nodded to the major. "You're right, sir!" He turned to
the members of his crew who were manning an anti-rocket gun. "Did you
hear that? Knock 'em out of the sky!"

The gun coughed Amorg vapor into the sky. A gaping hole appeared
directly overhead where the bodies of at least a hundred Venusians were
disintegrated. Before the gun could be recharged the hole disappeared,
filled by more bulging Venusians.

Lieutenant Bill Riley wiped the sweat from his face with his soiled
coat sleeve.

"It's like bailing a boat with a sieve!" he said.

Major Rogers looked as though he were going to have apoplexy.

"We'll get 'em," Captain Bonnet announced, winking at his lieutenant.

Lieutenant Riley grinned. There was a great deal in common between
the captain and the lieutenant, besides the fact that they were both
officers of the same space ship--_The Piece of Sky_--which now lay
ruined on the landing field, its plates dissolved by acid poured from
the sky by the Venusians.

Both officers were young and husky. Both had seen action on the Martian
canals and this wasn't the first meeting they had had with Venusians.

"If they had any sense they'd know they were licked," the captain
added, casting his steely blue eyes at the entanglements. The place was
a grisly sight, strewn with parts of thousands of long-bodied Venusians.

But the captain knew and the lieutenant knew--perhaps even the major
knew--that Outpost 53 was worth any sacrifice the Venusians were
willing to make. If this post were captured, the Venusians could
control their planet again. There were any number of reasons why it
was best that the planet be governed by terrestrials, and not all of
them were commercial. The Venusians were murderous, evil, destructive
creatures who hated every other living thing in the universe.

Captain Bonnet checked his casualties. Of his crew of sixty, three were
dead and twelve paralyzed by the poisoned darts the Venusians used. The
other forty-five were half dead from exhaustion. Three days of fighting
was about all any man could stand.

Captain Bonnet's men had been in a more or less exposed position during
the first part of the battle and their casualties had been heavy while
they tried to prevent _The Piece of Sky's_ destruction. But probably
ten percent of the fifteen hundred men who manned Outpost 53 were out
of the action now, the majority of them suffering temporary paralysis
from dart poison. The captain realized that the attack would continue
until the Venusians captured the post.

The radio power house had been destroyed first of all. Then the space
ship had been wrecked. The outpost was cut off from communication with
the earth. Reinforcements who could attack the Venusians from above and
disperse them would not be due for two months. If Outpost 53 lasted
three weeks, it would mean fighting to the last man.

Lieutenant Riley reached into his bag between coughs of the Amorg gun.
He brought out a slender bottle and pulled the cork. He pressed the
bottle into Captain Bonnet's hand.

"Martian Zingo," the lieutenant said. "A friend of mine gave it to me
for a little service in the Canal campaign on Mars. I've been saving
it for a special occasion and it looks like this is it. Here's to our
short and merry lives, Captain!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Night brought some relief, although the poisoned darts still rained on
the outpost and the ground was lighted with flashes of the atom guns.

Major Rogers, his face drawn with weariness, stomped to the spacemen's
battery.

"We've got to get a man through to earth, Captain," the major said.
"Can't your ship be fixed?"

[Illustration: _"We've got to get a ship through to earth, Captain,"
the Major said. "Can't your ship be fixed?" The Captain shook his head
slowly._]

The captain shook his head. "No, sir."

"Doesn't your ship carry a lifeboat?"

"It does, but you couldn't make the earth in that--and survive. The
lifeboat carries just enough fuel to land on a planet. That fuel would
be used on the takeoff."

"But if you got off Venus and aimed the boat toward the earth, nothing
would keep it from getting there, would it?"

"No, I suppose not, sir."

"Then we've got to do it. Yes, yes, I know. It's suicide. But it's
suicide not to try it. We simply must get a message through to the
earth. We'll ask for volunteers."

"No need of that, Major," the captain said. "I'll make the trip."

"One man couldn't do it," broke in Lieutenant Riley. "I'm going along."

"You know what it means?" the captain asked his friend.

"Any spaceman knows what a forty-five million mile trip in a lifeboat
means, you mug," the lieutenant replied. "But I'd rather die quickly in
a crash landing than to face what the Venusians probably have thought
up for us when they whittle us down to their size."

"By gad! You're both heroes."

"Umph!" said Captain Bonnet, who had been a hero before.

"What's that?"

"I was about to say: we'd better get started. It's getting late."

"Good! Take a detail to your ship and get the lifeboat ready. Then you
and the lieutenant get some rest. I'll call you in an hour for the
takeoff."

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Piece of Sky's_ lifeboat was scarcely one hundred feet in length.
It was powered by fourteen rocket valves, fed from detachable fuel
containers, so arranged that as fast as a fuel drum was emptied it
could be dropped from the rocket. The ship was streamlined from the
nose to tail, but it was flattened on the bottom, so that either of
two possible types of landing maneuvers could be attempted.

Attempted was the correct word, for lifeboats of space ships were never
the last word in navigable machines. They were to be used only as a
last resort under desperate circumstances. No lifeboat had ever been
built as a machine for lengthy interplanetary travel. But the universe
is foolproof to a certain extent. Any piece of matter is sure to obey
the laws of the universe. Captain Bonnet supposed that if the lifeboat
succeeded in taking off, and if it were put on the right orbit, it
could reach the earth in time to send reinforcements back to Venus.

As Captain Paul Bonnet and Lieutenant Bill Riley took their places
in the ship, Major Rogers explained that the craft had been equipped
with a small parachute to be used just before the lifeboat crashed in
dropping a message to authorities that Outpost 53 had been attacked and
that reinforcements were needed.

"After you drop the message, you men are on your own," the major
explained.

"You mean we're to try to get out of it, if we can?" asked Captain
Bonnet dryly. "Humph!"

A few minutes later the lifeboat's rockets roared and the craft soared
upward through Venusian clouds to deliver a message to Terra.

Captain Bonnet watched the rockets drain the fuel tank on the takeoff.
His gravity gauge told him that he was going to make it. Once beyond
Venus and nosed toward the earth, which was approaching conjunction,
no more fuel would be needed. The ship would be seized by terrestrial
gravity and brought home. There would be a period of uncomfortable
warmth as the sides of the ship became red hot in the earth's
atmosphere. A few moments of frantic work dropping the parachute over
some populous region of the earth, and then a crash that would mean the
end.

Each man had gone over the details of what he was to do. Each man had
told himself that there was no end to this trip except death, yet each
man hoped that in some way he could avoid the final disaster. If there
were only some way a space ship could be landed without fuel!

"It's no use," Captain Bonnet said. "Up to the end of the Twentieth
Century, when all problems dealing with space navigation were worked
out, excepting space flight itself, all of the experts agreed that
there was no practical way of landing a space ship. It wasn't until the
Twenty-first Century that the spiral landing orbit was discovered and
it took another century to discover the Rippler force method of landing
a ship intact."

"At least the Rippler method's out," Lieutenant Riley said dryly. "We'd
have to have fifty gallons of fuel to land a fourteen-valve lifeboat on
its rocket jets."

"Even the spiral landing orbit would require twenty-five gallons,"
Captain Bonnet pointed out. "Both methods are out. We've got about
two gallons of rocket fuel in the tank and we'll need most of it in
the cooling system to keep us from burning up until we can drop the
message."

Hours ticked swiftly away as the space ship moved closer to the earth.
The craft had reached the middle of its course, where terrestrial and
Venusian gravities neutralized, with speed to spare. From now on it
would accelerate slowly under the pull of the earth's attraction and it
could be expected to enter the earth's atmosphere at a speed greater
than 200 miles a second. The entire trip from Venus to the earth would
take about 72 hours. The job of decelerating from 200 miles a second to
less than ten would be taken care of in the 1,000 miles of atmosphere
lying above the earth. It could be accomplished with no more discomfort
than a passenger in a car experiences in a sudden stop. But the last
ten miles per second deceleration would mean the overcoming of the
force of gravity itself.

Captain Bonnet considered the danger of the moon interfering with the
ship's flight to earth. He discovered, to his relief, that the moon was
out of the way, on the opposite side of the earth. At least he would
not have to use precious fuel to keep the craft from landing on the
moon.

He checked the cooling apparatus. It seemed in perfect working
condition and should keep the two passengers from roasting alive until
the ship crashed. At least this was a comfort.

Lieutenant Riley, who had been sleeping, opened his eyes.

"Say, Paul, I've an idea!"

"Yeah? Spill it."

"Why couldn't we keep the ship in an orbit outside the earth's
atmosphere until it is sighted by telescope?"

"There are two pretty good reasons for that," Paul Bonnet replied.
"In the first place we'll be going too fast. If we tried to get into
an orbit we'd sail right out again. To become a satellite of the
earth--and I suppose that's what you're thinking of--we'd have to slow
ourselves down to exactly the right speed necessary to overcome the
earth's gravity. That would be hard to do with the instruments on this
lifeboat, even if we had the fuel necessary to brake. In the second
place, if we got close enough to the earth to be seen by a telescope,
our orbital speed would be too fast for any 'scope to keep us in focus.
We'd be mistaken on photographs for a meteor."

"I guess we're up against it, eh Paul?"

"I've been thinking," Captain Bonnet said.

"What's this, a joke?"

"There's one plan that might work--a suicide plan. But even that might
be spoiled by an accident."

"If there's a chance we ought to take it."

"The message goes overboard first," the captain said. "After that we
save ourselves. I've been studying the charts and I know just where we
ought to land--that is in which hemisphere."

"Yeah? Which?"

"We're going to land somewhere in the Pacific."

"That's a nice thought. Who's going to pick up our message in the
middle of the Pacific?"

"That's what gave me the idea of our suicide plan," Captain Bonnet
said. "In order to drop the message over a city, we've got to float
around the earth until we get near one...."

Captain Bonnet began to explain his idea. The ship was going to hit the
earth's atmosphere at a terrific pace. The deceleration would be pretty
stiff--might be fatal--unless it were done gradually, but spacemen
had learned the trick of pancaking a flat-bottomed craft on top of
the atmosphere, then diving; pancaking again, diving again, until the
deceleration was accomplished.

This method of deceleration usually was accomplished with some use of
rockets and it led to the old time spiral landing orbit. The atmosphere
was the chief brake and the rockets were used to maneuver the craft
into dives and pancakes. A first class cooling system was needed, of
course, to carry off the heat of atmospheric friction, but the lifeboat
was equipped with a cooling system and there was nothing to worry about
from this source.

But the lifeboat had little fuel. Captain Bonnet, however, had flown
airplanes. He knew that braking could be accomplished without fuel if
the flat-bottomed ship were used as a plane. He planned to use airplane
tactics to slow the ship down to a speed closely approximating the
escape velocity of the earth--6.9 miles a second. This would enable the
ship to soar over the earth until it was over a good sized city, where
the message from Outpost 53 would be dropped.

"But if we land at that speed--and gravity will see to it we don't hit
much slower--we'll be buried deep in the ground. Even if we hit the
ocean, the deceleration will kill us--"

"Would it? There have been records of meteors striking the ground so
lightly they did little more than raise a cloud of dust."

"We're not a meteor."

"We're practically a meteor and there's one chance in a million that we
can duplicate what a meteor can do, Bill. It's our only chance."

"What do you want me to do?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Rocket engineers in developing machines for space travel had found
speed the foremost bugaboo. It was the speed a rocket had to attain
to leave terrestrial gravity that balked engineers. There also was
man's instinctive fear of going fast, in spite of the assurances of
science that speed, in itself, was harmless. It was acceleration and
deceleration that killed people.

One might travel seven miles a second indefinitely and suffer no ill
effects, once he got going that rate of speed. However, one might die
quickly while attaining it. Drugs enabled spacemen to withstand several
gravities of acceleration or deceleration without fatal effects and
there were a few of these pills aboard. But any speed change greater
than nine or ten gravities would be dangerous under any conditions.

The craft neared the earth. Already the travelers could make out the
dim outlines of the continental areas.

The gravity gauge registered the earth's pull strongly and Captain
Bonnet calculated that they were nearing the outer limits of the
atmosphere. He twisted a valve a fraction of a turn.

From a steering jet, a tiny needle of flame shot into the ether. From
another jet, a second flame glowed for an instant. The space ship
turned, wheeling the onrushing earth out of line with the lifeboat's
prow. Now the huge, radiant ball peeked into the craft through the
glass window in the floor, but the ship's direction of travel continued
toward it as before.

Captain Bonnet shut off the valves, conserving every ounce of rocket
fuel that remained in the tanks. Lieutenant Riley started the cooling
mechanism and for an instant the craft became uncomfortably cold.

This discomfort lasted only a few minutes, however, for the craft soon
began to strike the first atoms of the atmosphere and its sides began
to glow with heat. The space ship was fast becoming a meteor flashing
into the atmosphere of the earth.

There was a sudden jerk. Once more Bonnet twisted the valve, nosing
the streamlined craft downward slightly to allow these atoms of air to
strike the sides less forcefully. There was danger of a blackout if the
deceleration were too fast.

The ship dived forward and Bonnet used more precious fuel to turn it
broadside again. The craft slowed, this time not so violently.

The atoms of the atmosphere were audible now as whistling screams as
the ship spiraled one thousand miles above the earth.

Captain Bonnet watched the air speed indicator. For a long time it
stood at twenty miles a second--the highest speed it would register.
Then it began to slow: nineteen, fifteen, twelve, nine, seven miles a
second.

Instead of decreasing the speed further, he nosed the craft down. The
speed increased slightly, and then, like an airplane in flight, he
brought the craft slowly broadside by degrees. The effect of the slow
turn was to catch the atoms on the flat bottom so that the downward
rush was transformed into a horizontal rush. The craft was speeding
in an orbit parallel to the surface of the earth. Captain Bonnet had
brought the space ship out of a tail spin.

Instantly he shut off the fuel valves, leaving the remainder of the
fuel available for the cooling apparatus.

Lieutenant Riley looked wide-eyed at the hemisphere beneath the craft.

"Well, we're here and we've less than a gallon of fuel," he said.
"What next?"

"Unless there's an accident, we're going to land on an ounce or two,"
Captain Bonnet replied. "A meteor doesn't use any fuel, but it has
accidents. That tiny bit of fuel is going to keep us from having an
accident--I hope."

"That fuel is mighty potent," the lieutenant admitted. "It's the most
powerful explosive known. But old Terra's gravity is a pretty big
thing, too."

"For every action there must be a reaction," Captain Bonnet said.
"Strangely, no one ever considered this principle in respect to coming
down, as well as going up."

"Gravity is action and you're the reaction in that case," the
lieutenant observed.

"Not exactly. The escape velocity of the earth is gravity in
reverse--if we can twist our minds around to think of it that way. We
manufacture the escape velocity with our rocket fuel and use it to
neutralize gravity. An object going 6.9 miles a second goes far enough
around the earth in a second that the earth's curvature doesn't catch
up with it, so to speak."

"I hope you're sure of your reactions, although it doesn't make a lot
of difference if we get this message down."

"We're hitting the atmosphere at a speed close to the escape velocity
of the earth. If we were going that speed we'd never get any closer to
the surface. But we're being slowed so that we're falling--not very
fast, but fast enough. Our speed _around_ the earth is about 6.9 miles
a second, minus a few decimals. Our speed _toward_ the earth isn't very
fast--I'd say a few feet a second. Our only problem now is to stop our
forward speed without speeding our downward speed."

"I don't suppose you're very optimistic about it?" the lieutenant
asked, hopefully.

"No," the captain admitted, "but we can try. You've seen airplanes land
at speeds of one hundred miles an hour or more. That was their speed
forward. Their speed downward was measured in feet per minute. That's
our problem now. We've got to land like an airplane--make a deadstick
landing without crashing."

"Oh we might be able to land, but the minute we touch, some of our
forward speed is going to get us into trouble. Remember, an airplane
has wheels."

Captain Bonnet pointed to a small globe painted with a map of the
world. His finger touched a dot in the South Pacific near the Antarctic
continent at 60 degrees south latitude and 120 degrees west longitude.

"That's Dougherty Island," he said. "Between that island and San
Francisco are 6,300 miles of empty Pacific ocean. We're going to try to
land near Dougherty Island at a speed so fast we'll barely touch the
surface of the water. But as we touch the water, the frictional heat
of the sides of our space ship will transform the water instantly into
steam. The steam will cushion our ship against shock and decelerate us
rapidly--but not too rapidly for endurance. The stop will be rough, but
we can take it. We ought to be able to stop in 6,300 miles."

"Whew! A steam landing!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Bonnet kept his hands on the control, ready to use a few drops
of precious fuel to keep the craft in its spiral parallel to the
surface of the earth. The earth seemed to float upward slowly to meet
the space ship.

The interior of the craft grew uncomfortably hot, but the cooling
system worked.

A vast expanse of white appeared directly below the craft. It was the
South Polar ice cap.

"We're over James Ellsworth Land," the captain said, checking his
position. "That's about twenty-three degrees east of the longitude of
Dougherty Island. That's lucky."

"Lucky?" said the lieutenant.

"We can circle the earth once, drop our message over some city and
get back on the right longitude," the captain explained. "It'll
take us about an hour and a half at our present speed to make the
circumnavigation. In that time the earth will turn twenty-two and
one-half degrees beneath us."

The Pacific ocean flashed beneath the craft. The ship struck the
continent on the coast of Mexico and skirted above eastern Texas. Over
Kansas City, Captain Bonnet jerked a lever to release the message of
the beleaguered Venusian garrison.

The lieutenant watched it fall slowly down toward the ground.

Then he groaned.

"We've failed!" he said. "The parachute dropped in the Missouri river!
The last chance to save the garrison is lost!"

Captain Bonnet turned to his companion. "It isn't the last chance--if
our landing works!"

The craft soared northward into Canada, passing some distance west of
Hudson Bay. It crossed the Arctic sea, reached Siberia and then zoomed
southward, flying dangerously close to the tall peaks of the Himalayas.
Each minute saw it moving closer to the earth.

The craft shot across the Indian Ocean and entered the Antarctic again.
The Antarctic continent was reached near Douglas Island and it crossed
Enderby and Kemp lands toward the pole.

The metal monster was scarcely two thousand feet high as it soared over
the South Pole. The loss of the natural elevation of the polar plateau
left the ship about the same distance above the surface of the earth as
it approached the ocean again.

Captain Bonnet used a few more ounces of fuel to keep the craft in its
course, headed always toward the horizon, which at 1,600 feet seemed
fifty miles away.

Down the craft sank, inch by inch, toward the sea. Suddenly Lieutenant
Riley shouted and pointed:

"Dougherty Island! Over there!"

A black speck rose out of the Pacific dead ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

The two men already had slipped into their emergency landing harness
to protect themselves from the deceleration that was bound to come.
They had swallowed pills to protect themselves from the gravitational
pressure and now they felt the drug taking hold of their systems.

The ship seemed to be sailing parallel to the surface of the sea. The
tops of the waves reached up and touched the bottom of the craft, and
evaporated in a hiss of steam.

Gracefully, like a huge dirigible airship, the lifeboat dipped down. It
shuddered as the disturbed air roared like thunder around it. There was
a tremendous drag and a loud explosion as the ship touched the water.

Both men pitched forward in their harness.

Captain Bonnet felt the world growing black around him. With superhuman
effort he shook off the threatened blackout and sent the last drop of
fuel into the lower jets to hold the ship one second more above the
waves.

There was a terrific jar. Tons and tons of pressure exerted itself
against the ship and on the men inside. But nothing cracked.

Outside the window, vision was obscured by clouds of swirling vapor.
The craft bounded forward in gigantic, hundred-mile leaps, like a rock
skipping across the surface of a huge pond.

Lieutenant Riley hung limply in his harness, a stream of blood
trickling from his nose. Slowly he opened his eyes.

"We're alive!" he gasped.

Then he fainted again.

The craft slowed down. A startled fishing craft off the Central
American coast almost capsized in the wash of the monster from the
skies.

Ahead of them land reared its head above the horizon. Captain Bonnet
wondered if the ship would stop in time, but he did not realize how
quickly the craft was coming to a standstill. He turned the rudders and
steered for shore. A cry came from Lieutenant Riley.

It was the Golden Gate.

       *       *       *       *       *

A patrol boat met them in the harbor as the space ship, floating in
boiling water, came to a stop.

Captain Bonnet opened the locks and climbed out on the top of the
craft. He wore an asbestos space suit to protect himself from the heat
of the sides.

"Have you a wireless aboard?" he called to the patrol.

"Of course, captain!" came the reply from the patrol boat, as the
rescuers saw the insignia of rank on Bonnet's clothing.

"Send a message to the nearest interplanetary garrison that
reinforcements are needed at Outpost 53 on Venus. Lieutenant Riley and
myself just came from there--the situation is desperate...."

"You don't mean you came all the way from Venus in a lifeboat?"

"If you're going to waste time asking questions, let us come aboard,"
Captain Bonnet said. "But get that message in the air at once!"

Lieutenant Riley followed the captain through the locks into the patrol
boat. He lifted his hand and showed a bottle to the captain.

"Look what a close shave we had," he said. "This bottle of Martian
Zingo was in the lockers all the way from Venus and neither of us
suspected it. Lord, if we'd crashed we'd never have been able to sample
it!"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MESSAGE FROM VENUS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
