ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Ice Planet, by Carl Selwyn

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Ice Planet

Author: Carl Selwyn

Release Date: March 20, 2021 [eBook #64873]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ICE PLANET ***




                              ICE PLANET

                            by CARL SELWYN

                      _He saw the huge ball that
                       was Neptune circle below,
                    like a weak green light bulb._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                             Comet May 41.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"If it's going to happen," thought Bill Ricker, "it's got to be
quick." Lounging deep in his red-leather chair, he peered out of the
port as the sleek space ship streamed through the darkness. He could
see nothing outside but a big, humorous-eyed young man who was his own
reflection and the pale green globe that was Neptune. The great planet
hung like a ghostly emerald in the void, sinister in its loneliness.
But bleak, desolate, a snowball of frozen gases, it was hardly the
place for an ambush....

"Pretty, ain't she?" said the whiskery old fellow across the aisle.

"Neptune?" Ricker glanced at the sourdough, then followed his gaze down
the narrow aisle. "Oh--_her_!"

There were twelve seats but only five passengers. Further down was a
tubercular-looking Martian and near the pilot room sat a fat man with a
woman. The fat man chewed sleepily on a dead cigar and the woman stared
out of the window. They were handcuffed together.

"Ever seen the orchids on Amor?" said Ricker. "Well, she's just as
beautiful--and just as dangerous...." She was obviously Venusian but
her skin wasn't exactly yellow, he decided. It was golden brown, little
different from a deeply-tanned Earth girl.

"They say she shot his head plumb off," said the old codger.

"Yep, she certainly mowed him down."

The sourdough lifted a bony finger toward Ricker's brief case. "I
noticed th' tag on yer kit there," he ventured. "Says th' _Planetary
Times_. Be you one o' them telenews fellows?"

Ricker grinned. "Shore am, podner," he said.

"Gonna write about this here murderess arriving on Pluto?"

Ricker nodded good-humoredly. "That's my job."

Slowly a faint siren hum penetrated the cabin, not unlike the sound
of a power plant. A power plant it was too, the ship digging in full
blast as it skirted the pull of Neptune. Ricker turned away from his
garrulous neighbor, saw the sea-tinted planet had doubled in size. It
was a perfect sphere, without a mark on its surface, a ring of solid
hydrogen and helium. A worthless world, thought Ricker; worthless as
was half the universe--because the woman in the seat up front had
killed a man!

"Molly Borden--Benjamin Adison ..." the sourdough mused, apparently
still awed by such infamous company.

"Yep," said Ricker, remembering a line from his last story: "In the
flash of a pistol those names became linked forever...." It was odd, he
reflected. One was a woman nobody at the trial had ever seen before,
the other was a man whose name echoed throughout the spaceways.
Benjamin Adison was to stellar travel what Wright had been to
terrestrial aviation and in his sixtieth year when, at the completion
of his work on planet-warming, he had suddenly become _corpus delicti_
in the perfect telenews story. A stolen secret, a mysterious woman,
a person high in the government--it had all the angles. Then Senator
Trexel was acquitted, Molly Borden confessed. Now she was journeying to
a life sentence on the penal planet.

"Too bad she burned Adison's plans when they trapped her." It was
Ricker's self-appointed traveling companion again.

"We lost the resources of four worlds by that little trick," Bill
agreed. "The police found enough in the ashes to convince them it was
the plans." He smiled to himself slightly, like someone who expected
something but wasn't quite sure he could count on it. He was probably
the only one in the universe who wondered if those ashes really were
the plans. What if they still existed--what if Molly Borden hadn't been
working alone after all--what if those plans for an apparatus that
could heat a whole planet were in the wrong hands--? Well, it would be
a great telenews story at least, worth following this woman all the way
from Earth on a hunch....

The Martian began coughing again and Ricker watched him get up, very
tall, thin, emaciated. He was typically Martian with his dusty brown
face, beaked nose and heavy handsomeness. He walked slowly down the
aisle toward the water fountain.

"Funny how Adison's daughter swore she'd seen Senator Trexel leaving
her pa's laboratory," continued the sourdough.

"Trexel proved he was somewhere else at the time," said Ricker. "He's
got a bad reputation but it's graft--not murder. Dorothy Adison's just
a dizzy debutante. She left for a hunting trip immediately after the
inquest, couldn't be located for the trial. But with Molly Borden's
confession there wasn't--"

It was a sound like a handclap. Ricker glanced up, then stiffened
erect.

The Martian stood in the aisle beside the detective and the woman. He
stared calmly over his shoulder at Ricker and the sourdough and in his
right hand was a pistol leveled generally at them both.

"Please be very quiet," his lips moved in soft, even tones. Then
without taking his snaky eyes from them, he spoke to the woman. "The
key is in his left vest pocket," he said. "We'll take a small boat and
drop out of this before the pilots can be warned."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ricker stared like he was watching a tele-movie. Molly Borden's face
was expressionless as a doll as she fumbled at the detective. Ricker
heard a click and the fat man toppled out of his seat into the aisle.
His limp body settled awkwardly on the floor, legs under the seat, and
from the back of his head welled a dark stain that seeped into the
carpet.

"He slugged 'im," breathed the sourdough.

"Shut up!" threatened the beady-eyed Martian. "The first sound of alarm
will be your last!" Coughing quietly, he stepped aside to let the woman
pass and she moved up the aisle like a robot. Green eyes straight
ahead, she did not even glance at Ricker as she passed him.

Ricker realized in open space their scheme would be absurd but here,
with the pull of Neptune on their side, they'd fall away in the
darkness before the pilots knew what had happened.

The Martian turned quickly as he passed, kept the gun on them. "Open
the lock and get ready," he told the woman. She threw the lever on a
safety door, entered the boat and reached for the switch to slide the
boat's door shut after the Martian was in.

Both doors close simultaneously, thought Ricker; the boat drops when
the doors close.

The Martian backed slowly through the door like a great dark crawfish.
For an instant his pistol was out of sight.

Ricker sprang from his seat like a panther, dived head first as the
doors slid home.

The pistol roared.

But the flash of the gun was an instant behind the hand that knocked it
aside. It clattered to the hull of the boat as Ricker bowled the man to
the floor.

Both were on their feet like cats. The Martian leaped for the pistol.
The woman flattened against the wall.

Clang!

The door clamped shut and Ricker's stomach rushed into his chest. Blood
suddenly throbbed in his ears. His feet seemed nailed to the floor. The
Martian and the woman swirled dizzily before his darkening eyes. It was
like being in an elevator when the cable broke.

They were hurtling down, down through the darkness toward Neptune....

Weak and sick, when his head quit spinning, Ricker struggled to his
knees. The first thing he saw was a small instrument panel in front of
him. He stared at it a moment, collecting his senses. One register read
"ninety-three" but it didn't sink in at first. Then he gasped.

"Ninety-three _miles_!" They'd fallen that far--straight down! No
wonder he'd gone out. The normal jump of these boats was only twenty
miles before the autobrake took over. The gravity of Neptune--! He
remembered then.

His gaze leaped to the Martian lying in a corner of the cabin. The thin
fellow moaned slightly and his eyes were closed. His pistol lay beside
him and Ricker stepped over, snatched it up as his eyes flickered. When
they opened, the gun barrel was pointed at them.

"Tables're inclined to turn when you take a dive like that." He grinned
at the bewildered man. The woman, crumpled near the door, stirred and
sat up. She stared at them a moment as her ivory face changed from
puzzlement to rage.

She glared and finally asked, "What are you going to do?"

"Make the scoop of the century," Ricker's blue eyes twinkled. "I'm Bill
Ricker of the _Planetary Times_. I'm going to contact my boss and give
him a chat with Benjamin Adison's murderess after her most sensational
but unsuccessful escape." The idea was positively brilliant. "I don't
think the law'll mind--the Patrol can have you when I'm through."

"You won't get me before a radio," snarled the Martian, his eyes like
black marbles.

"Well!" said Ricker, feigning surprise. "The dear boy's publicity shy!
Afraid your boss'll be annoyed if you make a fool of yourself?" The
question went in the man like a barb. He said nothing, but his swarthy
cheeks paled a shade. Ricker's elation soared. "I followed Molly Borden
all the way from Earth thinking something would happen." He grinned.
"I thought another plane'd attack and try to rescue her but you, my
weak-lunged friend, were melodramatic enough. Also, when the Patrol
gets through with you maybe we'll know where those _plans_ are."

The woman started, perceptibly. "I burned the plans!" she flared.

"That's what the police thought," said Ricker. "But they thought
you were working alone, too, and your Martian chum here has rather
disproved that. No, Molly Borden. There's more to the Adison case than
came out in the trial. There're others involved. I'm going to find out
_who_ if it's my last story."

"You blundering imbecile--!" the woman broke suddenly. But quickly she
stopped, clinched her teeth and lowered her eyes. Since Ricker had
known her, this was the first time she'd lost that notorious composure
and he made a mental note of it. He had the telenews man's objectivity
about murderers, millionaires and chorus girls. Molly Borden wasn't a
cold-blooded killer to him, nor a most lovely woman. To Ricker she was
just a good telenews yarn....

He waved the pistol toward the boat's little air lock. "Get in there,
both of you," he ordered. "It'll keep you out of mischief while I
contact the _Times_."

The lock was slightly larger than a closet, about one quarter the size
of the whole boat. Standing well away from any sudden move, Ricker
forced them in, sullen and tight-lipped. He spun a wheel giving them
enough air and slid the door on the hissing chamber. Then hands on his
hips, he surveyed the interior of the cabin.

From about waist-high on all sides and sloping overhead, the walls were
transparent--glassite, a foot thick. At the nose of the triangular
shaped room was a control box, instrument panel and a small radio
outfit. Ricker stepped over quickly, his pulse pounding with glee.

He checked the auto-pilot; it was idling the boat correctly in its wide
driftless circle. Then he clicked on the transmitter, found the New
York beam and sat down.

"Ricker calling _Times_, Ricker calling _Planetary Times_...." As he
waited, he glanced through the glass, saw the huge ball of Neptune
circle beneath him. The planet glowed like a weak green light bulb in
the lonely darkness and he shivered to think twelve inches of glassite
was all that stood between him and the vacuum of stellar night, the
long dead fall to those snows far below....

"_Planetary Times_. What is it--?"

"Gimme th' Chief!" His fingers tattooed excitedly on the panel. "Chief?
This's Rick. Got th' biggest story since the ice age. Molly Borden's
escaped with a Martian. What? No! Don't start an extra yet!" He paused
for breath. "Gimme a Mercury-to-Pluto hook up. I've got Molly and her
accomplice _here_--for a personal interview."

"Jupiter's jumpers!"

Ricker had never heard the Chief so gone wild before. "Yep. That's
right." He laughed. "Do I get that raise? Just a moment and I'll put
Molly Borden on the ether...."

He turned half-way around, half rose from his seat--and froze.

Beside him, outside the glass, was a huge glistening shape, like a
space beast swimming in the void. It gleamed bright silver in the light
from the cabin and as he stared, mouth open, it THUMPED against the
side of the boat.

Panic jumped in Ricker. He almost fell over the instrument panel.

Then he made out a row of darkened ports, a shark-like prow. He
realized then slowly. The shadowed bulk outside was a space ship. It
showed no lights, no life....

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship drifted past like a falling leaf, a ghostly hulk floating
aimlessly down toward Neptune. As it disappeared below the glass,
Ricker caught a number and an insignia.

It was the liner they had just left.

"Chief," Ricker spoke to the transmitter. "Stand by! There's something
wrong! The Jupiter-Pluto Liner--the one we were on--it just passed
without signaling." He grabbed the controls, eased down on the
throttle. Top-jets humming, it was but a moment till the liner came in
view again.

Ricker circled the falling ship, saw no trace of a light. Its jets
were off but the gyro-brake must be working because it wasn't falling
fast. He moved closer alongside, shot out a spotlight. The white beam
glowed weirdly on the silver hull, its dead staring windows. He flicked
the light through the glass of the liner's control room--and his heart
jumped.

It wasn't a Negro or a Mercurian. He could tell by the features which
still clung to the face. It was an Earthian, in the stained uniform of
Stellar Liners, lying on his back across the instrument board. His arms
stuck out stiffly, crumbling hands palm up, and one pipe-like leg swung
with the motion of the wallowing ship. His face was black, black as
a charred hunk of steak--as if his head had been sprayed with a blow
torch....

Ricker spasmodically snapped off the light.

It was several moments before he turned it on again and played it
through the ports of the lifeless cabin.

They were all the same. The other pilot lay in the aisle. The detective
lolled restlessly near his seat. The old sourdough swayed, upright in
his chair--with his head almost burned away.

Ricker clicked off the light, pulled away from the drifting tomb and
bent over the transmitter. "Chief?" he said hoarsely. "Everybody on
that liner's been murdered. They're black--burned. I don't know how. I
think--"

"Do you think you're the only plane with a radio?"

Ricker looked around helplessly as his nerves turned to high tension
wire. The very hair on his head tingled. It was a voice vibrating
through the walls of the boat itself. An insane metallic voice from
nowhere.

Suddenly little dots of fire began to rain over the boat, sparkled on
the glass roof. Then a stream of crimson light gashed the blackness
outside and a drone of rockets came softly into the cabin. He caught
a glimpse of a space ship circling over. The light disappeared in a
cascade of sparks again. The plane vanished behind him.

Ricker gripped the panel and his nails whitened. He began talking to
the transmitter, very clearly and carefully.

"Chief!" The humming increased as the plane neared again, coming in
from behind. "Can you hear me? There's another ship outside. They're
using impact phones and it isn't a Patrol boat. I think I'm in for
trouble." The little pointer on the transmitter dial quit vibrating.

"We burned off your aerial," chattered the mechanical voice through the
walls. "Open your space-door and prepare for boarding. And no tricks!
We have a sight on you."

With clenched fists, Ricker gazed into the blackness a moment, then
resignedly walked over and opened the lock. The Martian stepped out
with a smirk of malicious triumph. The woman's face was expressionless.
Of course they'd heard the voice, too, probably recognized it, and
Ricker made no pretense of covering them with the pistol. Doubtless,
_he_ was the prisoner now.

The Martian coughed behind his hand. "Soon," he said, "I shall repay
you for this delay."

"It's all in the game," said Ricker.

The boat trembled as the craft outside clamped to the air lock.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ricker opened the lock when the order came and a dark, rat-like little
man in gray coveralls entered the cabin. He carried a pistol of a type
Ricker had never seen before. It looked like a revolver with the barrel
sawed off.

"Nice work, Vanger," he greeted the Martian. He glanced at Molly Borden
curiously, then with narrow-eyed admiration. Ricker waited stiffly. The
Martian motioned to him.

"Watch this man, Gurren," he said. "Don't hesitate to shoot if he tries
anything but I'd like to find out what he knows when we land."

_Land!_ Ricker's forehead wrinkled. Where could they land? The nearest
habitable planet was the radium-warmed Pluto and prison was what they
were escaping. And who were they? Could they explain the liner and its
cremated passengers? As he was marched through the lock into the other
plane he decided information wouldn't do a corpse much good but he'd
certainly find out all he could until he became one....

The ship was egg-shaped, its interior bisected into cabin and
blast-engines. Small but powerful, Ricker inferred from the heavy
insulation. He was led into the cabin where another man, also wearing
coveralls, with ear-phones on his head, sat at the wheel. He was squat,
like a tractor. He eyed Molly Borden appraisingly.

"Hello, Hines," said the Martian. "Get rid of that boat out there and
let's go."

"Right," said the big fellow, reluctant to take his eyes from the woman.

They cast off, circled the boat and then settled just over it. Hines
jerked a trigger-like lever on the wheel. Ricker glanced through the
viewplate.

The boat beneath him glowed red. A puff of white smoke--it was _gone_!

God o' Mars! Ricker stared through the glass hardly believing what
he'd seen. A little chill tickled the back of his neck. The boat had
vanished in clear space, like a magician's trick. This plane must have
some sort of heat gun--a disintegrator.

Vanger, the Martian, laughed in a voice irritatingly shrill. "And
you tried to interfere with us," he jeered at Ricker's amazement. He
pushed him into a seat in a corner of the cramped cabin, then turned
to Gurren. "It took you long enough to find us," his tone changed to
displeasure.

"The liner circled back and radioed the Patrol," the ratty fellow
explained. "We thought we better put it out of the way." He grinned.
"We just gave 'em a small dose--cooked 'em. When the Patrol comes,
won't they get a headache trying to figure that out?"

Vanger laughed with him till a fit of coughing darkened his face.

Ricker ground his teeth. So that's what happened to the liner! They'd
blasted it like the small boat, but with only just enough heat to--.
Ricker thought of the friendly old sourdough. The dirty yellow weasels!

Suddenly he sprang up like a whip, lashed his fist into Vanger's mouth.
The Martian crashed backward into the instrument panel. Ricker started
after him with blind fury in his heart.

Something banged into the back of his head, stunning, blackening.

As he fell, he saw Molly Borden standing over him with a wrench in her
hand. Her green eyes glinted with a look he could not define as he
wavered into blackness....

       *       *       *       *       *

"We can't fail!" The words reached Ricker through a haze of pain
throbbing in his head. "With all that equipment, it'll be like
capturing a rabbit hutch. And won't I just love potting several rabbits
I know. The chief of police, the judge, twelve rabbits that were on the
jury--I really can't wait!"

Ricker opened his eyes, fought with his whirling senses. The Martian
leaned against the opposite wall, the other two men worked silently at
the controls. The woman sat on the floor with her legs neatly crossed,
a cigarette spiraling toward the ceiling. Her green eyes played the
Martian like a piano and apparently the strings of his black heart were
attuned.

"But," Molly Borden purred, "you don't know what I went through on that
liner, Van. After we passed Uranus and nobody came, I almost gave up.
I knew there wasn't a livable place after Jupiter and--well, I had no
idea you could have located at Neptune...."

"So!" Vanger glanced toward Ricker, interrupted her. "Our publicity
agent's with us again!"

Ricker met his eyes evenly, said nothing. Sinking into his mind was
what he had just heard. _Something_ was located on Neptune; something
would be like shooting rabbits.... But Neptune was covered with snow a
hundred miles deep. Its surface was a bleak hell of frozen, screaming
winds. Nothing could hide, or live on Neptune. And equipment--rabbits--?

He turned to the port, looked out as in his mind three facts suddenly
and logically came together: Benjamin Adison could warm a planet and
his plans were stolen--Neptune was barren with ice and--He saw the
planet slowly spreading out beneath them like a convex plain of white
glass....

"That's right, telenewsman," the Martian interpreted his movement. He
coughed like a dog sneezing. "Take a good look. Out of that desolate
waste soon will come the most terrible armada of all history. We shall
sweep everything before us--in a blast of white heat. Did you notice
what happened to the boat we escaped in? Such will happen to your war
planes. Who opposes us will quickly become a crisp black corpse."

"I presume," said Ricker dryly, "that you have Adison's plans. They
were supposed to be able to heat a planet but your Neptune still
appears cold as ever. Do you care to elaborate on this little scheme of
yours?"

"Certainly." Vanger smiled like a cat in the canary's cage. "As to
Neptune, you will have a personal showing in due time. As to the Adison
Unit--you've seen an application of it destroy a plane in a matter of
seconds. This ship is equipped with four guns that can cut through
a yard of steel instantly. And the guns are controlled in range,
intensity and breadth of contact. They can reduce a space liner to dust
at ten feet--or melt a pin-head a mile away. What will you think when
you see ten thousand planes like this--and materials for a million?"

"I'll think you're a damn liar," said Ricker, "till I do see 'em.
And even then I won't believe you can lick one Patrol boat." He was
bluffing and he knew it. Obviously Vanger knew it, too, for he winked
at the imperturbable Molly Borden, his nasty smile still there.

Ricker cursed himself. If he'd called the Patrol instead of trying to
be smart and contact the _Times_, this would have been nipped in the
bud. What if it all _was_ true? He'd seen what this ship could do. He'd
also seen those dark crumbling bodies in the liner. And he'd followed
Molly Borden on the wildest hunch. What had he run into? And what a
story--if he lived to tell it....

"Landing," voiced Gurren from the wheel.

Ricker felt a sinking sensation as the plane slowed its descent.
Looking out the port, he saw the surface of Neptune gradually flatten
into an endless table of sleek gleaming ice, ghostly blue in the pale
light, like a frozen lake in moonlight. They sank closer and the bare
expanse swelled to a dim monotonous plain of mirrored shadows. Far
out, above the razor-smooth horizon, a dull red ball cast its feeble
light across the lonely scene. Ricker felt a twinge of helplessness,
home-sickness. That weak orange light was the sun....

Gurren fought the controls. The plane wallowed like a ship in a storm
and outside a wind that was almost visible tore at them with grim, icy
fingers. That sweep of wind, Ricker knew, was an endless hurricane that
scoured the dead surface of Neptune to the smoothness of tin. It was a
wind of tinted methane, a five hundred mile gale, eternally....

What live secret teemed on this forgotten planet? What lurking fate
awaited _him_--when he'd learned its festering secret--too late?

Bump!

The plane jarred down to a rough landing, streamed across the snow in a
swirl of wind-driven ice dust. Ricker thought of what the Martian had
said. Ten thousand planes--where? The man was mad. There was no place
on this naked planet to hide a factory.

"Forty-four-five!" said Hines. Apparently it was their magnetic
position on Neptune. Ricker remembered it.

"Right," said Gurren. "Dig in!" He threw the brake, made a breathtaking
stop and held the plane like a wild horse against the wind.

Hines pulled a trigger on the wheel. A misty cloud of
white--_steam_--suddenly frosted the windows. An angry hissing
penetrated the walls and the falling sensation rose in Ricker again,
though he could see nothing through the ice-coated ports. His eyes
widened.

The plane had landed, but it _continued to fall_!

Ricker stared at the pilots with mixed exasperation and astonishment.
He glanced at Molly Borden but she was blasÃ© as ever. Finally he turned
to Vanger.

"Would you mind telling me what's going on?" he asked with more
nonchalance than he felt.

"Not at all." The Martian grimaced with what was his smile. "Since you
won't live to repeat it, we're bound for the perfect hideout--beneath
the snows of Neptune."

He laughed and the sound of his laughter mingled with the whispering
hiss of steam, seemed to echo from the painted windows which had now
turned black.

Ricker watched the windows. His eyes narrowed again when they glowed
again with the reflection of light outside. The light was brighter than
before.

Then, suddenly, as if by some quick heat, the ice vanished from the
windows, and, if he felt surprise at the wizardry of their descent into
the snow, what he beheld now was with a staggering shock.

The ship floated down into a cavernous box-like place that stretched
out into miles of smooth floor surrounded by white, glistening walls of
sheer ice. On the floor, long geometrical rows of flat buildings, like
an automobile factory, striped one side of a wide smooth landing field.
On the other side of the field stood a large house like an office
building and behind it lay a silver, windowed dome from which ran heavy
tubes curving into the ground. Upon the field, forming a great dotted
circle around it, rested literally thousands of egg-shaped space ships.

Ricker stared through the viewplate as if watching the very gates
of Hades open before him. They landed slowly. And despite his
astonishment, he absorbed everything he saw with the photographic
memory of a good telenewsman.

The place was an immense chamber deep in the icy rind of the
planet--apparently resting on the very surface of Neptune itself for
the floor appeared to be rock, different from the glistening walls and
the roof. And the roof--glancing up, Ricker saw the low sleek dome held
no mark of their entrance! The ice had instantly frozen behind them
again as they passed through. This place was impregnable, perfectly
hidden. A hundred miles of snow was at once a shield and camouflage.

But how?

Then he saw how. Along the walls reared tall tripods, similar to radio
towers. At the top of each flared a ring of yellow light--it was
blinding to look at. Like looking full at the noonday sun. And through
the windows, he could feel the sweaty penetration of--heat!

"Show Miss Borden to her room, Hines." The Martian's voice brought
Ricker's staring eyes back to the cabin. "I'll call for you shortly,
Molly. And you, Gurren, lock up our meddlesome journalist till I have
time for him."

The ship landed like a feather. Vanger opened the door, ogled a
twittering good-by to the woman, and jumped to the ground. He strode
off toward the office-like building beside the ship-encircled field.
All the planes were shiny and new, Ricker noticed.

Gurren and Hines motioned the woman and him out. The floor was a kind
of granite underfoot, Ricker saw. The field was about the size of a
baseball diamond, the ships staggered in a wide circle around it like
eggs in a giant incubator. And an incubator it was. From the shops a
quarter of a mile away echoed the whirr of machinery, the clang of
metal against metal, the stutter of riveting hammers. Pale blue light
rayed from the windows and open doors, cast an aura of stark efficiency
above the gleaming roofs and in the streets.

Several men passed, wearing the gray coveralls of his captors, and
obviously a landing space ship was not unusual for they gave them no
more than a passing glance. They stared at Molly Borden, of course.
But then she would have attracted attention in the Shangri-la where
dead nymphs go.

"This way," said Hines, and led them across the field, past a center
tripod toward the factories. Ricker had never seen the Adison unit
before but he knew this must be it. Like steel columns, heat held back
Neptune's sunless cold, forced a rigid hollow inside the living ice.

Hines and the woman walked ahead. Ricker followed with Gurren a few
paces behind him. Neither of his guards drew their strange-looking
guns and Ricker also knew that escape was impossible. It would be like
trying to get out of a box buried in a block of concrete. And he was no
Houdini....

A few yards into the canyons of the seething city and Hines stopped.
"This is your room for the time being." He grinned at Molly Borden like
a school boy at the teacher. He waited beside an open door which led
into a living compartment of some sort. "If there's anything you wish--"

Next door stood a building from which droned a low monotonous chatter,
the hum of a transmitter, the crackle of static. On the roof towered
two poles from which hung a long radio antenna. An idea akin to suicide
suddenly quickened Ricker's pulse.

"Thank you," the woman said to Hines who, since Vanger left, was
rapidly becoming a two-bit cavalier on his own. Ricker glanced at
Gurren out of the corner of his eye. He was also gulping in the beauty
of the Venusian.

If that radio room was only empty! thought Ricker. If he could make it
in time--get the door closed--

"Perhaps I should see if everything's all right," said Gurren,
reluctant to leave. As Hines frowned nastily, he took Molly Borden's
arm, started into the room with her.

Like a fleeing deer, Ricker suddenly streaked away.

A shout behind him. The door wasn't ten feet ahead. A hot white blast
whizzed past his left shoulder. The door frame glowed red, steamed.

Ricker dived through the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

He caught the door as he went through, slammed it shut behind him.

A man whirled around from a mass of instruments. In that split second
all Ricker saw was the man's startled face, his hand snatching a pistol
from his belt.

Ricker leaped for him as from a catapult, brought up a swift short
right. Smack! The fellow fell back into a bank of scattered dials.
Ricker jerked the gun from his hand as he sagged to the floor.

Without another glance at him, he leaped to the transmitter. It was an
ordinary radio outfit but apparently of tremendous power. He snapped
the sending switch, kept his eyes fused to the door.

"Come out, Ricker!" It was Gurren's voice. "We'll burn you through the
door!"

Ricker didn't answer. His ears strained for the warming tone of the
sender. He knew they wouldn't blast the building; it would destroy the
radio. And they wouldn't come through the door--for a moment.

A low hum sang in the room. The transmitter was working. Ricker bent
over the mike, eyes on the door.

"Attention, all listeners." He spoke rapidly but without a tremor.
"Ricker, _Planetary Times_--calling for help. Send Patrol to Neptune.
Magnetic location--" God! what was that number! "Forty-four-five.
Neptune, magnetic forty-four-five--"

The door opened.

"Get back!" said Ricker. "I'll kill the first man that enters!"

Molly Borden came through the door.

"Stop," said Ricker. "I swear I'll shoot if you come a step inside."

"Put down that gun," she said quietly. Gurren and Hines stood in the
door behind her, their pistols leveled but unable to shoot with her
directly in the line of fire. The woman moved slowly toward Ricker.

"Stop!" he said. God! Why didn't he shoot! This woman was dead anyway.
The state had condemned her. It wouldn't be like killing anybody else.

She came on, slowly, like a lion trainer approaching a dangerous animal
but with no vestige of fear. Her eyes knifed into his, unblinking,
commanding, like the paralyzing fangs of a serpent. His finger
tightened on the trigger.

"Give me the pistol. Please." Her voice was low, throaty but with
vibrant confidence. With the spell of her eyes, it urged Ricker like
the subtle demand of a hypnotist. "Please."

She halted before him, a gorgeous creature, like some great poisonous
jungle flower. Her cold green eyes bored into him without a waver. Her
face was expressionless, a thing of tinted marble. She held out her
hand.

"Give me the gun, Bill Ricker," she said softly. "They'll kill you if
you don't."

Ricker leveled the pistol at her heart. "I've never killed a woman--"
Gurren and Hines moved around to get a shot at him. "Stay where you
are!" said Ricker. "I'll burn a hole through her if you move a step."

He tried to avoid her seeking eyes, met them again. Their gaze met like
live wires touching. A current passed between them that almost made
sparks. Ricker's whole body vibrated to the electric force of her gaze.
Her eyes became an irresistible power transfixing his very being.

For an instant he felt like a moth on a pin. Then without shifting her
eyes, Molly Borden slapped the pistol from his hand.

It clattered to the floor. The men were upon him....

       *       *       *       *       *

Ricker found his pockets contained one cigarette, a book of matches
and a clipping from the _Times_. He sat down on the cold metal bunk,
dejectedly lit the cigarette and stared at the dark windowless walls
and the heavy door that made his prison. Finally he glanced at the
clipping:

    As Molly Borden, confessed murderess of scientist Adison, was
    hustled into a plane bound for Pluto today, the only question in
    the minds of the police and the thousands who witnessed her
    spectacular trial was "Who is Molly Borden?" The identity of the
    Venusian panther-woman remains as mysterious as her emerald eyes.

    Since immigration officers apprehended her at the City Rocket
    Terminal as she attempted to leave the country, no hint of her
    past has escaped her carmine lips. Her fingerprints, photographs,
    the handsome assassin herself, have brought no trace of
    recognition from a bewildered universe.

    Dorothy Adison, socially prominent daughter of the scientist, who
    left for Africa after the inquest at which she testified to seeing
    Senator Geb Trexel at the scene of the crime and was proved
    mistaken, could not be located for the trial. If Miss Adison can
    throw any light on the identity of her father's murderess, it is
    now inconsequential for the quick sword of justice--

Ricker crumpled the slip of paper, hurled it across his narrow cell.
Why hadn't he killed her when he had the chance. _She_ was a killer,
heartless, cruel as a lynx--and doubly dangerous because she possessed
the claws of woman. Her beauty was a mask of murder; the charm of her
eyes--well, he'd fallen into them and she'd taken a gun away from him
like a toy from a child.

His black thoughts returned to the fullness of his plight. Obviously,
Molly Borden had pretended to burn the plans to keep the police off
the trail of her henchmen. Then the law had virtually delivered her
to their door-step again. Blind fools! He'd written story after story
doubting those ashes they found in her stateroom. On the evidence of a
few half-burned symbols and a charred notebook cover, the law had made
a mistake endangering the very universe!

He was as blind as the police. At least he had expected something--but
now here he was trapped like a rabbit in a box. With a plot forming
around him that could shake worlds--with a story any telenewsman would
give his typewriter-fingers for!

Vanger hadn't lied. His heat-gunned ships could stop any army. And
here, beneath the lying ice-wastes of Neptune, such planes were being
made like bubbles....

Ricker combed desperate fingers through his unruly hair, got up and
paced the cramped floor. What was their plan? To attack Earth--conquer
Mars, Venus, Mercury--all the colonies? No! It was unimaginable! But
this unknown cave, those ships out there--?

He wondered if his attempted message had gotten through to the Patrol.
But he hadn't had time to say he was _beneath_ the location he'd given.
They wouldn't find a trace up there on the ice and how could they guess
what lay under a hundred miles of frozen gas?

He heard a key clink in the lock of his cell door. It opened to Hines'
tank-like figure. He had his gun ready, apparently wasn't taking any
chances since the incident of the radio building.

"Let's go, telenewsman," he ordered Ricker outside. Ricker walked out
the door without a word.

Hines motioned him to go ahead, directed him out into the noisy street.
The hum of machinery was deafening and in the buildings they passed,
Ricker saw space ships in all stages of construction along busy
assembly lines.

"Where do you get the materials?" he asked idly.

"Simple," said Hines. "Neptune's minerals have never been tapped
before. We mine everything we need right here."

"And the men?" The streets were deserted but hundreds were at work in
the shops.

"Every man has his price. We pay well."

Ricker remembered several mysterious disappearances in the industrial
centers on Earth. They had usually been without families and of small
means, however, and no extensive inquiry was made....

The gigantic cavern itself still fascinated him. Glancing up, he
noticed the dome of ice was almost the hue of clear blue sky. It
was perhaps a mile high and the suggestion of distance lent by the
shimmering walls made the place appear even larger than it was. He
wondered why there wasn't a constant dripping, why the chamber wasn't
moist like a cave. Then he remembered it wasn't frozen water around
them. It was frozen atmosphere, melting back into its gases--like dry
ice.

Wouldn't the public eat this story up, he thought, as they wove between
the evenly-spaced ships beside the field. Then he smiled ironically.
_What_ public? The only public he could reasonably expect was a jolly
bunch of pallbearers....

They crossed the field, Hines with the pistol at his back. Ricker saw
three new ships rolled out into line as they walked the short distance
to buildings on the other side.

"What're these?" he asked, looking at the tall three-story house and
the big silver dome at the rear.

"The Boss's place," said his guard. "And that dome's the power plant."

The Boss! Ricker's mind clicked. Who was the leader? Was it Vanger?
Molly Borden? Somehow neither of them seemed to fit.

They paused at the door of the building. Hines pushed a button. A
moment's wait, the door opened to Vanger's dusty face.

"Hello," he greeted. "I hope you found our humble hospitality to your
liking, Mr. Ricker." He led them down a narrow corridor to another
closed door. Hines left them, retraced his steps. Vanger opened the
door, ushered Ricker in.

Ricker saw Molly Borden standing beside a small glass table in a
spacious but dim-lit room. The walls were mirrored and a dull hidden
light cast vague shadows upon heavy chairs and a sofa, gleamed weirdly
upon chrome ash-trays, a carved bottle and glasses. The highlighted
silhouette of the woman commanded the scene. She stood carelessly, one
crimson-tipped hand resting on the table, a cocktail glass glinting in
the other. She had changed from her traveling suit, wore a shimmering
gown that bathed her lithe body in a sheen of liquid silver. Had it
been under any ordinary circumstances, Ricker would have whistled at
the sight of her.

"Your stare tickles, Mr. Ricker," she said. "Won't you come in? Will
you have scotch or--"

"He's a telenewsman," said a deep voice from a shadowed chair to the
left. "He'll have scotch. And please turn on the light, Vanger. We must
make our guest feel at home."

A sudden light glowed over the room. Ricker gazed at the person who had
spoken.

He saw a large fat man lounging deep in a cushioned armchair. He had
three folds of pale flesh for a chin below his thick lips, his eyes
were puffed with the whites startlingly large and his skin was white,
an unhealthy white--like a great white worm.

Ricker inhaled quickly. His jaw dropped.

It was Senator Trexel sitting there.

Ricker was struck dumb. He clutched the back of a chair as his mind
swirled.

"So Dorothy Adison was right!" He heard himself speak the words as if
somebody else had said them.

"Alibis are easily purchased." The fat man's heavy lips curled up at
the corners and his hog-like eyes became slitted puffs of flesh. "But
do sit down," he smiled. "We have much to talk about."

Ricker found his way around the chair, sank down slowly with his eyes
upon the man. Dorothy Adison was right! The phrase roared in his mind.
Trexel _did_ have something to do with the murder. Had he hired Molly
Borden to do it? Was he a member of this Neptune gang? Was he the
_leader_?

"What will you have to drink?"

Ricker looked at the man as he would a Black Widow spider. "I don't
drink with murderers--and traitors," he said carefully.

With an amazing swiftness for a man of his bulk, Trexel left his chair,
stepped over and struck him smartly across the mouth with the flat of
his palm.

"You will be careful of your words!" he breathed. "Another remark like
that and you die where you sit!"

He returned to his chair, his composure regained as quickly as it left
him. He took a cigarette from his waistcoat pocket, struck a match.

"Now talk, telenewsman," he said. "Who knows where you are? How did you
suspect Molly Borden?" The light of the match made his face a white wax
mask. He lit the cigarette, blew out the match with a puff of his pasty
cheeks.

Ricker refused to open his bruised lips, stared at the man and kept
silent.

"There are ways," said Trexel, "of making you talk." Vanger, behind
Ricker's chair, coughed in agreement.

"I know," said Ricker finally. "And I imagine you could put Mercurian
torture methods to shame. But I'll save you the trouble. There are
three people who know where I am. One is my boss, the editor of the
_Planetary Times_, another is Dorothy Adison who saw you leaving her
father's laboratory after the murder and the other is--the President of
the United States."

Molly Borden put down her glass with a sharp clink.

Trexel slowly took his cigarette from his mouth, dropped his
tree-trunk arm to his lap. Ricker met his eyes evenly. Would he
believe it?

"You lie," said Trexel. "One of my men is in the President's office. I
know every move he makes."

"The President knew your spy was there," said Ricker. "We found him
more useful in your employ than in jail."

The fat man took on the look of a bullfrog caught in the glare of a
flashlight. The cigarette smoldered in his hand unnoticed. He gazed
at Ricker a long few seconds, as silence held the room like a stifled
breath.

Then he looked up quickly to the Martian.

"Vanger," he said in a voice like Napoleon must have had at Waterloo.
"Contact Number 12 at the White House, tell him to find out if what the
man says is true. And tell him whether it's true or not to prepare for
immediate action."

Vanger gasped, then choked with a cough. "Attack now!"

"Why not?" Trexel decided, twisting his cigarette into a tray. "We have
enough ships to take Earth and the colonies can't do much with their
supplies cut off. Any one of our ships can fight off fifty ordinary
ones. Perhaps we should begin before Adison's daughter does cause
trouble--since we can't find her to keep her quiet.

"Give the word for complete mobilization in an hour!" He stared at the
ceiling a moment in silent thought. "We'll pick off the Patrol ships,
have Earth surrounded by dawn in New York. When the city awakes there
will be a new ruler--of the solar system!"

"Yes, sir." The Martian smiled and turned to go.

"Wait," said Trexel. He nodded to Ricker. "On your way, take this man
out and shoot him." Ricker's heart jumped but he stared at the man
without a change of expression.

"Shouldn't you first find out if he's lying, Senator?" Molly Borden's
unruffled voice raised the fat man's bulbous eyes. "We shouldn't rush
into this attack unless quite sure--"

"I know where I stand," said Trexel. "I have men close to every
government on Earth. When I give the command, they'll take over while
my ships destroy all resistance. And why delay longer? We'll strike
before our luck changes."

Ricker stood up. "Listen, fat man," he said. "You hold all the cards as
far as I'm concerned. But as far's Earth is concerned it's a different
matter. You can't conquer a planet. Men will hide in mountain, jungle
and sea. They'll leap at you from every bush and corner. What if you do
burn a few ships--a few armies? What if you take every government? The
people will rise again. You can't rule by force alone."

"History," said Trexel, "proves that men forget. They soon grow
accustomed to new eras. They have learned to love tyrants before."
He waved his hand to Vanger. "But this is no discussion of political
philosophy...."

Ricker felt something jabbed into his side. It was a pistol in the
Martian's hand.

"No!" Molly Borden cried suddenly. "Don't kill him!"

"What?" Trexel looked up at her as if she'd thrown her cocktail in
his face. "What is this man to you?" His piggish eyes narrowed. Her
exclamation surprised Ricker as much as it did the rest of them.

"You're tired, Molly," snapped Vanger. "Perhaps you should go to your
room."

The woman's painted nails bent against the glass of the table beside
her. She looked like a tigress about to spring. Why? Ricker almost
forgot his own plight at the sudden change in her manner.

"Don't shoot that man," she said slowly. "I'm not--"

"Leave the girl here, Vanger," Trexel interrupted her with dead eyes.
"Maybe I'd like to talk with her awhile. You go ahead and follow
orders."

"Yes, sir," said the Martian, reluctantly. He pushed the gun into
Ricker, forced him around to the door as he looked back at the woman
with a puzzled expression on his dusky face.

They passed out of the room into the long darkened corridor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ricker's mind was an ant hill of thought as Vanger marched him down the
hall. His bluff had worked. Trexel feared his whereabouts was known.
But the bluff, in working so well, had precipitated an early start
of their scheme--and sounded taps for himself. Oddly, as the Martian
pushed open the door and the yellow light of the heat units burst into
his eyes, his own death didn't matter much, his dying didn't seem
very real. In his brain was the vision of those charred bodies in the
liner--they were real. And he could picture that same scene in each
ship of Earth as thousands of egg-shaped craft met them in terrestial
space, blasted a path of hell to the cities below.

Even his failure to "get the story" seemed insignificant. This thing
was bigger than himself.

Ricker felt the pistol withdrawn from his side, glanced back at the
Martian. The man's beady eyes fixed on him like a snake's.

As Ricker stared back, almost absently, Vanger's left fist whipped up,
banged into his chin, knocked him backward upon the hard ground.

Stunned by the unexpected blow, Ricker got to his hands and knees
shakily. He rubbed his numb jaw, gazed at the Martian through a quick
red film of rage.

Vanger took careful aim at him. "Die, Earthman," he said softly. "Die
with a blackened face, as all your brothers will."

Ricker didn't wait. The crouch he found himself in was not unlike the
position in four years of college football. He hurtled at the man like
a blocking-back gone wild.

Hiss-s-s!

White flames streamed over his head. White flame singed his hair and
clothing, bathed his face in quick burning sweat. He struck Vanger high
in the belly, carried him down in a perfect tackle.

Vanger's head knocked against the ground. Ricker's fingers shot to
his throat like a striking cobra. But there wasn't time to throttle
the man. He let him go, drew his right fist back just six inches and
stabbed into the Martian's chin. Vanger's head slammed against the
ground again. He lay still.

Ricker snatched the pistol from his limp hand, heard shouts and glanced
about frantically.

He saw men running toward him across the field, about ten of them with
others trailing in the distance. They must have seen the fight from
the factory. They came on like a drove of stampeding horses. Between
himself and the charging crowd, Ricker saw the ship he had arrived in.
It was about the distance of a city block away.

Without any definite plan, he jumped off the unconscious Martian, raced
for the ship.

To an observer at the side, it would have appeared that the crowd of
running men and the lone sprinter were speeding to meet each other. But
it was a match-meet for the space ship between them. The men apparently
inferred Ricker's goal. They increased their pace. Ricker dug in with
his long legs.

The ship wasn't fifty feet away. The men weren't a hundred. Ricker's
feet pounded the rock of the field like a race horse going down the
home stretch. The wind whistled in his ears, he scarcely seemed to run,
felt as if he was gliding. But the men were gaining. With each panting
breath, the distance between them and the ship narrowed. He saw they
would get to it before he did. And if they got there first--!

He remembered the gun, clutched forgotten in his swinging hand.

Without breaking his stride, Ricker brought up the pistol and squeezed
the trigger. There was no report. A stream the color of molten lead
hissed from the barrel, like tracer bullets from a machine gun. Several
of the men fell forward kicking like shot deer. Black oily smoke
curled up from the pack. The rest stopped. Then they scattered in all
directions across the field leaving five writhing, smoking mounds on
the ground behind them. The smell of burning flesh came to Ricker's
flared nostrils.

[Illustration: _Ricker squeezed the trigger. Men fell. Black oily smoke
curled up. The others scattered, leaving five smoking mounds behind._]

He was at the ship. He snatched open the door, leaped in and slammed it
behind him.

He didn't remember taking off. The next thing he knew, he was in the
air, circling high above the field.

Looking down, he saw men like little bugs swarming out of the buildings
far below. He saw ships pushed out on the field. The ships spiraled up
toward him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ricker's first thought was to head into the ice, cut on the heat guns
and bore through to safety. But no. It was slow going through the ice
and they'd catch him before he'd gone a mile.

Below he saw toy ships rising, growing like mushrooms as they gained
altitude. There were eighteen of them, he counted out loud. What chance
had he against eighteen? He squeezed his triggers testily, felt a
slight recoil as the hot breath of death licked out from all sides of
his ship. Well, it'd be one fine fight anyway....

Suddenly he noticed the radio before him. Of course! Quickly he
switched on, spoke into the transmitter.

"Calling Stellar Patrol, calling Stellar Patrol!"

"What is it?" The answer came so quickly Ricker jumped. They must be
close by. "Is this Ricker? Where are you?"

"Where are _you_!"

"At forty-four-five Neptune. The location you gave." His message
had gotten through. They were right over him, just a hundred miles
away--and they might as well be on the other side of the sun. "What's
the trouble? We've been looking for you since--"

"Listen!" cried Ricker. "No time to explain. I'm trapped _inside_ the
planet--under the ice. There's a cave here. Made with Adison's Heat
Unit. I've found out what's behind Molly Borden. They have ten thousand
ships here, plan to attack Earth. Senator Trexel's the leader--they're
coming up after me now. You must do something. Quick!"

"What? How? How can we get to you?"

How _could_ they get down here! Patrol ships didn't have these heat
guns. God!

Glancing down, Ricker saw the ships closing beneath him like a flock of
starved condors. In a moment they'd be in gun range.

"Gotta keep moving," he told the radio. "They're coming fast. Stand by
and I'll try to think of something."

He streaked up to the roof of the icy chamber, sailed fast toward the
far end.

And suddenly he did think of something--something so simple it seemed
foolish.

"Listen!" he yelled to the radio. "Turn your ships around. _Sit down_
on the ice! Give your rockets half throttle and let gravity pull you
down as the ice melts under you. It'll take a long time but I may hold
'em off till--"

A flash of white lightning streaked across his view plate. The ship
steamed, sweat formed little beads on Ricker's forehead, ran into his
eyes. One was diving in front of him. Ricker squeezed his trigger, saw
the ship flash into floating dust before him. He saw another coming
down from above.

With a quick jerk of the wheel, he zoomed up and over, wheeled into a
swift Immelman and dived.

The buildings, the field, the standing planes below whirled, surged up
to meet him like a nightmare of falling.

He pulled out of the dive not fifty feet from the tops of the
buildings, zoomed away again with the planes hot on his tail. They'd
followed him down, were streaming after him like a swarm of hornets.

For the next ten minutes those below witnessed the weirdest dog fight
in all flying history. There wasn't room to make a running battle of
it. It was dive, zoom, streak from one end of the cave to the other
like hawks fighting in a cage. Ricker twisted into every contortion his
straining jets allowed. And still those ships closed in relentlessly,
often striking one of their own number--which closeness of battle was
Ricker's only ally. The ships closed in slowly, inexorably formed a
ring of murderous heat around him.

It was a losing fight. Ricker knew it. He couldn't elude them forever.
One well-timed blast and he'd go down in a swirl of ashes and smoke.
And his constant fighting the controls to avoid the ships, to avoid
crashing the walls and the roof, was wearing his arms to dead aching
weights.

The ships tried strategy. They divided, Ricker saw, into five groups,
waited for him at each corner of the chamber while the others gave
chase. And these groups closed in with each wild dive he made.

Soon they would have him trapped between them. Well, the game was about
up. It was a matter of minutes now. He might as well do as much damage
as he could before they got him.

He banked over in a last dive, hoping only that the Patrol got in
before the ships saw them. Even the Patrol wouldn't have much chance
against these weapons. As he went over, saw the floor of the cave
revolve around like a side wall, a streak of lightning struck the tail
of his ship with an impact that jarred every rivet. The ship went
crazy, spun down like a shot bird.

Ricker hit the wheel with all the failing strength of his arms. More
by will power than anything else, he pulled out into a shaky glide.
But try as he might there was no response from the elevator jets. He
couldn't rise again. The ships fell like stones upon him for the kill.

Below, looming rapidly in the windows, he saw the long line of
buildings, the thick circle of ships resting on the field. He fired
full-blast as he passed over them. Buildings burst, split into halves
as if an earthquake had struck them. Ships disappeared in a wide swath
under him, hundreds went up in smoke.

The field fled beneath him, a deep smoldering trench following his
flaming guns. The house across the field and the silver dome loomed up,
raced toward him with the speed of a locomotive.

"The power plant!" Ricker suddenly yelled it at the top of his voice.
If he could crash that--!

With a supreme effort--he didn't know how he did it for the ship was
beyond all control--he keeled over into the metal dome as he left the
field.

The painted wall of silver filled his viewplate. Each rivet stood out.
He could have counted them. He saw the nose of the ship push into the
metal. The glass of the viewplate caved in upon him. The instrument
panel reared up, smashed him in the face with an ear-splitting
explosion.

The world splintered in a hell of sound....

Oddly, Ricker wasn't knocked out. When the ship stopped bucking, he
found himself sitting amidst the twisted wreckage of the controls,
smoke curling through the torn hull and his face wet and sticky.

His mind was numb, unthinking as he fingered a swelling lump between
his eyes. His fingers came away red. He crawled out of the ship. Wires,
tubes, warped transformers and machinery were everywhere. He heard a
hum of ships outside. It was dark in the room, the shadowed wreckage
reared in grotesque shapes like dancing demons. He couldn't move his
right arm and, looking down, saw that his whole side was stained with
warm blood. A feeling of coldness penetrated his dulled senses. It was
like a deep ice cave.

Ricker limped to the door of the ruined powerhouse, stared out upon a
scene like a polar twilight. Gray hulks, ships, bordered the ghostly
field and black silhouettes were the factory buildings across the
dismal space. Where the heat units had been were scarecrow towers, a
sputtering orange flame at each peak--like small dying suns. Their
heat was gone. The air was deadly cold, not the biting cold of a north
wind but the numb rigid cold of breathless freezing. Yet the cold was
alive, moving. It seemed to push against his body like air pressure.
The temperature fell degree after degree as he stood there, like a
thermometer with the red fluid leaking out the bottom.

Ricker smiled. He had destroyed the powerplant, the heat units were
dying. The place was returning to ice again....

He passed a weary hand across his clotted forehead. Although he had
destroyed himself, the work of Trexel was also ruined. It was worth it,
his thoughts came slowly. The hell inside Neptune would return to its
frozen gases.

How long had it been since he crashed? It seemed hours. But it must
have been seconds for ships suddenly landed out on the field in a storm
of rocket fire. As he grew weak from loss of blood and the cold, he
noticed a surging dark wave sweep across the field toward the ships.
Then the sound of shouts, screams, shrieks reached his ears. It was
the clamor of fear itself. Slowly he realized it was men racing across
the field, now white with frost. The men swarmed around the ships. He
could see little in the dim light of the red flares, could make out
only a writhing mass of vague shapes around the silver ships which
reared above them like huge turtles.

As he watched, the voices grew weaker, died to low cries of crawling
terror and despair. And Ricker felt himself grow weaker. The cold crept
into his bones, into his heart, into his brain. He couldn't think fast.
He thought slowly, leaning against the door. The icy walls of the place
seemed to be sliding toward him, the roof descending. The field was
cold as a snow-covered grave.

The voices out on the field were hushed. All was quiet, soundless with
the utter silence of deep hidden places.

He was lying on the ground beside the door, staring up at the black
glistening roof that was moving down upon him. He didn't think any
more. He was very tired.

A hulking shadow stood over him. He felt it more than saw it. He saw
two hands reach down. They dragged him across the field. He could see
everything quite clearly but his eyes seemed set in a vise-like single
focus. He noticed the twin tracks his heels made in the frost on the
field....

Then it was warm, a soft clinging warmth that seemed to flow throughout
his tired body--like life flowing into him again. He was lying on
something soft and comfortable.

He opened his eyes, saw a woman's face before him.

Ricker stared at the face a long time. It was a perfect oval, wreathed
in jet black hair, molded with deft yet full lips and a firm nose. The
eyes were green. It was Molly Borden. Her green eyes were glistening,
wet with tears....

"Why did you save me, Molly Borden?" he asked finally.

"I am not Molly Borden," she said. "I am _Dorothy Adison_."

       *       *       *       *       *

The words meant nothing to Ricker for a moment. He just lay there
staring up at her. Then with a shock like cold water, the meaning of
her words crashed upon him.

"Dorothy Adison--!"

"Don't talk," she said softly. "Lie still and drink this." She put a
glass of warm liquid to his lips. He gulped thirstily and the stuff
darted through his veins like fire. Quick strength suffused his body.

He lay there, panting a moment, then slowly struggled up on an elbow.
His right arm was tightly bandaged with a piece of silver cloth. He saw
it was a strip from the woman's dress, which was in tatters above her
rounded knees. She sat on the end of the sofa. She was crying, softly
like a child.

"Dorothy Adison," breathed Ricker. "You lie! She was blonde--an
Earthian. You're Venusian and--It's a lie!"

She wiped her eyes with the back of her hand. "I dyed my hair," she
said.

"But your eyes--they're Venusian--slanting--!"

"Makeup," she said.

Ricker sank back upon the sofa. "But why?" he said. "Why!" None of this
made sense. Molly Borden confessed killing Benjamin Adison and now she
said she wasn't Molly Borden but Adison's daughter....

"You--killed your own father?" It was the only thing Ricker could think
of to say.

"Trexel killed him," she said. The phrase seemed to harden her again.
"I saw him coming out of the laboratory after father was--. But I
couldn't prove it. He had a perfect alibi. And after the inquest, he
tried to kill me--twice. I became Molly Borden to escape him, then
got the idea of following it through. There was just a chance that
confessing the murder might arouse Trexel's curiosity, make him get in
touch with me. I took the chance--and it worked...."

It was too much to believe. "You mean you acted suspicious, let the
police catch you and burned something to look like those plans? You
risked a life sentence on Pluto--!"

"It was the only way. I played free-lance thief--Trexel believed I was
at the laboratory after he left. I told him I stole what I thought were
the plans. I told him the police frightened me into a confession of the
murder--and they _were_ none too gentle."

"But why didn't you tell the police--before you left for Pluto. They
could have--"

"I could trust no one. At first I planned to tell at the last minute
but after his message came--in jail--I knew I couldn't. It was
delivered by the district attorney himself. He told me I would be taken
from the ship before I reached Pluto."

Ricker understood a lot of things now. It was like finishing a jig-saw
puzzle, when all the pieces are suddenly seen to fit. "Does Trexel know
who you are yet?"

"I tried to kill him after you left," she said. "But I had only a
knife--he was too strong. You saved my life when you stole the ship.
Trexel went after you. I watched from the window."

Ricker glanced toward the window. The light was gone and in the room
itself crept the chill of the darkness outside. The heat units were
dull red embers.

Ricker sat up quickly. Swift pain drove him back down. "We've got to
get out of here!" he said. "This place'll be a block of ice in no time,
air and all! We can steal a ship and--"

"Steal it?" said the woman. "There's no one to stop you. The workers
are dead. There's nothing to stop you--but the cold outside. It's
sudden death out there now. It's too late."

Ricker gritted his teeth, arose despite the lightning pain. He waved
aside her restraining hand, sat on the edge of the sofa till the
weakness passed.

"We've got to get away," he said. "We can't stay here. We'll die."

"I know," said Molly Borden-Dorothy Adison quietly. "We'll die. It was
far below zero when I went out to look for you. By now, the roof must
have lowered half-way down--it's probably 200 degrees below zero out
there now. But I don't mind the dying so much. It's that I've failed
that hurts. Trexel got away--father is unavenged."

Ricker had forgotten about Trexel for the moment. The thought brought
him to his feet and he forgot his pain. Both Trexel and Vanger must
have escaped. They were up in one of the planes. They had only to melt
through the ice. "Trexel got away--"

"_Yes_," a calm deep voice from the door. "And he will complete his
purpose!"

Ricker turned slowly toward the door. He heard the woman gasp.

Trexel and Vanger stood there. They wore heavy electro-suits, heat
steaming from them into the chill room. Trexel held a pistol in his
right hand.

"Notice the window, telenewsman," he said.

Ricker turned to the window, saw bright daylight outside. The heat
units were on again--!

       *       *       *       *       *

"Yes," said Trexel. "The units are working. Did you think we would
depend on a single source of power? It took a few moments but it was
simple to switch on an auxiliary plant. And most of the men will
revive, the cold struck them so quickly. Before you know it, everything
will be as good as new." He smiled his fat, pasty smile. "Watch them,
Vanger, while I get out of this suit."

The Martian pulled his own gun, Trexel struggled out of the hot
clothing, dropped it to the floor and sat down heavily. Ricker stared
as if he'd been struck with a mallet.

"Now," the fat man said, pouring a drink, "I'd like to clear up just
one minor point before we dispense with you two. Did Ricker know who
you were all the time, Miss Adison?"

The woman didn't answer, looked at him like a caged animal. But to
Ricker there flooded a sudden ray of hope. Trexel might still believe
his stall about the President knowing his whereabouts. Did he _still_
have an ace in the hole?

"Yes," he spoke for the woman, "Miss Adison and I have been working
together for weeks. But that doesn't matter, Trexel. In a few moments
your hide-out'll be swarming with Patrol ships. They know where I am
and they'll be here any moment."

The fat man laughed. "Still trying to pull that stuff," he scoffed.
"Well, it doesn't go over again. I contacted Washington and my agents
tell me there's no truth whatsoever in your story. No one knows where
you are. You were both working entirely on your own." He raised his
pistol. "But enough of this!"

"Wait," said Vanger. He coughed behind his hand. "Why shoot the woman?
Give her to me and she'll never speak a word of what she's seen if I
have to cut her tongue out."

Trexel smiled. "So you, too, have been attracted by Miss Borden's
beauty. But perhaps you won't like her, so well as Dorothy Adison,
Vanger. Have you thought how she would look without that yellow dye on
her skin, without that makeup on her eyes and with Dorothy Adison's
blonde hair?"

"I like blondes," said Vanger. "And if I remember rightly, Dorothy
Adison was a beauty in her own right."

"Well," said Trexel. "A dead woman's little use to anyone. If you'll
remember about that tongue-cutting--"

Vanger laughed till he began coughing.

Trexel raised the gun, pointed it full in Ricker's face and laughed.
Ricker could see his fat knuckle whiten as it squeezed the trigger.

Molly Borden screamed, flung herself in front of him. The Martian
jerked her aside. Ricker's good left arm came up. Then it halted in
mid-air.

To his ears came a sound like bubbling water to a man dying of thirst.
He didn't believe it at first, paused, lips parted, listening. Then his
eyes danced with a wild light.

Trexel heard it too. His face was like chalk. He stood there with the
gun still poised, a great bear-like statue. It was the hum of rockets!
Not the rockets of Trexel's ships, the jets of the Stellar Patrol. It
was! The Patrol had gotten through!

Trexel stood like a man of stone. For a full ten seconds he didn't move.

Ricker knocked the woman aside, dropped to the floor. The gun flamed.
Trexel pulled the trigger wildly. Ricker snatched the glass table from
the floor beside him, hurled it up into the man's ghastly face. His
thick mouth burst into a red spray as glass crashed. He fought to get
rid of the table, its jagged edges cut into his arms and face. Ricker
hurled a chair. It hit the man's head like a pole striking cement.
Trexel's gun fell from his hand, thudded on the floor. He sagged down
beside the wall.

The Martian didn't pull his gun. He stood, staring, listening to the
cries, the sound of the planes and the guns outside. He didn't appear
to see what was going on in the room. Suddenly he whirled, bolted to
the door.

In the heat of his fury, Ricker flew after him.

Vanger dashed down the corridor, Ricker ten feet behind. He went
through the door, started out upon the field. As Ricker reached the
door, he saw Vanger stop suddenly, look up. The din of the Patrol boats
was thunder in the echoing hollow. The air was filled with them. The
field was littered with men running, falling and lying still. A boat
swooped down toward the lone Martian standing there, fell like a bird
of prey. Vanger started to run back toward the building. Tat, tat, tat!
A long flaming line followed him, slowly, like a curse. Little puffs
of dust spurted around him. The puffs stopped. The Martian halted. He
stared at Ricker in the doorway and his face was puzzled. He coughed
and his chin, his shirt became cherry-red. Then he crumpled to the
ground.

Ricker turned, walked slowly back to the room.

At the door, he paused. He saw Dorothy Adison standing over the
motionless hulk of Trexel. She swayed, one hand at her throat. In her
other hand was Trexel's gun. Where the head of the fat man had been was
a dark, dripping ball of horror.

The woman dropped the pistol. It struck the man's body, rolled to the
floor.

Then she was suddenly in Ricker's arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lounging deep in his red-leather chair, Bill Ricker squinted out at the
port as the sleek space ship streamed through the darkness. He could
see nothing outside but a big, humorous-eyed young man who was his own
reflection and the green tinted star that was Earth--home.

"I hear you got a raise," said the tall blonde women in the seat beside
him.

"Yep," said Ricker. "The Chief tried to get out of it but since the
government offered his star reporter twice as much, he had to give in."
He stared at the woman queerly. With her golden hair, her clear emerald
eyes and perfect features she possessed a strange loveliness.

"Madam," he said. "What do you plan to do with your life? Have you no
aims, no ideals, no guiding light?"

"Nope," she said. "I'll just follow you around, I suppose."

"And what if I get tired of it?"

The woman smiled. "I hit you with a wrench once--"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ICE PLANET ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
