ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Into the Sun, by John L. Chapman

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Into the Sun

Author: John L. Chapman

Release Date: March 20, 2021 [eBook #64889]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK INTO THE SUN ***




                             INTO THE SUN

                          by JOHN L. CHAPMAN

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                             Comet May 41.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"There's nothing like having a good quart of scotch with you when
you're falling into the sun," said Lejeune. "Won't you join me,
gentlemen?"

"Listen to him," sputtered Geitz. "He's enjoying this. He likes being
cooked in a cubby-holed space ship; he likes to sit here day after day
while the floor beneath him is burning his shoes."

Lejeune, the wiry French biologist, lowered the half-empty bottle from
his lips and scowled at the ship's doctor. "But not for long, my dear
Geitz, not for long. Our fate lies within a few hours. The ship will be
drawn closer and closer to the sun. The heat will become unbearable.
Then--pffffft!--the ship will be a little spark--"

"You're a pain," growled Captain Rogers.

Lejeune raised his eyebrows quizzically and grinned. He said nothing,
walked to a bunk, and sat down beside Lane, the pilot.

The silence continued for some time, broken only by the footfalls of
Captain Rogers in his nervous pacing. There was nothing to do but wait.
The four of them knew that. The ship couldn't hold out much longer; it
would burst under the terrific strain, would be reduced instantly to a
cinder by the sun's blistering heat.

They were trapped, falling into the sun inevitably.

"One meteorite," said Lejeune casually, "one hurtling fragment of some
interstellar gadabout which chose to cross our path at the wrong time.
That's all it took to smash our jets and send the four of us toward
that fiery mass."

"Shut up!" snapped Rogers. "It's bad enough without your moaning!"

Oblivious to the captain's words, Lejeune patted his bottle
affectionately.

"In the name of heaven!" growled Geitz, leaping to his feet. "Why do we
sit here like a lot of mummies? There's a rocket capsule aboard, you
say, with sufficient power to carry one of us to Mercury. Why don't we
use it? I ask you, Rogers."

"You answered that yourself," the captain said bluntly. "True,
that rocket capsule can carry one of us to Mercury. Just one,
understand--there's room for but one person in a capsule. I ask
you--which one of us would that be?"

"That's beside the point," muttered Geitz, as he wiped beads of
perspiration from his forehead. "You don't seem to realize what
valuable information we possess. Think of that cylinder in the supply
room. It contains all the photographs we took of Mercurian plant and
animal life, and the photos of Vulcan. To say nothing of the data
concerning the sun's corona--why, our analysis would be of infinite
value to earth scientists!"

"Quite so," Rogers said crisply. "But while you're thinking about
that, don't forget the three men who would be left aboard this
ship--think of what would happen to them." He stopped his pacing and
shook a finger under the doctor's imposing Van Dyke. "Do you know what
would happen to them, Geitz? They'd burn alive--they'd cook--while on
earth your scientists would hop around in glee over a few photographs
of Mercury!"

Geitz sat down heavily, exhausted.

"The doc's right, Rogers," Lane interposed. "There's no reason for all
four of us dying when it's possible for one to gain freedom. And for
God's sake if you're going to do something do it in a hurry! We'll burn
before you make up your mind!"

"My mind's made up," Rogers retorted. "I'm staying. In case you've
forgotten, a captain is the last man to leave his ship. As for you
three, fight it out among yourselves. Draw straws--anything. The
consequences will be your worry."

"I'll stay," murmured Lejeune, lifting his bottle to his lips.

"You don't mean that," said the youthful Lane. "You want to go--we all
want to go--but it can only be one of us."

He fell silent, placing his head in his hands. Rogers resumed his
pacing.

The ship drifted on, slowly it seemed, ever nearing the solar furnace,
falling toward the flames that were eager to dissolve the tiny cruiser
locked in an unyielding gravitational pull.

"Soon," mused Lejeune. "Soon we'll be too close for the rocket capsule
to break free of the sun's drag. Then there will be no doubt as to what
will be done. Ha!"

"Damnation!" yelled Lane, jerking erect. "How can you be so confounded
happy about it all? We're falling into the sun, man--doesn't that have
any effect upon you?"

Lejeune shrugged. "Perhaps. We are falling into the sun, yes. We'll
die, no doubt, so my future is definite. I know what is coming. Soon I
shall be but a tiny spark, drifting nowhere in a big sun. Do I regret
being a tiny spark? Not when I have my scotch with me."

"You're a smart guy," Lane thrust at him. "Maybe you can tell us how to
choose the rocket capsule's passenger."

"Simple, my friend. The captain won't go--he must stay with the ship. I
have no relatives, only my scotch, so I am satisfied. The doctor must
stay--he's too fat to get in the capsule. M'sieu Lane, the honor is
yours. Au revoir."

"Don't be crazy--"

"Do not worry about us, my friend. We will find something to do.
Perhaps I can interest the doctor and the captain in three-handed
bridge. If not, we'll wait. We'll go soon--sssss! Like that."

Lane buried his face in his hands again.

For a few moments there was an unbroken silence. From the
double-insulated hulls emanated a dry hotness that scorched the already
blistered air. The hotness increased, rising to a fierce, intolerable
degree. It grew, inexorably, pressing against their lungs--

Lane floundered crazily, leaped across the control room and plucked a
gun from his locker. "This'll make it easier," he gasped, lifting the
weapon to his head. "Somebody's got to fly that capsule--"

[Illustration: _Lane plucked a gun from his locker. "This'll make it
easier," he gasped, lifting the weapon to his head._]

       *       *       *       *       *

For ten minutes no one spoke. It was hard to speak--each breath was a
torture to the lungs.

"Lejeune," said Geitz finally, in short gasps, "in God's name will you
get into the capsule and take that cylinder to Mercury? One of us has
got to go--for Lane's sake!"

Lejeune, sprawled out on the pilot's bunk, made no reply. The captain
stood before the dull gray view-screen, watched him a moment,
thoughtfully. "Can't you reverse the field?" he asked at length. "I'd
like to see the System just once more."

Rogers had already made a few deft motions on the instrument panel.
Presently, the screen came to life. Its scope possessed a bright
halo--the sun's glow. In the center of the screen Mercury was visible,
a faint, receding globe. Rogers moved the scope slowly until he found
the feeble point of light that designated the earth. He watched it
grimly. "Satisfied, Geitz?"

"Dr. Geitz is dead," came Lejeune's monotone.

Rogers turned. The doctor lay on his face, immobile and silent.

"The heat," said Rogers, "and his age."

They carried him to the supply room, laid him beside the inert form of
Lane.

The two men stood watching earth's dull glimmer on the screen. The heat
pressed them relentlessly, always increasing--

"Take the capsule, Lejeune. You've no reason to remain."

"I prefer to stay, Captain Rogers. You have relatives--it is only
proper that you should fly the capsule."

"Under any circumstances, Lejeune, the captain does not leave his ship
in distress. Should I return to earth without the rest of you, I would
lose my rank unquestionably. Now, before we draw too close, take the
cylinder to Mercury! You're a fool not to!"

"M'sieu Rogers, I possess magnificent renown as a fool. I shall remain."

"But the cylinder--"

"The cylinder, Captain Rogers, be damned."

They looked at each other a long minute. Rogers, stripped to the waist,
perspiring, his thick black hair hanging in his eyes; Lejeune, small,
wiry, faint traces of a smile lurking on his lips.

Suddenly the floor shook beneath them. A violent shudder passed through
the ship from stem to stern. The momentum of the sunward fall increased.

Regaining his balance, Rogers gasped, "Good God--the capsule!"

They saw a flash of light on the screen, saw the tiny rocket streak
for Mercury in a flare of brilliance. It dwindled rapidly to a
receding speck that was swallowed in the depths of space.

Speechless, Rogers and Lejeune raced to the supply room. They found
Lane there, but no Geitz and no cylinder. Needles on the face of the
capsule compartment jutting out from the wall registered zero.

"He was faking," said Rogers. "He wasn't dead--he merely pretended, the
coward!"

Lejeune took a quick drink, threw a sidelong glance at Lane's bloody
form, and walked slowly back to the control room. Rogers followed. The
clicking of their heels made a sullen echo upon the blistered walls.

On the screen, something dim and remote was moving, growing in size.
Rogers hastened forward in amazement.

"It's Geitz!" he breathed. "Lord--he was too late--he's falling back!"

"A pity," said Lejeune. "He has so much longer to wait now. It must be
horrible."

"And the cylinder," Rogers sighed. "All that information will be lost."
His tired, bloodshot eyes followed the little capsule's course across
the screen, back toward the flaming sun.

"Perhaps," remarked Lejeune, "there will be another expedition to
Mercury some day, another group of scientists, with a better ship and
better equipment. And no meteorite will prevent their safe return to
earth." He hesitated, took two tumblers from a nearby cabinet and
filled them with the remaining contents of his bottle. He handed one of
them to Rogers, took the other himself. "A final toast, Captain?"

Rogers accepted. "To the next Mercurian expedition, Lejeune."

"The next expedition, Captain Rogers."

They drank, and Lejeune sucked in a breath. "I say--it's getting a bit
warm in here, isn't it?"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK INTO THE SUN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
