ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of It's Raining Frogs!, by Milton Lesser

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: It's Raining Frogs!

Author: Milton Lesser

Release Date: April 12, 2021 [eBook #65067]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IT'S RAINING FROGS! ***




                          IT'S RAINING FROGS!

                           By MILTON LESSER

            George didn't like the idea of little red frogs
          raining down on him from a clear sky. But a pretty
         girl falling into his arms was quite another matter!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             December 1950
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"_We shall pick up an existence by its frogs.... Wise men have tried
other ways. They have tried to understand our state of being, by
grasping at its stars, or its arts, or its economics. But, if there is
an underlying oneness of all things, it does not matter where we begin,
whether with stars, or laws of supply and demand, or frogs, or Napoleon
Bonaparte. One measures a circle, beginning anywhere._"

                                                  --_Charles Fort, LO!_

       *       *       *       *       *

It was raining. There wasn't a cloud in the sky, but it was raining.
George wished it were raining cats and dogs, but it wasn't. Anything
would be better than this. It was raining frogs. Little red frogs.

It was strictly a local rain. The frogs seemed to germinate from a
spot somewhere above George's head, and then they spread out and came
tumbling down in a cone-shaped area some fifteen feet across. The worst
part of it was that George was in the center of the cone.

[Illustration: It was as if a hole had opened in space, pouring forth
the stream of red frogs....]

The frogs fell on him. They seemed to be concentrated most heavily
in the center of the cone, and a good percentage of them landed on
him--mostly on his head--and then bounced off to fall on the sand.
George didn't like it.

He moved. He got up off the sand and ran half a dozen paces closer to
the surf, but he still felt the little red frogs striking him. The spot
was still directly, over his head; George was not sure how high up. He
was still the center of the cone.

"Myra! Hey, Myra," George called his wife. He could see her head
bobbing up and down in the waves and the powerful strokes of her arms
through the water showed George that she had heard him call. But she
would be angry. As soon as he shouted, the frogs stopped falling. First
the downpour became a drizzle, and then there were no frogs at all.
Myra would be very angry. She was all wrapped up in this new idea of
hers, and she would be angry. If he hadn't yelled, more frogs would
have fallen--and there's no telling what else, George thought.

The Bikini suit was not in style this year, but Myra wore it because
she knew she looked good in it. George watched her run toward him and
watched her shake her dark hair loose after she removed the bathing
cap. Then he looked at her figure and he knew it was good, so good that
he unconsciously felt the spare tire beginning to blossom out around
his waist, and he blushed. That was another trouble, he always blushed.
Not only that, but he was very fair-skinned. They could spend the
entire summer at their seaside bungalow in this secluded area, and Myra
would be bronzed like an Indian maiden. But George would turn red and
then he would peel. Then he would turn red all over again and then he
would peel again. And he had freckles all over.

But he stopped thinking of that now. It was a general consideration.
The specific consideration bothered him more: there was one circular
area of little red frogs, fifteen feet across. Then there was a trail
of little red frogs on the sand, five running steps long. And then
there was another fifteen foot circle of them. Most of the frogs were
still, but some of them hopped about, and soon the circles had become
irregular areas.

Myra came up to him breathlessly. "Oh, George!" she cooed. "You're
magnificent, really magnificent. Frogs this time. Little red frogs.
You're so--so _Fortean_."

George sighed. He had a lot of friends, and many of them complained
because their wives would call this or that thing Freudian. But
they had sympathy: a lot of men had wives riding the Freudian
merry-go-round. This was worse. To Myra things were _Fortean_. George
had seen pictures of this man Fort--a nice enough looking guy with a
cherubic face and a ruddy complexion, a turned up nose and big bushy
eyebrows. A mild, harmless man. He had passed away; for some twenty
years now he had been dead. But he could impress people. His work had
impressed Myra.

He thought we're _property_, or things are teleported from one place
to another, or we're being fished for, or you can tell a world by its
frogs, or science is whacky and word-nutty and sophistic hooey....
George had heard it all dozens of times. Myra had told him. Myra had
told him so much that he thought he knew Fort's philosophy by heart.
A lot of ridiculous hog-wash--until the rain. How could he call it
ridiculous now?

       *       *       *       *       *

"See?" Myra said triumphantly. "See, George? This time it's frogs.
Yesterday it was beetles, and the day before, those little birds--and
everything was red."

"Maybe they're communists," George suggested feebly.

"Oh--"

"Well, that's as good an explanation as any."

"No, it's not. Red is the predominant color of whatever world they come
from, so they're red. Or else it could just be coincidence, but I doubt
that. And I told you you were a good catalyst."

"So I'm a good catalyst. So I can make rain. They could have used me
back East a few months ago--if they wanted a rain of frogs."

"Or beetles or birds," Myra reminded him.

"Yeah. Beetles and birds, too." George said this matter-of-factly,
but then he felt his knees start to tremble. It was the inevitable
after-effect. This was _strange_. It couldn't be happening to him. It
never rained that kind of rain, even if Fort had said that it did, and
even if Myra believed that Fort was right. How could it rain like that?
George knew what caused rain, and by no stretch of his imagination
could organic matter be the result. Any sort of organic matter. And
least of all little red frogs. He always associated frogs with mud--and
the idea of little red frogs coming from the sky was too incredible to
consider.

But there were the frogs on the beach.

George stroked the sand gingerly with the toes of one foot, clearing
frogs away until he had room to sit down. He sat.

One of the little red frogs jumped into his lap, and he stood up
again--so fast that he almost upended Myra.

"My gosh, George. You may be a good catalyst, but after that you're
hopeless. That's where I come in."

George was sorry he had decided to play along with his wife. She had
given him a test, and that part he enjoyed, for all he did was shoot
dice for several hours. Something about psychokinesis, Myra said. And
George scored high. So high that Myra had cried: "You're positively
Fortean!"

And then had come the birds, the beetles, and the frogs. All red.

"Listen," George said. "This is the last time. This is positively the
last time."

"The last time? Last time for what?"

"The last time that I let you use me as a--a catalyst. I can't go
around making it rain like that. We're in a deserted spot out here, so
it isn't too bad. But what if this happened when people were around?
What then?"

"Silly, why do you think we came to this bungalow for the summer? And
besides, even if people were around, why would they think _you_ caused
the rain? If you insist on calling it rain."

George did not like the way she said _you_. It was as if he didn't
amount to much--but she always spoke to him like that. He knew he was
no world-beater. He had an adequate job and he made an adequate salary,
but he just didn't stack up like some of the men he knew. Or some of
the men Myra knew. It always got him angry when she said _you_ that way.

"What do you mean, why should they think I caused the rain? Who else
can cause it, that's what I want to know? Who else can cause it?"

She smiled, and if it was a smile of triumph, George pretended not to
notice it. "That's what I mean," she said, putting her arms around his
neck. "You're so wonderful. Only you can cause it. Let's go into the
house, George."

He grunted and he disentangled her arms. Then he took her hand and
walked back across the sand to the house. And he held his head very
high so he wouldn't have to look at all the little frogs on the beach.

       *       *       *       *       *

They sat in the living room and the sun was setting, throwing long
shadows across the room through the big picture window. George sipped
his bourbon and then he put his glass down. Two drinks on an empty
stomach always put that dreamy feeling in his head. He wanted to get up
and pour himself another, but it was so pleasant just sitting here and
thinking of nothing that he decided against it.

"You're ready now," Myra told him. "Oh, you're really perfect now.
Remember, George, just think of nothing. Don't think of a thing. Lean
back, relax, and keep your mind a blank. It shouldn't be too hard."

There was that undertone of scorn again, but now George didn't feel
like doing a thing about it. She was right: it wouldn't be too hard. He
had had his two drinks of bourbon, and now he would just sit back and
relax, like Myra told him. Besides, he had nothing to worry about. It
couldn't very well rain anything inside the house.

"It's just like the poltergeists," Myra was saying, but George hardly
heard her. "There are so many cases of poltergeist phenomena on record,
of the little mischievous ghosts who throw dishes or stones or who
cause pointless little accidents. And in each case, there's a catalyst.
Usually it's a little child, and more often than not, a girl, but
that isn't always the case. The important thing is, there has to be a
catalyst."

"That's me," George said proudly.

"Yes, that's you. My George, the best damn catalyst that ever lived."
Myra had had her bourbon, too. "You know, science always explains away
the poltergeists, but they do a pretty awful job of it. A lot of people
aren't satisfied. Like Fort. Like me."

Was that a compliment? Was any of it a compliment? George thought so,
but he couldn't be sure. His mind was fading into a pleasant haze of
deep red, like the sunset. His eyes were opened and he was looking into
the sunset, and that's why he saw the deep red. But then he noted a
fact which would have startled him, only it didn't now. He was tired
and he closed his eyes and still the deep red persisted, stronger than
ever. It didn't startle him because he was too perfectly relaxed, and
because the deep red was so soothing....

"Were you calling me?" the voice said.

       *       *       *       *       *

George jumped up. He thought he had heard the voice, but he couldn't be
sure. Now the sun had set completely and a heavy dusk settled over the
room.

"What did you say, George? George, did you ask me anything?"

George said no, he didn't, and he got some slight satisfaction from the
fact that Myra's voice sounded frightened. But then a slow chill crept
up his spine and spread all over his body. Myra had heard the voice too.

"Well, were you calling me? Come, come, I haven't got all day, and if
you weren't calling me, then I'll go home."

George gulped, and he heard Myra choke off a little whimper in her
throat. Then George smiled. Hell, one of their friends from down the
beach had come, and he decided to act mysterious here in the darkness.
It was Andy. Andy would play practical jokes like that. Andy, the life
of the party.

George strode jauntily to the light switch. "Hah, hah, had us fooled
for a minute, Andy old boy. And nope, the answer is that we didn't call
you. But you're always welcome here, you know that. Come on and join us
in some bourbon."

His hand was on the light switch now, and he flicked it up. The room
was bathed in the pale white of the fluorescent lamps, and George
turned around to say hello to Andy.

He stood in the center of the room. He stood there regarding George
with a half smile on his lips, a playful smile. You couldn't tell his
age and there was nothing special about his features. But the half
smile remained on his lips like something permanent. He was definitely
not Andy.

"As you can see, I'm not this Andy person."

"No. You're not," said George.

"Now, then. Who called me? Which one of you called me?"

Myra's voice was husky. The way it sometimes was at night, after a few
drinks. The way George liked it. Only now she was scared. "I guess we
both--called you."

"I wouldn't have come myself, of course, except that the message was so
urgent. The call has never come out that strong before. I'm not just
speaking about that from memory, of course. I'm king now but I haven't
been around that long. There are records--and your call is twice as
strong as any of the others. I could have sent an assistant, naturally,
but I figured if the call was this strong I'd come myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

Humor him, George thought. He's just a nut who came in off the beach.
Only the reasoning was lousy. It stank. The door was locked and the big
picture window was locked from the inside, so he could not have come in
off the beach. George sighed.

"This is silly," the man was saying. "You put through such an urgent
call that I come here myself. Then, when I arrive, no one will tell me
what for."

"I know!" Myra cried. "You're from the world of the red frogs."

"What say?"

"I said you're from the world of the red frogs. You rained."

"Yes, I reign. I've been reigning for eleven years now, ever since my
father died. Actually, though, it's open to question. While I'm the
titular head, there's my wife to consider. She does a lot of reigning
herself. In fact, she'll be pretty angry when she learns I answered
the call myself. Below my dignity or some such thing. She always wants
me to be dignified, but that's stupid, because she's anything but
dignified herself. You know, I often think it isn't any fun to be king."

"That's nice," George said.

"I mean," Myra said, "you _rained_. Rained--r-a-i-n-e-d, like the
frogs."

"Oh, the frogs. Yes, they would come through first, of course.
Something about making sure the co-ordination is right. A messenger
could go straight through at once, but that would be dangerous, and
if the co-ordination were off, he'd be a sorry mess. Frogs or bugs or
sometimes birds, we send anything through to make sure. Anyway, what do
you want?"

"Now that you mention it, I don't know. I guess we don't want anything.
We were just experimenting," Myra explained.

"Experimenting? Will you stop kidding? With a call as strong as that,
experimenting? I wasn't born yesterday, sister. Look, don't be afraid
of my wife. She doesn't know where I've gone and it will be some time
before she can find me, so tell me the truth."

"That's the truth. I knew we'd get something, but I didn't know what.
We got you. My husband is very psychokinetic."

The man shrugged. "He hardly looks it."

"Oh, don't let George fool you. He's potent that way."

"That's me," George said. "I'm a terrific catalyst. Ask Myra."

"He is," Myra said.

"Well, then I see it was all a mistake. Do you think he could get me
back?"

"Of course he could get you back. You said yourself this was the
strongest call on record. Get him back, George."

George smiled. He was beginning to like this. It all depended on him.
The man with the enigmatic smile knew exactly what was going on, Myra
knew to some extent what was going on, George knew almost nothing of
it, but everything depended on him. "Why should I?" he demanded. "He
only just came, and I'm not in any hurry to send him back."

"Please," the man said, and for the first time the smile began to fade
from the corners of his mouth. "It was all a mistake, and now I'd
better get back home before my wife finds out."

George felt cocky. "Well, it was your mistake, not mine, and I don't
feel like sending you back yet. So I guess you'll stay right here."

"You're not serious?"

"Serious? You bet I'm serious. I don't even know where I'm supposed to
send you, but I'm not going to. At least not for a while yet."

"Now, look. You've got to send me back. I'm the king."

"Send him back, George. You don't know what you're playing around
with. Send him back."

"No."

"I'm the king."

"Send him back, George."

George got up and took a long drink of the bourbon. His stomach was
still empty, except for the previous bourbon, and the drink sent a warm
glow through him. "No," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

They sat there in the living room, the three of them. George on the
sofa, Myra on a straight-backed chair, and Arl cross-legged in the
middle of the floor. The king's name was Arl, he had told them that.
And then afterwards, he was silent. He was sullen, and George smiled.
He was in trouble and he did not know what to do and it all depended on
George.

"Listen, George," Arl was trying another angle. "Maybe if I tell you
what this is all about, then will you send me back?"

"I doubt it, but maybe I will. Just a slight, improbable maybe. But I
guess you're grasping at straws now. Say on."

"Better send him back, George," Myra said. "I got you into this and you
don't know what it's all about, but you better do what he says."

"Do _you_ know what it's all about?"

"No, I don't. But I know more than you, and I know that you better not
horse around."

"Well, I'll listen to what he has to say. But I better tell you now
that I doubt if I'll send him back. I didn't really call him, you did.
Now _you_ send him back."

"If I could I would. I don't want to play around like this. It can
cause trouble. If he loses his temper, George--well, just don't say I
didn't warn you."

"Unfortunately," Arl admitted, "it takes me a long time to lose my
temper. It never used to be that way. But Narka--that's the queen--has
tamed me. A king should not be so impetuous, she told me, only
she's as impetuous as hell. That's the trouble. She's all the time
telling me to do things which will make me more polite, more refined,
more cultured--none of which she does herself. The result is that
I've become more of a figurehead, and she's the real power. It's
regrettable."

"That's not an uncommon situation," George assured him. "But just what
are you titular king of?"

"Then you do want to hear my story!"

"Yeah, yeah. I said I wanted to hear it. I didn't say I'd do something
about sending you back, but go ahead and tell me if it will make you
happy."

"Okay. I'll begin with a question. Do you know anything about the
fourth dimension?"

       *       *       *       *       *

George was silent, but Myra said: "I know all about the fourth
dimension."

"You just think you do. Actually, you don't know a thing about it. A
lot of fuzzy thinking here in the world of three dimensions, but you
really don't know a thing about it."

"Oh," said Myra.

"You tell her, Arl, old boy," George said. "You tell her. That guy Fort
didn't know what he was talking about."

"Fort? Fort? Oh--yes he did. He knew _what_ he was talking about. But
he didn't know how or why. This is a world of three dimensions, right?"

"Uh-huh."

"Well, let's assume you had a world of two dimensions. Of length
and breadth, but no thickness. How would you get a world of three
dimensions?"

George said, "Search me," but Myra went into a long explanation which
George didn't understand at all.

When she finished, Arl shook his head. "Just what I thought. A lot of
fuzzy thinking. Unfortunately, you're way off the beam. It's really
simple. You have a world of two dimensions--length and breadth, and all
you have to do to get a world of three dimensions is extend that world
in a new direction--perpendicular to the first two. That direction is
up or down, as the case may be. Either way, it's a direction at right
angles to the first two, and the result is a world of three dimensions,
this world."

George said he understood. "But that doesn't mean I'm going to send
you back," he added.

Arl was all wrapped up in his explanation, and he ignored the remark.
"Now, then. The same situation applies. The same relation exists
between a world of three dimensions and one of four. You merely extend
the three dimensions out in a direction at right angles to them--a
direction which is perpendicular to length, breadth and thickness, and
the result is a world of four dimensions. That's my world."

George was feeling chipper. "Well, a pat on the backside for you," he
said. "Now I suppose you want me to send you back?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Arl waved his hand. "No. I'm not finished. Let's go a step further. If
a world of two dimensions existed--a whole world spread out perfectly
flat on this table, with no dimension other than length or breadth, a
flat world--if that world existed, do you realize all the power you, as
a three-dimensional being, would have over it?"

George said that he didn't.

"Well, suppose something was enclosed in a square on that table. Just
four lines, a square. That would be the equivalent of a cube in this
world--say, of a safe. Say there was something in that square that the
people of the flat world wanted to get out. But the square was locked.
It was just four lines, forming an enclosed space, but because there
was no such thing as up or down in that world, they couldn't get over,
those lines and get out what they were looking for. It was utterly
inaccessible.

"Now, then. You're a three-dimensional creature. All you'd have to
do is reach down, pick the item up, transport it through the third
dimension, and put it down again outside the square. You would have
done the impossible. You would have taken something out of an utterly
inaccessible place and put it elsewhere. Mysteriously.

"So, just change the situation a bit. A four dimensional being would
have the same power over this three-dimensional world. He could make
things appear and disappear, simply by transporting them through the
fourth dimension. And that, my friend, explains everything strange and
unreal and impossible which this man Fort reported. It was simply the
intervention of a four dimensional being. One of my subjects. When the
call comes through, your people are not even aware that they give it.
But when it does come through, we answer. And here the call was the
strongest on record. I'm the king and I came through myself. But we
can't come through and we can't go back without the call. That's you,
George, and it was all a mistake. Now will you send me back?"

George smiled. He enjoyed this situation. He thoroughly enjoyed it, and
he watched Myra's face turn white as he said one word:

"No."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Be reasonable, George. If you don't send me back, there'll be trouble.
I won't tell you what kind of trouble, but don't say you were not
warned in advance."

"Well, maybe you ought to tell me. What kind of trouble?"

"Narka trouble," Arl said, and George could see that the man's hands
were trembling. "When my wife finds out, she'll be mad. When Narka's
mad, she's very mad. And not just at me--she'll be on the warpath with
you, too. She'll come here and--"

"How can she come here, without your call?"

"Oh, she'll find a way. Getting back is the difficult part. Please,
George."

"No. No, I don't think so. Myra started all this, not me. I told her to
stop but she didn't want to. Now I think I'll let the two of you stew
in your own juice for a while. You can't blame me. In a sense, I'm just
an innocent bystander who happens to be a top-flight catalyst. But this
could be amusing. I'll just let things stand."

Arl turned to Myra. "Myra, do you want me to go back?"

"Yes. Yes, I suppose so. You know more about this than we do, but my
husband can be so obstinate--"

"I'm not being obstinate. This was all your idea, and now I want to
see what happens."

Arl said, "There'll be quite a mess. Not only will Narka be angry with
us, but the call will be coming through from all over, and none of our
subjects can go over without my permission. You know what that means?"

George asked him what.

"That means that there'll be a lot of situations where poltergeists
should have appeared, sort of like the old _deux ex machina_ of your
early literature, only they won't. That, my friend, will cause a mess."

George laughed. "I don't know. I've known a lot of people to get along
well enough without your poltergeists. Everyone I've ever known, in
fact. All my life."

Myra shrugged helplessly. "Honest, Arl, I'm sorry. It's just that
George is so ordinary."

George scowled. He had been on the verge of relenting. He definitely
had been on the verge of relenting. But that did it. He wouldn't relent
now.

"Can't you make him?" Myra demanded.

"No. That's the difficulty. I can't. The caller must either be unaware
or willing, and your husband is neither. There isn't a thing I can do
about it until he changes. Ordinarily, I could do many things so that
he'd see it our way--but that would necessitate popping in and out of
the fourth dimension, and without George's help, I can't do that. It
all rests with George."

"Well, maybe we can _make_ him cooperate."

"How do you mean, make him?"

"I mean physically. There are two of us and one of him and maybe we
can make him."

       *       *       *       *       *

Myra advanced, and Arl was a little slower, but presently he got the
idea, and he too came toward George. "Stay back," George warned. "Keep
away from me or I'll never change my mind, and then you'll be stuck
here forever."

"He's right," Arl said.

"No, he's not. We can make him. We can force him to change his mind."

Myra was so close now that George could reach out and touch her. He
backed up a step. Myra was young and strong and she was athletic. Every
curve of her lithe body was deceptively strong and beautiful at the
same time, and George was developing that spare tire around his middle.
It was small but it was there and George knew he was anything but
athletic. He did not want to fight with Myra, especially when Arl, who
was a head taller than George, would be helping her. It definitely was
unwise.

Myra's first attack was merely speculative. She pushed George to see if
he would fight back. He backed up two or three steps, and then he was
sitting on the sofa.

Arl was much less speculative. He reached down and yanked George to
his feet. Then he began to shake George.

"Hey, stop it!" George's wipe sounded like a rattle.

"We won't stop until you change your mind," Myra told him, and to show
that she was serious, she poked her fist in George's stomach, hard.
He felt the air _woosh_ out of his lungs, and then he was sitting on
the sofa again. At another time he might have thought this was getting
monotonous, but he didn't think so now. When Arl picked him up again,
he tried to cringe away, but Arl held him tight.

He butted his head at Arl, and the king stumbled back and away from
him, losing his grip on George's shoulders. George didn't back up; he
stalked after the king, and when he reached him he balled his right
fist and struck out with it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The contact was a bit painful, but George was happy with the result.
Arl stumbled and fell. He was all stretched out on the floor, and he
didn't try to get up.

"I did that," George said.

"You stinker. My own husband, and what a stinker you turned out to be."

"Now, my dear--" George began, sure of himself. But the words caught in
his throat. Myra threw herself at him, bodily, and George sat down. He
was sitting on the floor and then he was down flat and Myra was sitting
on his chest, and those two hammers hitting his face were her fists.
They hurt.

Myra and George had had fights before. George was not a violent man, he
knew that. He always wanted to settle things with words, and whenever
Myra lost her temper he would make it a point not to be around because
he thought she could beat him, and if she did that once, there'd be no
living with her. But now he couldn't make it a point not to be around
because Myra was sitting on his chest and he couldn't get up.

George heaved up and over, and he felt Myra roll off him. Then he sat
up and he pulled Myra across his knees. She struggled, but he held
her down with one hand and with the other he did the only thing that
a husband should do in a case like this. He spanked her. At first she
was volubly indignant, but then she began to whimper, and George didn't
stop until she was howling. He pushed her away and stood up, smoothing
the crease in his trousers. Arl's head was propped up on one elbow now,
and Arl had a dark discoloration around one of his eyes, but the look
he gave George was one of pure admiration.

"I wish I had the nerve to do that to Narka," he sighed. "That's what
she needs. I can see it now. That's what she needs."

George strode around the room jauntily. "You can if you want to, Arl.
Just because you're a king doesn't mean that you can't." Then he
turned to Myra. She was just getting up, blowing her nose in a dainty
little handkerchief.

At first George couldn't quite fathom the look she gave him. She was
angry, of course. But she was something more than angry. "George," she
said, and his name came out in a long sigh, and he knew that for the
first time he had made a conquest of his wife.

"I'll be in our city apartment," he told her. "If you want me, that's
where I'll be. And I guess you both realize my mind is made up. Arl
will remain here until I'm good and ready to send him back. Good night."

George went outside, got into the car, drove it down the dirt road to
the highway, and headed for the city.

He was whistling.

       *       *       *       *       *

George sat on his stool at the bar and ordered a straight bourbon. He
had changed his mind about going to his apartment immediately. Instead,
he had gone to this bar. He had something to celebrate. Something told
him that this business was far from finished yet, but he didn't care.
It was incredibly fantastic, but he relished the prospect of more
dealings with King Arl, and with Myra, too.

He lifted the tumbler of bourbon to his lips and sipped it. But then he
set the glass down on the bar, hard, and it toppled over. Something had
plunked on his head.

"Hey," the bartender roared "That's good bourbon. You just spilled it
all over. Now you'll say it's my fault and you'll want another."

"No," George said absently. "Forget it."

Something plunked on his head again. He put his hand up and plucked at
his hair. The thing was wet and slimy. It was a little red frog. George
held it out in front of him and then he placed it down on the bar.

"Now, look," the bartender was getting angry. "You think you're a wise
guy or something? Who ast you to bring them little animals in here?
This is a respectable joint, and I got my customers to think of."

George said he was sorry. Plunk! Another frog came down on his head. He
felt it hop off, and then he saw it alight on the bartender's shoulder.

"Yoiks! Cut it out, bud! I'm warning you, cut it out." He was a little
fat man with a bald head and his face was all red, almost like the
frogs. "You stop that, bud. I don't wanna play games with you."

George said he was sorry again and he watched the bartender brush at
the frog with one hand. It landed on the bar then it jumped twice and
landed on the hand of a customer two stools down from George.

It was a lady but she let out a very unladylike howl and stalked out
of the bar.

"She went out without paying her bill!" the bartender told George. "So
you owe me for it. Three-fifty."

George wondered about this. Arl said he was helpless without George's
call, so this couldn't be Arl's work. Someone wanted to come through
from the four dimensional world, and that someone had been receiving
the call from George. He had been sipping his bourbon, minding his own
business, yet he had given the call. He had been unaware of it but he
had been giving it, and that could be embarrassing. As it was now.

"Three-fifty," the bartender said. "Three-fifty or I'm gonna force
myself to call a cop."

George handed over the money and left hurriedly.

       *       *       *       *       *

He sat near the front of the trolley car, hoping that no more frogs
would fall. He could have walked home, but that would have taken much
longer, and there might be more frogs. This way, he was taking a chance
that they wouldn't fall in the trolley car, and, if they did, he'd
ignore them.

Three more stops and George would be home. He closed his eyes and
sighed contentedly. He would be safe then. He didn't want any more
frogs falling in public. Not while he was around.

Something soft but firm pressed his lap, and George opened his eyes. He
yowled. He couldn't help it. It was only a little yowl, but several
people looked at him. And then they began to yowl, especially one buxom
middle-aged lady. "It's indecent," she cried. "Utterly, thoroughly and
obnoxiously indecent. Somebody call a policeman at the next corner."

The driver looked in the mirror, astonished, and nodded. George blinked
his eyes, but when he opened them she was still there. She sat in his
lap and she was very beautiful. She didn't have a stitch of clothing on.

"Please," George pleaded. "Go away! Please go away. Go away and put
some clothing on and then come back if you want, but not like this!"

"You sent for me. You were in such a hurry you didn't even give me a
chance to dress. Now you want to send me back. What's the matter, don't
you like me?"

George felt the flush spread over his face; "Please," he said again.
"Go away. Everyone's staring at us."

"Okay," she pouted. "Okay. I'll go away. Just put that call out again
and I'll be able to do it." Her hair was long and billowing, the color
of copper, and it tickled George's face. "But I'll be back. Don't you
worry. I'll be back. And--if you see Arl--tell him I'm looking for him.
Just wait till I get my hands on him, you just wait--"

George blinked. The lovely creature was gone.

He had not been aware of the fact that the trolley had stopped. Now a
policeman stood in the aisle next to him.

"How'd you do it, pal? Come on, how'd you do it? I saw the girl and
she was naked as Lady Godiva. Just try to explain your way out of this
one...."

"It was utterly indecent," the buxom woman said. "I was going to visit
my little grandchildren, but how can I after that? How can I?"

"That," George told her acidly, "is your problem."

"A wise guy, too, eh?" The officer was belligerent.

"It's not too difficult to explain, officer. Something like hypnotism.
Something very much like it. It's called psychokinesis, I think."

"Psychokinesis, psychoshminesis. You just come on down with me and
explain it to the sergeant."

George went with him and he explained it to the sergeant, but it did
no good. The sergeant listened and then his face got very red. He had
a thick neck and his uniform collar was too tight for it, and his neck
got all red, too. He told George he could cool off his mental powers in
jail overnight and pay a twenty-five dollar fine.

... They gave George breakfast early in the morning. It wasn't very
good, but he was hungry and he ate all of it. Then he hurried out of
his cell and left the stationhouse. The whole cell was filled with
little red frogs, and he could hear the patrolmen bellowing as he
left, but he hurried down the stairs and flagged a taxi.

       *       *       *       *       *

He tried to relax in the apartment, but it was no good. He thought of
the girl who had materialized in his lap, and he knew she was Narka. He
wished she would come back because he wanted to see what would happen
when she met Arl. And there were other reasons, too. He wondered if
she would be wearing clothing. And the next thought, of course, was a
logical one: what kind of clothing would a fourth dimensional queen
wear?

At ten the doorbell rang.

He opened the door, and Myra came in. Behind her was Arl, and George
had never seen anyone so frightened as Arl looked.

"What the hell is wrong with you?" George demanded.

"Nothing--yet. I just read in the newspaper about you and the naked
girl in your lap--mass hypnotism, the report said. But we both know it
wasn't. It was Narka. Where is she?"

George said not to worry because she had gone back to the world
of the red frogs, and then Myra grabbed his shoulder and spun him
around sharply. She often did that when she was angry and wanted his
attention, and George had never done anything about it. He didn't do
anything this time, either. He just looked at her, and she removed her
hand from his shoulder. Her face was very white when she spoke.

"What was she doing in your lap, George?"

"What do you think she was doing?"

"That's what I'm asking you. Please, George. I'm sorry about yesterday.
I don't know what got into me. I never should have tried to hit you. A
wife has no business trying to hit her husband."

"Nuts," George said. "You just thought you could get away with it,
that's all. Now that you know you can't, you're trying to say you're
sorry. Nuts."

Then he looked at Arl fondly. Arl was to thank for all this. If it
hadn't been for Arl, he would still be henpecked. Myra didn't look like
the type that would henpeck her husband, but George smiled ruefully at
this thought. She was the type, and she did it every chance she got.
Only she wouldn't do it anymore. Arl had been _that_ catalyst. "Arl,"
George said, "I could love you like a brother."

"What about my wife?" Arl still wanted to know. "Where's my wife?"

"I told you, she went back. For some clothing, I think."

"Then she was sitting in your lap with no clothing on!" Myra said
indignantly.

"Yes, she was."

"What was she doing in your lap with no clothing on?"

"You asked me that once."

"Please, George. What!"

"She was sitting," George said. He winked at Arl, but Arl only
shuddered. Now _there_ is one henpecked king, George thought.

Then he stood up expectantly. A frog had plunked down on his head.

       *       *       *       *       *

The look of expectancy on George's face faded. He waited, but there was
nothing of Narka. No more frogs fell.

"That was tentative," Arl said.

"What do you mean, tentative?"

"I mean a tentative breakthrough into this dimension. Someone changed
his mind. But I shouldn't say someone and I shouldn't say his. It was
Narka." He was trembling.

"Get a hold on yourself, Arl. This is not the end of the world."

"You don't know Narka."

"You've just got to know how to handle women, that's all. Let them
think they have the upper hand, and you're through. Just show them
who's boss, that's all."

Myra seemed on the verge of snorting. But instead she smiled brightly
at Arl. "George is certainly right."

"Of course I'm right. Buck up, Arl."

"Well, it's easy to say. But I can't."

George snorted himself and went for the bourbon bottle. He had never
taken a drink before mid-afternoon in his life, but now he figured a
lot of changes had to be made. Necessary changes.

"I have a terrific idea," Arl said.

George didn't think it would be terrific, but he said: "What's that?"

"Well, you have to put the call through, you know. So, why don't you
just--don't?"

"Eh? Say that again."

"Don't put the call through. Don't put it through and Narka won't be
able to come."

Myra nodded her head vigorously. "That sounds like a fine idea," she
said.

George said, "It stinks. It so happens I want to see Narka again."

"After you see her, you'll be sorry. I'm not saying you can't handle
women, George. Don't misunderstand me. Myra is a spitfire a lot like
the Queen, but you certainly can handle Myra. I don't mean that."

George was pleased. "Of course. What do you mean?"

"Well, Narka is--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He stopped talking. Something fell to the floor at George's feet,
and he stopped to pick it up. He held it in his palm--a necklace of
flawless pearls, worth a small fortune. He held it in his hand, not
knowing what to do with it.

"That's what I mean," Arl said.

"Oh, it's beautiful," Myra cooed. "Is it for me, George? Where did you
get it?" Then she pouted. "It's not for--that Narka, is it? It's for
me, isn't it, George?"

"That's what I mean," Arl said again. "Narka cannot resist the impulse
to steal everything she likes in this dimension. She simply takes
what she likes, and I know several cases in which one of your three
dimensional men went to jail for a series of robberies committed by the
Queen."

"That's ridiculous," George said. "How can she steal so many things?"

Arl shook his head. "You're forgetting the relationship between the
three and four dimensional worlds again. Remember, it's like you and
that square on the table. How would you get a necklace out of that
square without crossing any of its lines?"

"Why--why, I'd simply lift the necklace up and then put it down on the
other side of one of the lines."

"Exactly. That's what Narka's doing. She sees what she likes, lifts
it up out of your three-dimensional existence, momentarily carries it
through the fourth dimension, and puts it down here. When she has all
she wants, she'll come for her booty, then I'm afraid she'll take me
home with her. Only she'll be very mad. She won't speak to me for a
week--she'll do other things, bad things. I wish you had never called
me, George."

Something went _plop_, and George saw a small velvet cushion on the
floor. Like a pin cushion. And pinned to it were a number of jeweled
brooches. George did not know too much about jewelry, but he didn't
have to be an expert to know that these were valuable pieces. Even if
he didn't know it himself, he could tell by the way Myra sighed. Myra
would not sigh at imitations.

       *       *       *       *       *

George laughed. "Now I know how Ali Baba must have felt after he said
'Open, Sesamee.'"

Myra nodded, but she hardly heard him. She walked from one treasure to
the next, as each new one plunked down on the floor or the chairs or
the tables. She was running, soon, with excited little gasps, feeling
the jewels with her hands, caressing them, holding them to her throat
and letting them caress her, raising them to the window so she could
see the sun shine on them.

Arl said wearily, "I have seen this many times before. It's always
the same the first time. Narka collects the treasure and someone here
in this three-dimensional world sees the treasure come in. The result
is always the same. It's quite a sight the first time. Narka has
sufficient jewelry here to buy this city."

"Well, it doesn't affect me that way," said George. But he only said
it--he didn't feel it at all. This interdimensional travel was the
answer to all his dreams. You saw something you wanted, you lifted it
out into the fourth dimension, you came back with it to the world of
three dimensions--and that's all there was to it.

"Don't tell me you're not thinking the same thing they all have thought
in the past," Arl said. "I know you are. Everyone does. But I warn you,
George: that way lies madness."

He could be a king, George thought. Not a titular king like Arl, but
the real thing--a king in the true sense of the word, the old sense of
the word. He'd want something--anything--and it would be his. Just like
that.

"No more treasure," Myra said. "It isn't raining anymore."

George looked. The room was abrim with precious stones, and apparently
Narka had enough for this trip. She had stolen a king's ransom--more
than that. And there was that word again: with this power, George could
be a king.

"No," he said.

"What's that?"

"Um, nothing, Arl. Nothing. Just thinking out loud." He did not want to
be a king, not that way. Human values were too high, and he had moved
on the straight and narrow path too long. Not that there was anything
wrong with the straight and narrow path. Suddenly he liked it--it was
very important to him, and although he remembered Narka as he had seen
her, naked and beautiful, he thought of her now only as a cheap thief.
The wild urge had gone--this was not the way to kinghood.

       *       *       *       *       *

Abruptly, Narka was there. One moment there were only the three of them
and the treasure. The next, she stood next to George, and when she
materialized, she was leaning on George's arm.

"I'm back," she said.

She wore a tunic, only it was more translucent than a tunic had a
right to be. But George didn't mind. He didn't mind in the least. It
was unfortunate, though, that he was so interested in the effects
Narka's arrival would have on Arl. He looked at the woman only for a
moment, and then he turned his eyes to her husband.

Arl was trembling. He looked ordinary compared with Narka. He wore what
could have passed for a white linen suit, and it fit well. With that
enigmatic smile, he could have been a good looking man, but right now
he was trembling, and his mouth hung open.

"Narka--" he said.

"Don't you 'Narka' me. You know I didn't want you to come, but you came
anyway. Just wait till I can get you home alone. Wait till I get you--"

"Wait is right," said George. He gestured to the jewelry about the
room. "Right now there's another matter, a more important matter. What
about your, ah, trophies?"

"What about them?" She gave George's arm a little squeeze, and George
liked the feeling. But he saw Myra wince. "What about them? Why,
nothing. I'll just take them home with me, that's all. I have a whole
section of the palace filled with them."

"No you won't," George said.

"Don't be silly. Who's going to stop me?"

"I am."

She leaned more heavily on George's arm, and she looked up at him with
her big round eyes. "No you're not."

"No? How are you going to get back unless I help you?"

"You'll help me. I'll leave some of these jewels here with you. Name
any three items and they're yours."

Myra suggested, "That brooch, and that--"

"Shut up," said George.

Narka frowned. "Are you going to let him talk to you like that?"

Myra looked at George. "Y-yes," she said. "But please stop holding on
to his arm like that. If George says you take all those things back
where they belong, then you'd better do it. I--I think George knows
best."

"He does," Arl assured his wife.

"You shut up, Arl. I'll attend to you later." Narka made no move
to release George's arm. She leaned closer to him and stood on her
tiptoes. Then she kissed him. George liked it--he liked it a lot. This
Narka was quite a girl, even if she was a crook.

"Now, George," she said, "send us back."

"No." George pulled his arm away, and Narka was leaning over so far
that she almost fell.

"Hah," Myra said.

Narka smiled. "Arl," she said, "pick up the jewelry, and we'll get
started."

"How can we get started if George won't send us back?"

"Just be quiet and pick up the jewelry."

       *       *       *       *       *

Obediently, Arl went about the room, gathering the treasures in his
arms. It took a few minutes, and George stood by patiently, smiling.
Finally, arms full, Arl nodded to his wife. "That's all, dear."

Narka looked at George. "Now, send us back."

George shrugged. "I said no, and I wasn't kidding. You take all that
jewelry back where it belongs, and I'll send you back. Not before."

For a long moment, Narka looked at him. "You know," she said, "I think
I will get you in trouble. Yes, I think I will. You definitely deserve
it."

The apartment was on the fourth floor, near the corner. Narka strode to
the window and opened it. Behind her, George looked out. Down on the
corner directing traffic was a cop.

"He's a law officer, isn't he?" Narka demanded.

George nodded, and before he could stop her, Narka took two brooches
and a necklace from the pile in Arl's arms, called to the policeman,
and, when she had caught his attention, threw the jewelry down to him.

"Oh, no...." Myra moaned.

George shut the window. In a few minutes the policeman would be in the
room. He'd see a room full of jewelry, and he'd receive reports of all
the thefts in the past few minutes, the incredible number of thefts in
so short a space of time, and though he would not know how it was done,
he would blame George. He would definitely blame George.

A few minutes....

"You shouldn't have done that," George said.

Narka stuck her tongue out at him. It was very unladylike, even less
queen-like. "No?"

"No." George reached out and pulled Narka to him. He saw the look of
triumph on her face.

"George," she said coyly.

Holding her arm and retreating to a big chair, George sat down. Because
he was still holding her, Narka sat on his lap, and from there it
wasn't hard for him to turn her over. He did and then she got the idea,
but it was too late. She struggled and she writhed but she couldn't do
a thing about it.

"What you need," George told her, "is a good three-dimensional man to
take care of you."

"Let me up or I'll--I'll beat you."

"You'll _what_?"

"I'll beat you. Ask Arl, he's a man, but I beat him. When I get him
home, I will beat him."

       *       *       *       *       *

George lifted his hand, but Arl caught it in mid-air. "Wait, George.
I think I am learning." Arl was still trembling, but he attempted a
smile. "I think I am learning."

George smiled and got up. Arl sat on the chair next to his wife. Men
could be henpecked just so long, George thought--even in the fourth
dimension, it couldn't go on forever.

But Arl's smile was uncertain, he was trying to bolster his courage
with it, and Narka stared grimly, certainly. Suddenly, she and Arl
were locked together, struggling. George breathed hard. The cop would
be here in another minute or two, but he had to let Arl fight his own
battle. A king could not be a king in name only, and he had tried to
show Arl the way.

Narka wrestled Arl to the floor and held him there, next to the
remainder of the jewelry. Arl began to moan, and then Narka laughed
triumphantly up at George. "There's one thing you didn't know, third
dimensional man. One thing you couldn't know. In the fourth dimension,
the female is superior physically."

Arl moaned.

George didn't know a thing about fourth dimensional culture. He had
never thought of this possibility, but now Narka held her husband
firmly, and she began to do something to his arm.

"Give up?" she said.

Arl looked up at George. "I tried."

"Nuts," said George. "You may think the female is stronger in the
fourth dimension, but you're in the third dimension now. If Arl--"

Arl needed that encouragement. He smiled now, and this time his
smile was the grim certain one. "Why not?" he said. "Something
there--different dimension, different laws apply, and if I can do it
once, do it now--"

He writhed fiercely in Narka's grip, and George watched. Someone was
knocking at the door. "Open up. Hey, open up in there! I saw you at the
window, so I know you're there. What the hell did you throw them pins
out for? Open up!"

The knocking became more urgent.

It was important, it was vital. But George hardly heard it. Here at his
feet he saw a culture changing. Arl forced his wife slowly up and back,
and then Arl was in control. He sat on the floor and Narka was draped
across his lap and he was spanking her.

"Remarkable," Myra said.

Narka began to cry. With each downward stroke of Arl's hand, she cried.
And by the look on the king's face, George could tell that Arl was
having the time of his life.

He didn't want to stop. He was enjoying himself too much, after all
these years, and he was in no mood to stop. But George pulled him away.
"She's had enough."

Arl was cocky. "Will you be a good girl now, Narka?"

The queen sighed and nodded. She had a look of disbelief on her face,
but she walked off into the corner of the room. She looked as if she
wanted to sit down, but then she thought better of it, and she stood
there, sulking.

"Quick," George said. He helped Arl gather up the jewels, and even
Myra helped, and then Narka was telling Arl, listlessly, where she had
gotten them. Arl winked at George, his arms loaded with the treasures,
and then he disappeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

George opened the door. The cop stalked in, belligerently. "Now, what's
going on? What's going on in here, that's what I wanna know!"

George frowned. "What do you mean, officer?"

"I mean, these jewels." He held out his hand, showing the three
expensive items he had caught. "Better explain this good, bud."

There was only one thing to do, George thought. "Explain it? Explain
what? What jewels are you talking about, officer?"

"These damn jewels in my hand, that's what!" The cop held his hand out,
showing the two brooches and the necklace.

"I don't see any jewels," said George. "Myra, do you see any jewels?"

"Huh? Why, of course--not. I don't see anything."

"Narka?"

The queen looked sullen, but she shook her head. "No."

George looked at the policeman. "Tch, tch," he said, shaking his head.

"What do you mean, no jewels? You hinting I'm nuts?"

"Maybe just a few drinks too many," George suggested, looking at the
jewelry.

"Why, listen--" But the policeman scratched his head.

He didn't see Arl come up behind him. Arl reached out and grabbed the
two brooches, the necklace--and then disappeared.

The policeman looked at his hand. For a long time he stared at it. His
jaw went slack.

"Jeez--" he said.

"We'll forget it," George told him. "We'll forget all about it. Now
just go home and behave yourself--and no drinking on duty, eh officer?"

"Yeah. Yeah, sure." The cop went out the door, still staring at his
hand.

In a moment, Arl was back. Narka looked at him, and George had seen
that look in Myra's eyes yesterday at their bungalow. Arl took his
wife's arm in a firm grip. "We're going home," he said.

She looked dubious, but then she rubbed her posterior, and she smiled
ruefully. "Yes, m'lord." Arl shook hands with George, waved to
Myra--and then they disappeared.

George smiled. "Let that be a lesson to you, dear."

Myra kissed him, shyly. They had been married for six years, but it was
a shy kiss.

"I don't need any lesson, George."

"No more Fort? No more psychokinesis?"

"No more, if you say so, George."

"I say so."

"Yes, sir," said Myra. "Yes, sir."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IT'S RAINING FROGS! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
