ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Maid--To Order, by Hal Annas

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Maid--To Order

Author: Hal Annas

Release Date: April 18, 2021 [eBook #65101]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MAID--TO ORDER ***




                            MAID--TO ORDER!

                             By HAL ANNAS

                Herb Cornith didn't really mind getting
            married as long as the girl answered his strict
            specifications which were simply--a superwoman!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             February 1951
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Herb Cornith shook his dark head in disappointment. "Nope," he said,
"she won't do. Lacks an ounce of being the right weight."

The willowy blonde behind the desk blinked blue eyes and frowned.
"But Mr. Cornith," she insisted, "you fit Miss Lucy Hollowell's
specifications perfectly. She even specified that the man must be very
exacting, meticulous and choosy. Certainly you are being all of that
when you quibble over an ounce in her weight."

Cornith picked up the specification sheet in his muscular right hand.
He studied it out of thoughtful brown eyes. "This doesn't look right,"
he said. "I'll admit that I have strong features, but I'm not handsome."

"To a woman, you are handsome, Mr. Cornith. In fact, magnetically so."

"I'm only six feet tall, not seventy-three inches."

"That is a typographical error, Mr. Cornith. It should read seventy-two
inches. The corrected copy should be along soon. Something went wrong
with the machine."

"And my eyes are not particularly expressive. I generally conceal my
thoughts."

"That, Mr. Cornith, is merely your own opinion. You don't know what
expression you might put into your eyes when you look into the eyes of
your soul-mate."

"The eyes of my what?"

"Excuse me, Mr. Cornith. I know you're not the poetic type. You're the
rugged type, but brainy, realistic. Still, you fit the specifications."

"You said there was another sheet to the specifications?"

"Yes. It won't be finished until tomorrow. But let me assure you that
it fits you. In fact, it describes your every virtue and fault."

Cornith glanced round the large room. His brown eyes came to rest on
a model of an early Martian rocket ship. He studied it for a space,
mentally seeing its interior and its outmoded atomic drive. It reminded
him that he should get back to the laboratory and check on those
ray-collector tests. This business of dickering over specifications for
a wife was a nuisance. His requirements had been on file since he had
taken the Levet test at the age of eighteen. Because of his exacting
nature they had been hard to fill. Now at twenty-seven he was still
unmarried. Not that he cared. But by reason of the fact that he was of
the higher mental level, and physically fitted to survive in a complex
and expanding civilization, he was urged by the Foundation to marry and
beget children.

       *       *       *       *       *

This was the accepted procedure. Marriage was seldom discouraged, but
it was urged only on those who came up to certain specifications. The
purpose was to improve mankind in order that man might hold his own in
a solar system that was even now reaching out toward the stars. The
system had long been in effect on Mars, but owing to the colder climate
and the thinner atmosphere, Mars had less than a tenth the population
of earth. Selective breeding alone had enabled these to survive.

"Sorry," Cornith said. "This Lucy Hollowell fits everything except she
is too skinny. I don't want a bag of bones for a wife."

The blonde smiled wryly. "She is only a half-ounce under the
specifications, to be exact. Perhaps you have not carefully read your
requirements. Let me remind you, Mr. Cornith, the Foundation probed
your every thought, conscious and subconscious, your every physical
reaction, and they specified merely that the girl must be unusually
intelligent, naming the subjects which will fit into your pattern; that
she must be beautiful according to your standards; that she must be
five-feet four-inches tall and weigh a hundred and twenty-three pounds.

"Now, Mr. Cornith, there is one little thing which the Foundation has
decided that you implanted in your thoughts by suggestion before taking
the test. They decided that you were being facetious. I am alluding
to the specified requirements that your wife must be able to wiggle
her ears, throw her voice and perform sleight-of-hand tricks, among
other curious things. The Foundation says that these things may not be
essentially required. But they do admit the requirement that she must
be eager to please you at all times. And since it is Lucy Hollowell's
nature to be eager to please the man she marries, she is even now
practicing ventriloquism and learning how to wiggle her ears. She has
a brilliant mind and will have no difficulty learning a number of
sleight-of-hand tricks."

"But she's too skinny!"

"Half an ounce, Mr. Cornith. She weighs a hundred and twenty-two
pounds, fifteen ounces. She could very easily gain that ounce by making
an effort, but you specified that there should be no conscious effort
to meet physical measurements and weight requirements. She was to be
weighed, dripping wet, as she came from under the shower, just before
breakfast. We assume that the wetness weighed half an ounce."

"I don't like skinny females."

"We have another one, less brilliant, but who meets all physical
requirements other than weighing a hundred and twenty-three pounds and
four ounces."

"Too fat. Can't stand fat women."

"Would you permit Lucy Hollowell to gain half an ounce consciously? She
can do it in a few hours. Has a brilliant mind. Can regulate her own
glandular flow."

"No. I don't want to marry a woman who is always thinking about her
weight, and if she starts now--"

"You're very exacting, Mr. Cornith!"

"Naturally. The requirements of Lucy Hollowell demand an exacting man.
At least that's what the Foundation reports."

"Then you are giving her serious thought?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"None whatever! She's too skinny. If she just had an ounce more meat on
her bones, I'd marry her and not even ask her name. But I don't want to
live the balance of my days with a female who looks like an animated
skeleton, who has to stand twice in the same spot to cast a shadow, who
has to drink tomato juice to keep you from looking through her."

"How about the woman of the same height who weighs a hundred and
twenty-three pounds, four ounces."

"A beef-trust like that! Count me out. She'd cast her shadow twice.
It would take a week to hug her, a little at a time. She'd shake
the house down every time she walked across the floor. Impossible to
keep her in clothes. I'd need a nylon and linen factory to supply the
material for one outfit. No! I'd rather have a skeleton than a whale."

"Then you'll consider Lucy Hollowell?"

"I didn't say that. I wouldn't mind taking a look at her from a
distance, because if she does fit the other specifications she must be
something out of a dream. Too bad she has to be built like a rail."

"Not like a rail, Mr. Cornith."

"A skeleton then."

"Not like a skeleton, either. She is Miss Venus of 2190."

"What? You mean, this gawky Lucy Hollowell is the same as that gorgeous
bundle of curves and pulchritude?"

"Exactly. And now you're interested, huh?"

"No. She doesn't meet the specifications."

"But you'll let her come over to the laboratory and watch you work,
won't you? After all, you meet her requirements."

"No! I don't want any walking bean-poles around the laboratory."

"But maybe she wouldn't appear just that."

"She's underweight."

"According to your requirements--only. Thousands of men think she is
perfect. And she's going to be mighty disappointed if her dream man--"

"Her what?"

"Sorry. I forgot you're not the poetic type. She doesn't think of you
as her dream man, but she does think of you as being everything she
wants in a man. You'll let her come to the laboratory, won't you?"

"No."

"But she does at least want to see you. Do you know you are the only
man out of thousands who exactly meets her requirements? Even to those
crinkles in your forehead when you frown. And even to being stubborn
about things."

"I've got to get back and check those ray-collectors--"

"And you'll let her go along with you?"

"No."

"But she's waiting in the next office, and your requirements call for a
woman who has a mind of her own. I think she's--"

"Not a mind of her own that makes her determined to have her own way in
everything."

"Of course not. But I think she's--"

"I specified a woman who would not try to wear the pants."

"She won't. That is, not yours, anyway. Though you're too big for them.
But I think she's going with you to the laboratory."

       *       *       *       *       *

"That's what you think," Cornith said with finality and stood up.
"No long, lean, gawky drink-of-water is going to tag along after Herb
Cornith. Especially a female bag of bones. Uh! Excuse me. Who is the
lady who just entered without knocking?"

"Oh! Just a second. Miss Hollowell, Mr. Cornith was just getting ready
to come by for you. Miss Hollowell, Mr. Cornith."

Cornith drew a deep breath and ran a finger beneath his collar. He
stared, drinking in the beauty of the symmetrical figure beneath
the rose-colored dress, the radiance of the smooth features. He had
seen her before, but only in a vague dream in which she was far more
lovely than the telecast views of Miss Venus, but in the dream she
had not done to him what she was doing now. She acted upon him much
as a single-pole magnet does to a magnet of opposite polarity. More,
she seemed stunned herself. Her lips parted slightly, revealing white
teeth, and her deep azure eyes seemed to be saying things that only
eyes can say.

"A pleasure," Cornith said, enclosing her small warm hand in his. "I
was just telling Miss--" He gestured toward the girl behind the desk.
"I was just telling her that I--er, I, uh."

"You're going to the laboratory," Lucy Hollowell said, more as a direct
reading of his thoughts than as a question.

Cornith smiled, nodded. "Care to come along?"

Lucy Hollowell withdrew her hand and a deck of cards materialized from
nowhere and spread out fanwise between her small thumb and forefinger.
Cornith gaped. In the next instant his attention was attracted to her
ears which peeked from beneath silken platinum hair. The ears were
wiggling enchantingly.

Flushed and hot, Cornith reached to his breast pocket for a
handkerchief. He was astonished to find a large Spanish rose protruding
from the pocket. He held it in his hand and stared at it in stunned
silence. Lucy Hollowell extended a small white hand and took the rose
from him. She held it against her cheek until he saw that her lips and
the rose were the same color. Then she fastened it in her platinum hair
where its warm red petals contrasted brilliantly.

"Er, uh. I was saying--" Cornith began lamely.

"That she's a bag of bones," a voice behind him finished.

Cornith whirled, and the same voice in a distant part of the room said,
"Over here!" Cornith jumped. He puzzled for a moment and then it dawned
over him that those small voices had the same deep huskiness that Lucy
Hollowell's voice had. He turned back to her and smiled weakly.

"You were inviting me to go to the laboratory with you?" Lucy said.

Cornith nodded. "Thought it might interest--" He broke off abruptly,
his mouth hanging open. He could not believe his ears. He was hearing
his own voice, or a fair imitation of it, repeating his earlier words,
"Gawky ... beanpole ... tagging...."

"Stop that!" he said abruptly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Silence reigned and Lucy Hollowell remained in rigid immobility. And
while Cornith stared, her peachblown cheeks became pink, then red. The
veins in her lovely neck swelled and throbbed. She turned slowly on
tottering legs and gently collapsed into Cornith's arms.

"What th--?" He twisted his neck and looked at the blonde in frantic
appeal. "What's the matter with her? Can't you do something?"

"Your requirements demand," the blonde replied unemotionally, "a woman
who is very obedient. When you told her to 'stop that!' she stopped
everything, including breathing."

"Oh!" Cornith sighed in relief. "So that's it!"

"Better tell her to begin breathing again," the blonde said casually.

"But the requirements shouldn't be taken that literally," Cornith
argued.

"She won't take everything literally. An understanding between you
will straighten that out. But meanwhile, you'd better tell her to
breathe again."

Cornith looked down at the lovely face which had now regained its
normal peachblown color. He was astonished to see a tiny bit of deep
azure beneath an eyelid that wasn't quite closed. Instantly the lid
closed tightly, quivered a trifle and remained shut. Cornith's mind
worked swiftly, reconstructing events from the beginning, and he
recalled the swelling veins, the careful turning to fall into his arms,
the flushed cheeks which were not the color that normally precedes
fainting. He noticed now the shallow, controlled breathing, and he felt
a slight tremor in the soft warm body he held in his arms.

Drawing her close, Cornith said, "This ought to make her snap out of
it," and pressed his lips firmly against hers.

"No, no, Mr. Cornith!" the blonde exclaimed. "The requirements say that
she is supposed to swoon when you do that."

It was true. Lucy Hollowell seemed to revive and then swoon in ecstasy.
She slumped limply in Cornith's arms while a faint tremor ran through
her warm body. To make certain the results were mathematically precise,
Cornith tried again, kissing her a little more firmly this time. The
response was the same. In the interest of science, he tested the matter
a third time, and then turned raptly to the blonde.

"Look! She swoons everytime I kiss her."

"Naturally, Mr. Cornith," the blonde commented a trifle bitterly. "Your
requirements demand that, even though it is thought by some members
of the Foundation that you were in a facetious mood when you took the
Levet examination. They suspect that you implanted a large number of
suggestions prior to the event, to bias your responses in a manner not
in keeping with the seriousness of the occasion. That is not a problem
for this department. We have provided you with a woman who fulfills
every requirement stated--"

"She's underweight," Cornith insisted.

"Does she look too thin?"

"No! She's perfect. But she lacks an ounce--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Smack! A small white hand struck Cornith's cheek resoundingly and
brought the blood stinging to the surface. He almost dropped the girl.
She got her long, slender legs under her and supported her own weight.
Smack! Another small hand caught Cornith stingingly on the other cheek.
He drew a deep breath, felt his muscles contracting.

"Now, now, Mr. Cornith!" the blonde warned. "The specifications demand
that your wife shall have plenty of fire."

"That doesn't give her a right to knock my head off," Cornith
blustered. "Besides, she's not my wife!"

"Are you hurt, darling?" Lucy Hollowell said sympathetically. "I'm
sorry! Here! Let me kiss your cheeks and make them well."

"What th--?"

"Now, now, Mr. Cornith! She's supposed to be sympathetic and
understanding and very tender when you need her."

"I don't need that sort of sympathy and understanding."

"Look!" Lucy Hollowell cupped his chin in one soft hand and forced him
to look at her. "My ears!" They were wiggling again in rhythm with the
soft strains of a waltz coming from some hidden source.

"Stop that! No, no, no! Don't stop breathing. Just stop wiggling your
ears. Don't faint. Stand still. And stop plucking coins out of the air.
And if that's you making that music, stop that, too."

Silence reigned. Lucy Hollowell remained perfectly still. The
expression on her lovely features was one of interest and concern. Her
ripe lips quivered slightly. "You don't like me?" she said.

"I do, too."

Instantly the girl was all over Cornith, hugging him and kissing him at
the same time and murmuring endearments.

"Hey!"

"Now, now, Mr. Cornith. She's supposed to be very responsive to words
of love."

"I didn't say anything about love."

"You said you liked her."

"I merely said, 'I do, too'."

"But she's supposed to understand even when you don't put everything in
words."

"When is she supposed to stop this--this necking?"

"She will let you alone when you want to be let alone."

Lucy Hollowell stepped back, patted her platinum hair and glanced at
her image in a small mirror. Then she smiled sweetly at Cornith and
returned to his side. "Shall we go?" she said.

This sudden change in mood and recovery of self-possession, after her
demonstration of a moment before, was more than Cornith could readily
grasp. The blonde supplied the answer.

"Her moods change with the situation and needs of the moment."

       *       *       *       *       *

Cornith scratched his dark head. "I don't know," he commented
reflectively. "I didn't think any woman in the world would fit the
requirements I put in. At eighteen I thought the whole idea was stupid.
I didn't want to get married."

"Of course," Lucy said understandingly. "You still think those
examinations and tests and specifications are stupid. I understand.
And you put in a lot of things you didn't want. But I had to meet the
requirements, and my reactions and responses had to be some actual part
of me, not ad lib. I can change them in time."

"She's very understanding, Mr. Cornith, and eager to please."

"But it's all nonsense," Cornith insisted.

"Of course it is," Lucy said sympathetically. "It isn't right for you
to have to marry a girl who meets all of the requirements you didn't
want. I know just how you feel, and after we're married we'll work
together to amend the Foundation regulations."

"I didn't say I'd marry you."

"Of course you didn't. And it isn't fair for you to have to do it. I
know just how you feel. And I'll comfort you all I can. Here you have
a woman on your hands whose reactions are everything you thought was
silly. Because you're a scientist and don't like nonsense. At least,
not too much of it. And you put all those things in, thinking that
everybody would see how silly they were. You didn't think anybody would
be stupid enough actually to be like that. I feel so sorry for you,
having to marry a woman with all those silly things ingrained in her
reactions."

"We're not married yet."

"That's the worst part. It's that anxiety before an event of doubtful
outcome. I'm so sorry, darling! Put your head here on my breast and
let me comfort you."

"Dash it!"

"Now, now, Mr. Cornith. The specifications ... a woman of deep
feeling ... ready to comfort."

"Dash it! Dash it! Dash it!"

"Now, now, Mr. Cornith! If you give way to your feelings, no telling
what might happen. That's one of the things you didn't anticipate.
There's nothing in the specifications--"

"Here!" Lucy opened her handbag and drew out a flask. "You need a
drink. Brace up. There are worse things than being married."

"I don't drink." Cornith seized the flask and tossed off a swallow.
"Ah! Martian Vinth! Never touch the stuff." He took another swallow.
"Now I don't have to marry you. I deliberately specified that my wife
should not be a Vinth sot."

"Herb darling, you're so clever! I detest the stuff. But I happened to
know that scientists drink it to strengthen their minds and to keep
their health up. I brought it along to prove how thoughtful I am. I
also have in my handbag a length of chewing rope."

Cornith shook his head. "I don't chew, but you go right ahead."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lucy shook her head. "Too bad. I chew, drink, smoke, brawl, swear, lie,
steal, eat with my knife, and throw things. All in the specifications.
I do everything except drink Vinth. Too bad you don't. We could have
so much fun together, chewing and drinking and lying and stealing and
fighting and throwing things."

"But I didn't mean all those things."

"Of course you didn't, darling! And I'm so sorry you put them in. But
what's done is done, and there's no use worrying about it. Take another
drink and brace up."

Cornith took another drink and returned the flask. He felt better now.
The Martian Vinth had both a soothing and exhilarating effect. The
things that had seemed so stupid a moment before now seemed reasonable.

"All right," he said. "If you do all of those things, you qualify.
Let's have a specimen lie to see how good you are."

"I hate you!"

"Now wait! Don't fly off the handle."

"But darling! I was merely giving you a sample lie."

"You mean, you love me?"

"No."

"Then why do you want to marry me?"

"I don't."

"Oh! I see. You're lying."

"Of course."

"Tell the truth. Do you love me?"

"Now, now, Mr. Cornith! There's nothing in the specifications about
telling the truth about anything at any time whatever."

"Oh, my Gawd!" The full realization of the awful truth shook Cornith,
froze the mellow glow the Martian Vinth had instilled. "I didn't
include any good qualities at all in the specifications!"

"And I'm so sorry," Lucy said tenderly. "Because I could very easily
have trained myself to be good, to be all of the things you wanted.
But I had to follow the specifications. It was the only way I could
qualify. Maybe I can change--in five or ten years."

Cornith shook his head sadly. "In five or ten years it won't matter one
way or another."

"Then you're going to marry me and get used to me?"

"No."

"But Herb, darling! I've worked so hard making myself all of the silly
things your specifications demanded. Nobody else will want a woman like
that. Besides, I've been in love with you ever since you worked out the
formula for canning cosmic rays."

"You remember that?"

"Of course. Saw you for the first time then, in teleview. You reminded
me of something I'd been dreaming."

"What?"

"Tell you after we're married."

"I'm not going to marry you."

"You'll have to. I can pass all the requirements. Here's your wallet I
stole out of your pocket ten minutes ago. And the law says--"

"But you're an ounce underweight."

"Are you going to let a little thing like that--?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Lucy halted abruptly and Cornith smiled serenely. "Sure," he said. "The
specifications require the female to weigh a hundred and twenty-three
pounds, dripping wet, and she may not change her weight consciously by
eating or drinking. Now, I'll give you a sporting chance. You weigh a
hundred and twenty-two pounds and fifteen ounces, or maybe a little
less. You can weigh yourself and see. If you gain an ounce, or enough
to make you weigh one twenty-three, within an hour, and without eating
or drinking, or thinking about your body, I'll marry you and not even
ask your name."

"There are certain absorptions--"

"Nope. That's out. You'd have to think about your body."

Lucy's smooth brow puckered. She stepped quickly to the desk and spun
the globe resting there.

"Nope. No luck there. We're almost at sea level. You can't get any
lower than that. And if you went to higher altitude you'd weigh less."

Suddenly Lucy smiled, snatched up a pencil and began figuring on a pad,
and Cornith mused reflectively: "She's a good sport. And a beauty.
By George! I hope she figures it out." Then he frowned. "But it's
impossible."

Lucy dropped the pencil and clapped her hands. "I have it," she
exclaimed. "Time me now."

"I'll have to weigh you first," Cornith said. "Dripping wet."

Lucy's cheeks became a shade pinker. "Won't you take my word for it?"

Cornith shook his head. "You're an accomplished liar."

"I'll weigh her," the blonde offered.

Cornith shrugged. "It's okay with me. But when you claim you weigh a
hundred and twenty-three pounds, with no ounces lacking, I'm going to
do the weighing."

Lucy's cheeks took on a rosy shade. Apparently preoccupied with her
own thoughts, she made no reply. She followed the blonde girl out of
the room and Cornith sat on the edge of the desk to wait. He wished
now that he had not posed the problem. He could think of a thousand
reasons why it would be interesting to be married to such an intensely
alive creature. And he wasn't deceived about what were termed her bad
qualities. They were the result of a training pattern. They were not
her basic personality and they were not deeply ingrained. In fact, she
could be, and was, everything he wanted in a woman. He had made up his
mind to ask her to marry him even if she failed to solve the problem,
when she and the blonde returned.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were faint beads of moisture on the lobes of Lucy's ears, and the
rose-colored dress hung awry. "Didn't have time to dry thoroughly, and
had to jump into my clothes. Hurry! We're going to be married. Right
now!"

"How much do you weigh?"

"One twenty-two, fourteen and three-quarter ounces. But I'll weigh one
twenty-three within twenty minutes."

Cornith shook his head. "Stubborn," he told himself. "Bluffing. Lying.
I ought to teach her a lesson."

"I'm going to put a clause in the ceremony," he said aloud, "that if
you don't weigh exactly a hundred and twenty-three pounds, we're not
legally married."

"You're so clever," she smiled. "I was going to do that myself."

"Game, anyway," Cornith mused, as he followed her hurriedly out to the
chute and up to the roof.

"We'll get married and then you can weigh me," she said. "And if I
don't weigh one twenty-three--" Her brow puckered. "Gee! I hope I've
got it figured right."

"If you don't weigh a hundred and twenty-three, it won't be legal,"
Cornith insisted. "I'm going to put in that clause."

A look of pain showed in her features for an instant, then it was gone
and she led the way to a sky-taxi.

"There's a hurry-up marrying place ten minutes away," she said. "Same
altitude. Near sea level. We can get married in a hurry there."

Cornith shrugged. "Tell the driver."

Thirty minutes later they were married, with the cancelling clause
included. Cornith thought now that he had carried the joke too far.
Lucy seemed on the verge of tears. Besides, they would not be legally
and finally married until after he had weighed her. And he knew now
that she meant to abide strictly by the words of the ceremony, that if
the scales showed less than a hundred and twenty-three pounds she would
not consider herself married. He thought of finagling the scales. But
she went along with him to buy them, and insisted that they be checked
and sealed to the hundredth of an ounce. Cornith knew now that she was
not only a liar, but the most sincere and conscientious person he had
ever known.

       *       *       *       *       *

He felt cheap and mean and low as he accompanied her into the bridal
suite he had engaged via pocket-communicator. He placed the scales on
the floor and felt as though he had deliberately cheated and tricked
an innocent child. He could see that Lucy was uncertain of herself.
He could feel the tremors of fear that shook her, the doubts, the
questions of right and wrong, the wondering what all this was going
to do to her happiness. He would have traded his hunting lodge on Mars
just for the privilege of going back and changing it all and telling
her that she was perfect at a hundred and twenty-two pounds, fifteen
ounces, and need never change an iota to please him.

She turned slowly to face him, and two crystal tears formed in the
corners of her azure eyes. "Just one kiss," she begged. "Because I
might fail, and that means the end."

Cornith held her close. He wished there was something he could do to
comfort her, to change it all, but he knew the depth of her sincerity,
and he knew that she would offer no excuse, would accept no failure
even from herself. Indeed, her whole happiness, it seemed, depended
upon her promise that she would fill the specifications even to that
final ounce.

She pushed him away and smiled through her tears. "I'm losing weight by
crying," she said. "Gee, golly! I hope I've figured it right."

"Dripping wet," he said. "Leave the suds on if you wish."

She shook her head. "That wouldn't be honest." She broke away, ran
to the bathroom. She stepped inside the bathroom and drew the door
shut. Cornith stood there alone, and suddenly he felt as though his
own weight had increased. Something was gone, locked away from him,
something that had been vitally alive and warm and colorful. He walked
over to the window and stood looking down at the street below. It was
filled with life, but its life seemed alien, remote. His ears picked
up the faint sound of the shower, and he knew that his thoughts would
always hereafter be filled with the memory of how close he had come to
happiness.

He heard the bathroom door open softly, but he didn't dare look. His
heart was too heavy. Then he heard the soft, tremulous voice. "I've
got soap in my eyes. Come look at the scales. Don't look at me. I'm
dripping wet."

Cornith turned slowly, caught his breath. The vision that met his eyes
was a loveliness transcending his wildest dreams. The coruscating beads
of water were like flashing jewels adorning a soft pink and white body,
vitally alive and yet trembling in fear. He stepped quickly to the
scales and looked.

       *       *       *       *       *

A warm glow started at his feet and rushed upward, making him giddy
as it swept over his neck and face and on into his brain. The scales
showed a hundred and twenty-three pounds and four one-hundredths of an
ounce. He glanced up. She had wiped the soap out of her eyes and those
azure orbs were flashing a surge of joy unparalleled.

Cornith sprang to take her in his arms, but she leaped away, raced to
the bathroom, slammed the door and locked it.

"Come on out," he said. "You saw the scales."

"I'm not coming out," she called back, "until you figure out how I did
it."

"Don't be silly."

"I'm a determined woman, Herb darling!"

And Cornith knew that it was true. There was nothing left but to get
to work and figure out how she had accomplished the seeming miracle.
He drew out a chair at the writing desk, found paper and felt for his
pen. He stated the problem, cancelling out eating and drinking, for he
had been with her all of the time and she had not taken anything. He
thought that perhaps she and the blonde had lied about her original
weight. But that didn't fit. She had been sincerely worried about
whether she would succeed. Ah! There it was.

He went to work and in three minutes he had two pages filled with
figures, ciphers and symbols. He smiled grimly to himself and worked
on. Ten minutes passed. He heard her call from the bathroom, but did
not answer. He was engrossed with the problem. He worked on and on,
eliminating variables, restating the problem, beginning anew with a
different theory, working on and on. An hour passed.

[Illustration: As the equations sped through his mind her image was
always among them.]

With the desk and floor littered, Cornith paused reflectively. He
heard a soft movement behind him, then Lucy's voice said, "I couldn't
wait any longer. I've come to help you."

"Don't bother me now," Cornith said. He jotted down another row of
numerals, then leaned back and sighed.

Two warm arms went around his neck. "Was it so difficult?" she asked.
"I figured it out in no time. It's just that gravity differs at the
poles and the equator. It is slightly more at the poles. About one
in fifty, I think. I didn't know for certain. But on that basis I
figured there would be a change in specific gravity of about an ounce
every hundred miles or so. I had to guess at it. That's why I was
so frightened. Anyway, we flew over two hundred miles north to this
hurry-up place. Do you understand it, darling?"

"You mean, about your weight and the difference in gravity between the
equator and the poles?"

"Yes, darling."

"I figured that out in the first three seconds after I sat down. I've
been computing your basic personality, trying to figure out how long
you would remain in the bathroom before coming out to help me. I missed
it somewhere. I figured you'd be in there another two hours. I'll have
to check my figures. Go away."

"Oh, no, you won't recheck them." She placed a hand over the paper. "On
this one I'm going to help. The error is right there. You didn't allow
enough for the volume and strength of my love to cancel out the volume
and strength of my determination and resistance. Square resistance and
raise love to the power of ten. And now if you don't give me a big
kiss, I'll revert to the specifications and steal one."

In the next instant she was crushed in his strong arms. And her ears
were wiggling ecstatically.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MAID--TO ORDER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
