ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Menace From Vega, by Robert Randall

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Menace From Vega

Author: Robert Randall

Release Date: April 21, 2021 [eBook #65127]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MENACE FROM VEGA ***




               Why would strangers abduct an insane girl
            from a psychiatric ward? Jim Lawrence found out
            that to answer this question he had to face a--

                           Menace From Vega

                           By Robert Randall

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                               June 1958
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The tall, darkly handsome man was grinning at Dr. James Lawrence from
the wrong side of a gun.

"Don't do anything foolish," the stranger said.

The psychiatrist swallowed and looked at the muzzle of the weapon. The
gun didn't look like any he had ever seen before, but he had no doubt
that it was deadly.

"What do you want?" he asked. He had never faced a gun before, but he
found, oddly enough, that he wasn't at all frightened. There was simply
a tense expectancy, a feeling of what's-coming-next? and no more.

"You have a patient at this hospital named Bette Bauer?" It was half a
question, half a statement.

Jim Lawrence looked at the intruder without answering. He knew Bette
Bauer--a tall, beautiful brunette with deep grey-green eyes. There was
nothing behind those eyes. She had been in St. Paul's Neuropsychiatric
Hospital for three years--a schizophrenic catatonic, completely out of
touch with the real world.

"You're behaving childishly," said the man with the odd-looking gun,
softly. "All I have to do is look through your files. Where is she?"

Lawrence shrugged. "Ward 3, Room 41. Why do you want to know?" He
glanced at the clock on the wall. It was nearly midnight.

"It doesn't matter," the stranger said. "Come along. Lead us to where
she is confined."

Outside the office, there were four men. They held their hands in
their pockets as though there were guns there. Lawrence glanced from
one to another. They all looked somewhat alike, all with that same dark
slimness and hardness of feature.

"What do you want?" Lawrence demanded.

"Just take us to Bette Bauer," the leader said. "If you do not, you
will be shot." He smiled.

It was the sight of that smile that made Jim Lawrence realize the cold
dangerousness of the man.

"Very well," Jim said. "Come this way."

As he led them down the hall toward Ward 3, Jim wondered about these
men. What interest could they have in Bette Bauer? She had once been
a brilliant physicist, and had shown signs of actual genius. But
something had happened to her shortly after she had received her
doctor's degree in theoretical physics. Her mind had become unbalanced,
and she had been committed to St. Paul's Hospital.

As Chief Psychiatrist, Dr. James Lawrence had worked with her
regularly; he was deeply interested in the girl. But he had been
completely unable to break the dazed, trancelike state that she had
been in for the past three years.

What did these five men want with her? And who _were_ they, anyway?
There was something odd about them, even aside from the peculiar
gun that the leader carried. Their clothes seemed wrong, as though
they weren't used to wearing them; their speech was strange in some
undefinable way.

When they reached Ward 3, Jim Lawrence took the keys from his pocket
and unlocked the main door. A night nurse at the desk looked up and
smiled.

"Good evening, Dr. Lawrence," she said sweetly. Then she saw the men
behind him, and her eyebrows lifted.

"We want to see Bette Bauer," Jim said, keeping his voice even.

"Certainly, Doctor." She led the way down the corridor to Room 41.
It was a padded cell; with Dr. Bette Bauer, naked to prevent her
from harming herself with her clothing, lying on the floor, crooning
mindlessly, her grey-green eyes staring out into nothingness.

The dark man said, "That's her. Pick her up."

As the four silent followers moved forward, Jim saw that the leader was
watching them--he had taken his eyes off Jim himself.

Lawrence reached out and made a grab for the gun--but the dark man was
a move ahead of him. He moved away smoothly, whirled, and brought the
gun down stunningly on Jim's head.

Jim threw a wild, wobbly punch at the man, and then the other four
moved in on him. He fought back blindly for a few moments, but then a
fist raked across his jaw, another smashed into his stomach, and the
gun descended a second time. It caught him on the side of the head, and
he sagged to the floor.

The thick padding was the last thing he felt before he blacked out.

       *       *       *       *       *

The pain of awakening was worse than the pain of the blow. Jim's head
throbbed as though there were a motorcycle engine inside it.

When he opened his eyes, the pain became worse. A brilliant light was
shining directly into his eyes. He winced and closed them again.

"Dim the light," said a softly slurred voice.

Jim opened his eyes again. This time, he saw what was standing over
him, and he recoiled in horror.

The being looked vaguely reptilian, but there was a touch of the insect
about it, too. It was green in color and covered with scales, like a
fish. It stood on two legs, towering above him and gazing at him with
bulging, faceted, insect-like eyes.

After the initial reaction of disgust came another thought: _I've got
to get out of here!_

He rose to a sitting position, swung out with a fist. But the creature
ducked lithely away from the blow. Cold hands on his shoulders pressed
him down again, and he knew it was futile to attempt to fight his way
out. He closed his eyes again--hard.

"You are afraid of us," said the soft voice. "You fear me because of my
appearance. Please do not. I--we--mean you no harm, Dr. Lawrence."

The thing was calling him by his own name. Lawrence shook his head to
get the cobwebs out of it. What was going on?

It had been an ordinary, peaceful day. Then, five hoodlums kidnapping
Bette Bauer, and that blow on the head--

And now this. Reptilian creatures with glittering eyes. Lawrence opened
his eyes again. The scene remained the same--but this time he could see
three similar creatures in the background.

"Who--what are you?"

And then, as he saw more of his surroundings, he asked, "Where is this?"

The alien said: "You are aboard our spaceship, Dr. Lawrence. We are
following the Vegan ship."

In spite of the alien's terrifying appearance, Jim sensed a curious
friendliness in its voice. "I'm--I'm afraid I don't understand. Those
men--"

The lizard-like being with the insect eyes sat down on a chair near the
bunk. "Dr. Lawrence, I am Nestiv Illon. I am the captain of this ship,
which is a war vessel in the Stellar Navy of Viagon.

"We are following the ship of Andsu Meero, the being who has kidnapped
your Dr. Bette Bauer. We--"

Jim sat up in the bunk. "Just a minute," he said, holding up a hand. "I
may be having a nightmare, but I still like to be sure of what's going
on. The last I remember, I was trying to keep a bunch of gangsters from
kidnapping one of my patients. Now I find myself here. Suppose you
start from the beginning--"

"I see," the alien said. "I did not realize you were so unfamiliar
with the situation. Those men who took the girl were working for Andsu
Meero. He is attempting to gain control of the entire galaxy--a goal
at which," the alien said, its voice dropping sadly, "at which he is
unfortunately succeeding."

Lawrence blinked. "How?"

"His race is telepathic to a certain extent. They can read the minds of
most other races, although they cannot read each other's minds."

"These are the Vegans?" Lawrence asked, trying to keep the story
assembled into a coherent pattern.

"Yes. They are the Vegans--a warlike people who are now trying to
overthrow the galactic government. Three years ago, Meero contacted the
mind of a brilliant young Earth girl who had discovered a weapon of
great significance--a death ray, to be precise."

"You mean Bette Bauer?"

"That was the girl's name. Meero discovered her shortly before we did.
My race is telepathic too. We found that Dr. Bauer had discovered
a system of mass annihilation that would enable any group to take
over the galaxy--but Meero had her first. He focussed a mind-static
generator on her and drove her insane. Naturally, he wanted the secret,
so he came here to Earth to get it, as soon as he decided it was safe.
By that time we, too, had found Earth, and followed."

"Only Meero had already grabbed the girl," Lawrence said.

"Exactly. We were too late. And now you understand the situation."

"Ah--yes," Lawrence said uneasily. "All but one thing. Why did you drag
_me_ into this?"

The alien paused for a moment and said, "We found you unconscious and
decided to take you into protective custody."

"But why? The Vegans have no use for me."

"No," Nestiv Illon said gently. "But we do."

       *       *       *       *       *

Another of the reptilian beings approached at that moment and inclined
its head toward Illon.

"What is it?"

"We're approaching Vega IX, sir."

"Very good," Illon said. "Shift into transparency-warp and go into
orbit."

"Yes, sir." The subordinate inclined his head once again and backed
away. Illon turned to Jim Lawrence.

"We are within striking range of the Vegan home base now. Here's where
you come in."

"What do you mean?" Lawrence asked.

The alien rose. "It is impossible, of course, for any of us to enter
the Vegan base, since no disguise will conceal our fundamental physical
appearance. But you--you are of the same general somatic type as the
Vegans. A little eye-shadow, a bit of plastotek applied here and there
to change the facial contours, and I think you could pass."

"You want me to dip into the Vegan base and rescue the girl? Is that
it?"

"Yes," Illon said.

"All very nice--but then what? Do I hand the death ray over to you and
let you conquer the galaxy? No, thanks; I might as well let the Vegans
do it."

Illon shook his head sadly. "We have no such plans, Jim Lawrence. We
are only concerned with keeping the annihilating ray out of the hands
of the Vegans, with placing it in the sane custody such a deadly weapon
deserves."

"How can I trust you?"

"It will be necessary, I'm afraid. You must believe that we plan no
aggression of our own. No--there is a way to prove it to you." He
leaned down and spoke rapidly into a microphone.

A few moments later an alien appeared, bearing a gleaming chromium
helmet. He handed it silently to Lawrence, who examined it curiously.

"What's this?"

"Put it on," Illon said softly.

"How do I know it's safe?"

"You have my word it's safe."

Suspiciously, Lawrence lifted the helmet and placed it on his head,
where it fit snugly. A stream of images filtered abruptly through his
mind.

The helmet was--a history book. It was a thought-record that stretched
back over centuries, over millenia, detailing the eon-old conflict
between the Vegans and Nestiv Illon's people. As the story unfolded,
Lawrence could see the cold malevolence of the Vegans opposed to the
wise, kind people of Viagon. Through a pattern of cosmic conflicts and
world-destroying wars, Lawrence grasped the history of the two peoples.
Vega had been threatening to extend its empire throughout the universe,
but had been checked at every point by the Viagoni, the guardians of
civilization.

Finally, Lawrence removed the helmet. It seemed that he had lived
through the history-record for hours, but a glance at his watch told
him that no more than a few seconds had passed.

Nestiv Illon was staring patiently at him. "Well?"

Lawrence smiled. "I'm with you," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

The small scoutship slipped easily through the hatch of the Viagoni
cruiser and spiralled down into the atmosphere of Vega IX. Aboard, Jim
Lawrence rocked in his deceleration cradle and tried to form a strategy
for landing.

By the time the Viagoni medics had finished with him, he was the very
image of a Vegan--thin and dark, sinister-looking, tight-faced. That
might get him _into_ the Vegan base--but how was he going to get out?

He shrugged his shoulders. _I'll worry about that when the time comes_,
he told himself. Now, he waited while the remote-controlled scoutship
brought him closer and closer to the planet below.

Finally it dropped to the ground. He stepped out and found himself in
the midst of a vast, bleak plain. About a half-mile to the east, a
cluster of little buildings was evident--the upper portions, Illon had
told him, of the fortified underground Vegan base.

He crossed the plain at a quick trot and slipped into a group of silent
Vegans who were coming out of one of the above-surface buildings and
heading toward a shaft that apparently led downward into the base. They
were clad in overalls, and looked like workers. None of them spoke to
him as he joined their ranks.

He moved along down into the shaft with them. A fantastic underground
world opened before his eyes.

Great lights overhead cast illumination on the scene. Buildings reared
up ten, fifteen, twenty stories; massive machines pumped pistons back
and forth, booming noisily. It was a gigantic base, a center for the
conquest of the universe.

And somewhere in the heart of all this--somewhere was Andsu Meero and
the mindless body of Bette Bauer. If Meero had the chance to restore
the girl's mind and drain from her the secret of the annihilating ray--

But he didn't want to think about that. He kept going with the group of
workers he had fallen in with, and found that they were marching toward
a squat, windowless building that was the center of a good deal of
activity.

The Vegans he was with were silent men, dark-faced and taciturn, and
he was thankful for that. There was none of the genial camaraderie
that might have been present between a bunch of Earthmen in a similar
position. He followed them into the building, and discovered that it
was a tool dispensary of some kind. Each man was marching up to a
closet and taking forth something that looked like a large, heavy brush.

Jim dropped back toward the end of the line and chewed at his lip. No
doubt the tools would be apportioned one for each man in the squad,
which meant they would be short one. And he didn't want the men he was
with to suspect anything; he wanted to stay with them at least until
he had formulated a more definite plan of action.

He lingered at the back of the line, looking around. There was no one
behind him. He reached out for the man just in front of him and whacked
him across the throat with the edge of his hand.

The man coughed and retched, and Lawrence clamped a hand over his mouth
to silence him. Another quick blow and the Vegan dropped. Quietly,
Lawrence dragged him away and deposited him in a closet nearby.

Then he returned to the line. Now there would be one broom for each
man, no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

When everyone was supplied, they marched solemnly back out the door of
the supply-room. Obediently, Lawrence followed along. No one seemed to
notice that a man was missing or that there was a stranger in the group.

They marched to the middle of the plaza, and there the first man in the
group bent and pried off a manhole. Then the Vegans began disappearing
even further into the earth. Tunnels within tunnels!

His turn came and he followed on down into the tunnel. For the first
time, one of the Vegans spoke, barking a short instruction in a harsh,
guttural language.

Lawrence heard the sound of air blowing through pipes, then the sound
of machinery grinding, then the slow whistle of the air-flow ceasing.
He realized where he was and what the crew was about to do, and his
heart surged. He had a plan, now.

He was in one of the air-shafts that fed the great subterranean Vegan
base. The air had just been shut off in this particular tube, and the
crew of Vegans he had joined was about to set to work scrubbing the
tube, ridding it of any impurities that might have accumulated.

Now he knew what to do. As he scrubbed merrily through the shining
length of the tube, he began to form his strategy.

It involved getting out of the tube, for one thing, and getting to a
medical office, if they had any such thing in the base. That was the
first step.

He counted to ten, then threw his broom in the air and uttered a
piercing shriek. Then he fell to the ground, panting and gasping, and
lay there flat against the cold metal of the airshaft.

Instantly his co-workers gathered around him. Twenty dark, unfriendly
faces peered down, and they began to gabble something in their
language that probably was the equivalent of "What's the matter with
you?"

He lolled his head from side to side as if to indicate that he had
suffered a stroke of some kind and couldn't speak. Drawing on his
psychiatric experience, Lawrence offered a good imitation of a
catatonic seizure, so convincing that before long he himself had burst
out in a cold sweat as he lay rigid there.

Another Vegan came over--evidently a superior--and rattled out a quick
command.

Immediately, two of the broom-workers put down their tools and hoisted
Lawrence between them. They began to march back through the airshaft
with him, up and out into the plaza again. They carried him into a
tall, gleaming building which was presumably the medical office.

He allowed one corner of his lip to curl upward in a smile of
satisfaction. So far, so good.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two doctors were in attendance. They studied him closely, tapped him,
prodded him, and held long colloquies with each other. After a few
minutes of this, one of them disappeared into the adjoining room of the
medical office, apparently to prepare some sort of test.

The other Vegan doctor took a few steps back and consulted a bulky
red-bound volume on his desk. Apparently he'd never seen a seizure like
this before.

With one bound Lawrence was off the bed and at the doctor's side. He
whirled him around, smashed a fist into the medic's lean jaw, another
into his stomach.

From behind him came a shout of surprise, as the other doctor returned
to the room. Quickly, Lawrence scooped the unconscious doctor up and
hurled him at the other. They both went down in a shower of crashing
glasswork, and Lawrence sprang on top of them. Three solid punches did
the job.

He hastily ripped strips from the bed and bound them securely. Then he
began to prowl through the drug cabinet.

It wasn't easy, trying to read the labels in the alien language, but
James Lawrence was skilled in the handling of drugs, and before long he
had found what he wanted despite his inability to read the labels.

It was a pain-killing drug, one that was in use on Earth as well as
Vega. He could tell by the familiar sugary taste of the white powder
that this was the stuff.

Humming softly to himself, he slipped the bottle under his overalls,
waved farewell to the sleeping doctors, and ducked out the door.

Five minutes later, he was back in the airshaft, wielding his broom
energetically. He forged on to the front of the group, heading further
and further along in the airshaft, until finally he came to the place
he was looking for--the tube that led to the heart of the air supply.

He looked around. No one was watching. He pushed open the door to the
tube and slid quietly inside, trotting lightly until he reached the
central pump.

"Sweet dreams," he said thoughtfully, as he inverted the bottle of the
drug into the feeder that led to the pump. With that stuff filtering
through the air, the whole base would be out like a light within an
hour or so. There was enough knockout-potential in a bottle of that
stuff, he thought, to keep everyone under wraps long enough for him to
find Bette Bauer and get the blazes out of here.

       *       *       *       *       *

Getting out was a harder job. It involved threading his way through the
maze of air-shafts once again, getting past the swabbing-crew, and out
into the open. But he made it. By now the air was beginning to smell
sweet, and he knew the drug was taking effect.

The problem now was to locate Meero. But that proved to be simple.
Lawrence headed across the plaza toward the pair of great buildings
that seemed to be the administrative sections of the base, and stopped
the first Vegan he saw.

"Andsu Meero?" he asked.

The Vegan looked blankly at him.

"_Andsu Meero_," Lawrence repeated, with great urgency.

The Vegan pointed to the building on the left and uttered a stream
of words. Lawrence smiled politely and headed toward the left-hand
building.

After he had gone about half the distance, he noticed the increase in
the sweetness in the air. He stopped, ripped off his shirt, and wrapped
it over his mouth and nose. That would be ample protection.

By the time he reached the building, the guards posted outside were
safely asleep. He seized one of the strange pistols from them, and
entered.

Where to find Meero and the girl, he wondered. Vegans were sagging into
sleep all over the lobby of the building. Shrugging his shoulders, he
decided there was only one way. He would have to look in every room of
the immense building.

But he didn't have far to look. After about ten minutes' search of the
slumber-wrapped building, he stepped into an ornate, impressive-looking
building, and found Meero.

Awake.

The thin Vegan whirled in astonishment as Lawrence entered. He
was at the back of the room, bending over the nude form of Bette
Bauer. Lawrence noticed a strange odor in the room, even through his
improvised face-mask--and it wasn't the odor of the drug he'd slipped
into the air system.

Angrily, Andsu Meero ripped out a barking sentence in Vegan. Then his
eyes narrowed. "Oh, the Earthman? How did _you_ get in here?"

Lawrence's pistol rose. "Get away from that girl, Meero. Get away or
I'll shoot you."

"Just try," Meero chuckled. He calmly drew his own gun from its
holster, and Lawrence realized with a shock that he was as good as
unarmed, because he did not know how to use the Vegan gun!

He hurled the useless gun at Meero and dove behind a chair just as the
Vegan's pistol fired. A section of the wall caved in. Lawrence peered
out, then ducked back as he saw Meero looking for him.

Cautiously, he began to thread his way along the side of the room
toward Meero.

"Don't move, Earthman," Meero said coldly. "I see you."

"But you don't see me!" cried a new voice. Surprised, the alien turned,
and in that moment Lawrence sprang and hit him with all he had. The
gun went flying from the Vegan's hands. He struck back, but Lawrence
parried the blow and smashed his fists into Meero's face. The alien
rolled over and lay still.

Lawrence glanced up at Bette Bauer, who had spoken.

"You saved my life," he said.

"And you mine." She reddened, and snatched a drape from the wall to
cover her nakedness. "Meero was just about to drain my mind for--" She
paused.

"I know what for," Lawrence said. "I know the whole thing." He glanced
around. "I might have known," he said. "Meero was using some kind of
drug on you, wasn't he?"

She nodded.

"There's time for explanation later," Lawrence said. "The Viagoni are
waiting for us, to take us back to Earth and to safety."

"What about Meero?"

"He'll go with all the rest of them," Lawrence said. "When we've built
your annihilator, and when we've wiped out this cancer spot of the
universe. Let's go."

He took her by the hand, and they raced through the sleeping Vegan base
to the waiting Viagoni ship.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MENACE FROM VEGA ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
