ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Get Out of My Body!, by Tom W. Harris

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Get Out of My Body!

Author: Tom W. Harris

Release Date: April 27, 2021 [eBook #65176]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GET OUT OF MY BODY! ***




                  Consider an alien infiltrating our
                  world--impossible to catch because
                   he might inhabit any person--even
                  you! You'd likely start screaming--

                          GET OUT OF MY BODY!

                           By Tom W. Harris

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             February 1958
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"I have come to discuss a very grave problem," said the
talking-attendant.

"Then let's get down to details," said Chester Forge. "It's urgent you
said."

Interviews with Ravians always made Chester nervous. They wouldn't use
the psi-control voice sets, and there was something uncanny in talking
to a human, a talking-attendant, when you knew it wasn't the man
speaking at all, but the alien intelligence he was temporarily host to.

It was even more unsettling when the Ravian was a high official,
as at present. Their minds were even more coldly intellectual, dry
and logical than the usual Ravian tourist's. And they could make a
lot of trouble. Chester's job as tour-chief here at Knoxville--more
specifically, Port Knoxville, where the ships came in--was to keep the
tourists happy as possible. No, not happy. Happiness is an emotion.
Satisfied maybe.

"There are scant useful details I can give you," said Monnn, the
Ravian, through the lips of the talking-attendant. "There was a
stowaway on the sightseeing ship that came in this morning--one of our
people. He is a fugitive. He has left the ship and is here on earth
somewhere, perhaps in Knoxville. He must be captured."

Chester Forge was jolted, but he had found you got on better with
Ravians if you never showed feelings. He made his voice calm.

"A fugitive, hmmm? What was his crime?"

"The question is immaterial," said Monnn. "So typical of your people.
But I suppose you will function better if not bothered by curiosity.
Minnn, the stowaway, told a lie."

"A lie?"

"The worst of crimes. Minnn was a politician, campaigning for office,
and he lied in making a promise he could not execute."

By Joe, thought Chester, now I've heard them all. Well, the rule is you
never, never question the tastes of an alien. The Martians have a mad
passion for hop-toads, the Zarlos like to have things hurt them, the
Frin talk all the time and the Rorn don't talk at all, and--

"We'll get him for you," said Chester more firmly than he felt.

"We feel you may fail," said the Ravian. "We ask permission to send our
own searchers, no quota on numbers, open-area travel permission."

Chester went white. "I'm afraid we can't grant that. I promise we'll
get him for you."

"Why can you not grant that?"

"Well--population. There aren't enough volunteers to host any more than
the present quota, and of course you can't get around without hosts."

"How human," said Monnn through the attendant. "You are afraid of us.
Yet you know we have no desire at all for this planet, and that we know
you know this.

"Why do you lie? On our planet you would be treated as Minnn will
be--your personality dismembered, the useful parts assigned to another,
the imperfect disposed of."

"Be that as it may," said Chester, a chill in his spine. "We will find
this fugitive ourselves."

"Of course. And if you do not, within two of your days, we must come
to search ourselves. One more thing--Minnn may turn killer. And now I
shall retire--manipulating this organism is most fatiguing."

The talking-attendant stood blank-faced for a moment as the Ravian
withdrew to some nook of his mentality. Then he blinked and peered
around, discovered he was in Forge's office, and saluted.

"That's okay, John," said Chester. "Thanks. Take him back to his husk."

The attendant left and Chester picked up his visor, punching the button
for Security Chief....

       *       *       *       *       *

On Clinch Street, little Sally Odum was walking home from school. She
turned down an alley for a shortcut, and there she saw the toy. It
was a black, fringed globe, a little larger than a grapefruit. "Gee!"
exclaimed Sally, and reached out and grabbed it.

The globe changed from black to gray, from shiny to dull, and from firm
to flaccid. Sally felt a little tingle in her fingertips, a tiny tug
in her mind. Looking thoughtful, she slipped the limp toy under her
jacket. She trotted home, hid the thing at the bottom of her toy box,
and promptly forgot about ever finding it.

Minnn, exhausted from the psionic strain of rolling his body through
the thick earth air all the way from the port to the city, and then
directing the feeling and movement of Sally, made one little adjustment
in her memory, then turned off his awareness and rested. In the rich
rush of mental currents he would soon be replenished. In the meantime
he was safe....

       *       *       *       *       *

The Ravian had given Chester Forge two days to find Minnn. A day had
passed and nothing had happened. He had kept things quiet, up to now.
There was no indication his quiet search would produce anything. It was
time for a different tactic....

       *       *       *       *       *

Sally Odum's father looked up from the news-sheets that had just come
off the clicker. "Mary, did you see these items about the Ravian loose
in the city?"

His wife was playing chack with Sally. The child had beaten her four
games running, and Mary was just beginning to wonder if she was mother
to a genius. A mother does not appreciate interruption of such
musings. "Ah--no," she answered absently. "What about um?"

"Seems this bird--Minnn's his tag--is thought to be hiding out in some
human around town. He forced."

Mary was more interested. "Isn't forcing against galactic convention?"

"Darn right. This guy's a fugitive, like I said."

"I knew they'd get in trouble, letting these foreigners come down."

"Look, honey. One thing, we need the trade. A Ravian pays four picks of
plainum for a day or two in a human. It's all here in the news-sheet.
A Ravian hasn't got emotions, and when they're in a host they can feel
everything the host feels. Real Kicks. The host gets to spend one pick
himself--a small fortune--he has a shivaree and the Ravian goes for the
ride. And for the host it's all voluntary."

"What about this Minnn?"

Sally listened with bright attention, slightly flushed.

"It says here he could be anywhere, any man, woman or child. Tells how
you can spot 'em and names a reward. Person with old Minnn inside is a
little flushed, feverish, doesn't sleep very well. They...."

"Say, honey, Sally didn't sleep well last night. Do you think she's all
right?"

"Any kid has a restless night sometimes, Mary. Lemme finish. The person
is apt to be kind of listless, and might have memory blanks. Oh--and
the Ravian enters a host by some kind of physical contact, and he can
get to another host only by a contact with the first one."

"Maybe we ought to take Sally to Dr. Price, hon. She just hasn't been
herself lately."

"Oh well," sighed Odum, and threw down the clicker-story. "Tell you
what. All you do is visor security, tell them you're pretty sure a
person has this Ravian, and the person gets a real good physical--free.
Let's just tell them Sal has the symptoms and get a deal."

Sally got up listlessly and the screen banged as she wandered out.

"What symptoms?" asked Mary.

"You mean you weren't listening?" And Mr. Odum told Mrs. Odum all the
signs the article had listed, while Mrs. Odum gradually paled.

"But--those are exactly the symptoms she does have," she said when he
finished. Their eyes met and he reached for the visor.

The security cops arrived. Chester was with them. As they boiled
from their 'copter they nearly knocked over an old gentleman who was
creaking his way delicately along the sidewalk, and one cop stepped on
a small dog, which bit him.

Two of them stayed with Sally, who stood in the yard with a scared
expression; two others entered the house with Chester. They all came
out of the house and Mary explained to Sally that she was not to be
frightened. Sally was given a nice raincoat with built-in mittens--it
was triple-ply mento-insulation plastic--and everybody bundled into the
'copter.

Sally liked the ride and the raincoat, but when it was all over she was
sad. Mr. Forge seemed disappointed somehow....

       *       *       *       *       *

Minnn lay quiet in his new host soaking in data. Perfesser Frye ...
old ... quiet, jogging complex of contentment, and dissatisfaction.
Cheated on price of eggs ... nice house over there, awful the way
they've changed things ... little girl, patted her on the head, might
have had a child like that. Enjoy what you can. Glow-thought connected
with something called beer.

Minnn was shocked to find that, almost the opposite of Sally,
Perfesser Frye was a complete liar. He was not a professor, and the
knowledge he impressed people with was mostly a collection of long,
mispronounced words and memorized facts of which the Perfesser did
not know the meaning. His landlady believed he was coming into an
immense inheritance based on platinum on Vega, and she allowed him
a familiarity which Minnn found amusing and which included rent
exemption. The man was a collection of lies. Even his rheumatism was
not genuine, but psychosomatic.

That evening the Perfesser had the unpleasant experience of seeing
his own face on the landlady's show-visor set, with the information
that there was a price on his head. This was the last he remembered
for some time, although to the landlady he appeared to retain full
consciousness. He leaped to his feet most unrheumatically, tied her
up, bashed in the visor, and pattered out into the streets, which were
deserted.

The Perfesser had good eyes for distance use, Minnn found. He swung
the Perfesser's hook-beaked head about searchingly. At the end of the
street men were coming, in mento-insulation. Minnn swung the lanky
frame about, almost capsizing it, and sprinted long-leggedly in the
opposite direction.

In a few blocks the heart was pounding and the face was hot and the
lungs could not suck enough oxygen. The Perfesser was not feeling
anything consciously, but his parasympathetic nervous system was giving
Minnn the horrors.

The cops could not be seen. Minnn withdrew to rest. The Perfesser came
to an abrupt halt, and gazed about him glassily. He remembered the
nightmarish moment watching the visor; now he found himself in the
street panting like a horse and raining sweat. He stood getting his
breath and trying to think, then moved off purposefully....

       *       *       *       *       *

Chester's eyes felt like they would drop out on his desk at any moment.
He had had no sleep. He was entertaining a plan to visit the Ravians,
in disguise, as a tourist, and make things miserable for _them_, when
two buzzers rang at once.

He answered his chief's buzzer first. Had Minnn been caught? No? Well,
the governor had called and the heat was on. The chief was forced to
give Forge a choice of producing Minnn in 24 hours or being sent as
supercargo to the Mars-deserts. That was all.

The second buzzer was Monnn, speaking through "a talking-attendant."

"Your two days are up this evening," said the Ravian. "Any progress?"

"We ought to have him any time now."

"Nonsense. Minnn had been in that young girl--I could tell, when she
was here."

Forge got little pleasure from his reply. "I know that. We're after the
man Minnn moved to."

Monnn was unperturbed. "Good. You have about an hour."

"One thing," said Chester. "You say Minnn might kill. Any special way
he'd go about it?"

"How should I know?" asked Monnn. "Minnn is an outlaw, under pursuit
and away from his planet. On our planet there are no killings." And he
hung up....

       *       *       *       *       *

The Perfesser, umbrella under his arm, black serge suit dusty, walked
down a long alley and into Steve's Beer Bar. Beer, he always figured,
was a real help when you were perplexed.

Minnn witnessed this logic with disgust. The Perfesser's memory-units
showed the beer just made him more perplexed. But Minnn was resting in
witness-state, very tired from making the Perfesser do all that running.

The Perfesser hooked his umbrella over the bar and was waited upon by
Steve himself. "You look kinda bushed," said Steve respectfully.

"A man my age must watch himself, Steve. Especially when he is
enervated by the hardihoods of lifetime scholarship."

"Rough," said Steve admiringly. He didn't know what the language meant
but it sounded gorgeous.

The Perfesser turned to a pushed-down man beside him at the bar. "You
would hardly believe, friend, what has just happened to me. One moment
I was watching a home-visor-view--and the next I was standing in the
street. I can scarcely credit this phenomenon."

"Funny things happen," said the pushed-down man. "I drive a laundry
truck, and one stop is out to the national asylum. They got people out
there what don't know where they even came from, too."

"You sure this really happened, Perfesser?" said Steve. "I mean--you
wouldn't make it up or nothing." The Perfesser had drunk only one "fish
bowl" of beer--it was a little early for his star-spangled lying.

"I can aver it happened," said the Perfesser stiffly. "A phenomena of
psychic rarity--similar things have occurred to intellectual persons at
various points in history."

Minnn was not enjoying himself. Humans were fun when they were having
fun, but other moods were unendurable. Coupled with illogic it was
worse. Minnn was considering shifting to the truck driver when the man
suddenly arose. "Well, night, Steve, Perfesser--I gotta get the sheets
a-rolling," said the man, and vanished out the back door.

It was seconds later that two policemen burst in the front door
and headed straight for the Perfesser. Minnn acted instantly. The
Perfesser's awareness was clamped out and the creaking frame was sent
speeding to the back door.

Down the alley the laundry truck was starting, and the Perfesser's
voice sailed after it, "Wait, fellow. Hold on!"

The truck slowed and the wizened face of the driver peered back just in
time to see the police burst into the alley and open fire. The face was
withdrawn instantly and the truck gained speed.

The Perfesser ran after it, shouting until his breath gave out. There
was junk in the alley and it was crisscrossed by other alleys with
traffic on them and the driver dared not approach top speed. The cops
shot twice again at the Perfesser, who was running like an antelope.

Minnn felt a crash in the Perfesser's shoulder and the tall body
swayed. A bit of lead had entered the clavicle. Minnn strained and
the ends of the veins constricted, slowing the loss of blood. The
Perfesser's heart and lungs were behaving alarmingly but Minnn kept the
body running. He was gaining on the truck.

The truck gained speed and so did the Perfesser. Ancient arteries,
brittled with deposits, strained and began to give. The Perfesser's
arm raised as he drew alongside the truck. The umbrella-tip neared the
driver.

       *       *       *       *       *

A bullet grazed the Perfesser's side--Minnn suddenly realized they were
not shooting to kill: and also the shaky frame he had taken would not
be able to run much longer. With a surge of concentration he pushed the
body forward. The umbrella-tip touched the driver, Minnn drove himself
down the metal ferrule, somewhere an artery burst, and the body of the
Perfesser sagged, wobbled, and, still carried forward by momentum,
smashed into a wall and toppled over. It lay there on its back. Being
front-man for a Ravian had been Perfesser Frye's last falsehood.

The truck got out of the alley, going fast, and kept going fast until
it came to the asylum. The driver did not go to the back door--there
might be people waiting for him. He walked in the front door, up to the
receptionist, and touched her. Then he discovered himself standing
there, and walked embarrassedly out again.

The receptionist remained at her desk. A visitor was moving toward her;
as he passed, the receptionist touched his hand.

Down a hallway opening into the reception room came a little group of
men--three attendants from the hospital and the hospital director; a
talking-attendant and Chester Forge, and the truck driver. All were
gloved and clad in mento-insulation but the talking-attendant.

"I was standing right here," said the driver excitedly. "Right here in
front of this desk."

The talking-attendant rested his hand on the receptionist's forehead.
"Not there now," he declared.

"Have any of you seen anyone near this desk?" called the director to
the room at large. A woman pointed to the visitor the receptionist had
touched. "He was!"

The visitor began to run.

"We've got to get him before he gets into a patient!" yelled Chester.
"In an unbalanced mind even Monnn can't find him! Get him."

They went plunging after the visitor.

Minnn was pleased. He had a head start, and this human had good running
potential. He would have fun. An interne stepped out of a door, the
visitor touched his hand, the interne stepped back through the door,
rapidly. The searchers swirled down the hall and grabbed the visitor
and Monnn made his test. "Not here now," he reported.

The interne strolled into an elevator, went up a story, walked quietly
down another corridor. Excitement was percolating through the place
almost as though the inmates breathed it. There were many inmates on
this floor; he could force into one almost at leisure.

Another elevator jarred to a stop, doors opened, and the searchers
bolted out. Chester's face was like a purple plum, his eyes were red
and wild. The long chase was teasingly close to ending, and could be
frustrated forever.

The interne turned and thumbed his nose at Forge, who gave a bellow
of anger. As the men surged toward him, the attendant sprinted a few
yards, reached out and touched a patient. The halls were full of them;
attracted by the excitement. Unobtrusively the patient touched another,
who in turn touched another, who disappeared in the crowd.

"Go back to your rooms," shouted the director of the hospital. "You are
impeding a hunt for a fugitive."

But the patients didn't see any fugitive, and they stayed, and more
kept coming.

There was a disconcerting blur of thought-emotion in the patient Minnn
was using. The pursuers were the length of the hall away; he caused his
host to turn, shriek a bad word, and thumb her nose at them.

They came running, impeded by the crowd. The patient turned a corner,
touched another patient, who touched another.

It was quite an experience, Minnn decided. He had whirled through a
rich kaleidoscope of minds and emotions; in one woman there had been a
fountain of ecstacy he would have to go back and sample sometime. He
had come to the perfect place. Except as he chose to do it, to tease,
these inmates could not reveal him, and no Ravian could detect him. He
could stay here an indefinite length of time--wait them out--then go
back to the toy chest where his husk lay--or trace Sally Odum's memory
for it in case she had moved it--and repossess himself.

He could learn to live on this planet--perhaps he could even get
governmental sanctuary, though that was not essential. He would not be
lonely. Ravians do not get lonely. They do, however, have a sense of
power.

But the pursuers were coming down the hall, the Ravian in the
talking-attendant attempting to sort through the twisted minds, the
person from the tourist service almost out of his own mind. And though
Minnn was having sport, he was a little tired. He turned the eyes of
his host toward the group of hunters, and saw that they had stopped
coming and stood talking. He walked his host to a window-bench, sat it
down, turned its mind toward slumber, and relaxed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chester had to have a plan, and, driven to unwonted efficiency by the
threat of bureaucratic disgrace and exile, his mind began to form one.
The plan was not without its dangers, especially to Chester, but it was
the only plan they had.

Power was shut off to all elevators, and at the flip of a switch all
the doors on the group's floor were locked. "We've got him penned on
this floor," said Chester. "I only hope he doesn't come across a mouse."

"He's probably on this floor," corrected Monnn through the
talking-attendant. "And he'll _probably_ stay. Ravians have a slight
psionic control, as you know, and it's barely possible Minnn could
force himself through a door-panel."

"How about a wall?"

"I doubt it."

"What if there was nobody on the other side for him to force into?"

"He would not last very long ... we would lose him. And that would go
hard for you, Mr. Forge, because we do not want Minnn done away with,
we want him captured."

"I don't need to be reminded," said Chester, mentally getting a
two-handed hold on the always-be-polite-to-a-tourist rule. "And now
let's smoke him out."

The director and a helper lingered unobtrusively near a firehose;
the rest of the group strolled on down the hall. Minnn had rested
and was alert again. Through his host-eyes he saw there were many
patients milling about--there were so many ready refuges. It occurred
to him that he had not particularly bedeviled his countryman, and he
caused his host to pick up a vase and hurl it at the head of Monnn's
talking-attendant.

Almost instantly a blast of chill water struck Minnn's host, knocking
her sprawling. Minnn found her emotions most unpleasant. He took her
mind fully, forcing her up from the floor, and a ram of water pounded
her down again. Somebody was rounding up the other patients, pushing
them out of his reach. People were yelling, running.

Somebody down the hall aimed a wide-nozzled gun at Minnn's host. There
was also the blat of an explosion and something hit his host in the
chest. "What poor weapons," thought Minnn, and then the thing exploded.
A thick gas swaddled the host-patient, Minnn felt the body sagging.
There was no time for him to weigh all factors for a really logical
decision, and he made a snap-judgment to leave this body before it lost
consciousness and sealed off his contact with his environment.

A form was stumbling past, and Minnn reached his host's hand up and
touched it. In a flash he had entered. Almost instantaneously he
realized that this time it was different. The nervous system was alive
with wild, determined resistance.

His host was Chester Forge.

Chester reeled back from the gas-shrouded, drowsing inmate. The gas
would stay near her, held by the biostatic charge in all its particles.
He had to keep away from it; he needed all his consciousness for his
battle.

He would never be able to quite describe many of the things he felt
during the struggle he waged within his own organism like a civil war.
Minnn had entered at his right wrist. Although Chester had mentally
braced, the alien had surged up his arm almost instantaneously, nearly
to the shoulder. Chester called on his mind to hold Minnn there. He
worked some part of his mind to hold Minnn there. He worked some part
of his mind like a new muscle--one cannot explain how it is he works a
muscle, he just does it. Simultaneously Chester reeled down the hall
toward where Monnn, in the talking-attendant, stood by an open door.
Monnn and the door were his two aces in the hole.

His flesh crawled; the alien was digging, seeping, sparking through
him, along his nerves, like a fluid, a worm, a gas, an insidious
writhing electricity. And the alien was winning. Inexorably he drove
along the stubborn channels to the seat of control, the watchroom in
the skull.

The talking-attendant stood with a rustling, limp black sac
out-held--Minnn's husk, taken from the toy chest of Sally Odum. If
Chester could force the writhing Minnn back down and out of his
fingertips and into the husk....

But he couldn't. The sweat rolled down his face as the fight went on
inside him. He had no way of knowing what would happen when Minnn, who
was nearing it, reached his brain. Insanity? Convulsions? Death? At
the very least, Minnn would control him, and also know his thoughts,
his plan, his two aces in the hole.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a twist and a tingle at the base of his skull--the invader
was entering his brainstalk. It was time to play his first ace. With a
burst of determination to control his reeling motor functions, Chester
reached out his hand and touched the hand of the talking-attendant.
Monnn swished vengefully inside him.

When they had discussed this the others had been afraid. So had
Chester. Two alien forces, one hostile, both struggling, might rip
and rupture his psychic system like lightning bolts battling inside
a transistor. But Chester Forge was a stubborn man, with perhaps a
bureaucratic stubbornness, certainly a human stubbornness, and he was
committed to an end to be achieved.

For a few split seconds there was in Chester's nervous system what
might be described as a "hush." He took advantage of it to step through
the open door into a dimly-lighted room. The hospital director,
insulation-swathed, followed with the leather-rustling husk.

Then Minnn and Monnn locked forces, and Chester reeled with the shock
and swirl of the combat. The two forces mixed, fused, separated,
mingled, yet Chester somehow knew always which was which, got bursts
of the reasoning of each, knew in some indescribable way the alien,
indecipherable natures of each of them. For an instant he panicked.
Something mysterious and terrible as the dark energy of infinity was
pounding and flashing in his merely human synapses and cells, something
he understood yet could not understand at all.

He felt a draining, and knew Minnn was tapping him for energy. Chester
rallied to help Monnn. He pulled his energy, his thoughts, away from
Minnn, rolling up, balling, clenching his powers, keeping them out of
reach, probing for a chance to strike. Minnn filamented through half
his body; part of the alien was needling and darting into Chester's
mind, burrowing toward knowledge of his plan. Chester buried his plan
in the very center of the ball of thoughts, hiding his last ace.

He could not keep this up much longer, and he could feel that both
Minnn and Monnn knew this. It was time for the big assault. He sent
flash after flash of willpower crisping through his nerves, and Monnn
interwove himself in these assaults. Minnn was being forced back, and
back, intolerably pressured.

Minnn hurled his energies at them in a sudden rush, and Chester felt
something in him begin to tear like a piece of silk.

Concealed from Minnn like the kernel of a nut, Chester cupped the
knowledge, his last ace. He was at the verge of cracking, now was the
time to play it. He edged toward the wall of the room, where a patient
sat darkly on a bench. At the same time both he and Monnn drove forth
their last few ergs of pressure against Minnn.

Chester felt something raise his arm. His arm moved toward the patient;
his palm touched the man's cheek. There was a sudden cleanness in him,
and Minnn was gone.

He leaped backward through the door and it swung to and locked. A
peep-panel was opened in it and the black fringed husk hung up before
the opening. Chester touched the talking-attendant so Monnn could pass
over, then leaned weakly against the wall opposite the door.

"I give him half an hour," he said. "Who's got a drink of water?"

It turned out that they had waited only twenty-two minutes when the
fringed sac began to take a luster, to puff and to fill. When they were
quite sure Minnn was entirely within it, they wrapped it tightly in
the insulation and took it away.

"It was a good plan," said Monnn through the talking-attendant as
they drove back toward the town. "We could never have forced him to
leave you to enter his husk--his logic would have driven him to fight
even harder and to stay, with rather unfortunate results to you, Mr.
Forge, but under pressure he would leave to enter another host. And
it was lucky the walls of that room held him--as you said, that was a
gamble we had to take. But I wish you would again describe to me the
phenomenon in that room. It sounds quite strange."

"It's something that happens to humans," said Chester, "and I knew no
Ravian could put up with it. Illogic disturbs you, and you tour in
human beings only for the sake of one kind of emotion, the pleasant
kind. In that room there was no logic, and the emotions were of a
different kind, a kind you haven't heard of. The humans there were in
what is called a depressive ward. They are illogically unhappy, all the
time."

"I see," said Monnn through the lips of the attendant. "You have good
logic, Mr. Forge. I have a new respect for human logic. Yes."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GET OUT OF MY BODY! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
