ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Never Trust a Thief!, by Ivar Jorgensen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Never Trust a Thief!

Author: Ivar Jorgensen

Release Date: May 01, 2021 [eBook #65210]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NEVER TRUST A THIEF! ***




                Kiley felt all-powerful with the alien
            guiding him in the looting of a world. Now the
            whole galaxy was his if he could remember to--

                         Never Trust A Thief!

                           By Ivar Jorgensen

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             February 1958
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Kiley took one last, fond look at the glittering heap of jewels in the
back of the spaceship, nodded happily to himself, and began to set up
a blastoff orbit. Somewhere down on the field far below, he could see
dot-like figures--spaceport attendants, all firmly convinced that this
was an authorized flight.

He chuckled. _This is the right way to pull a job_, he thought
contentedly. _Hypnotize 'em silly and then walk in and take what you
want._

His fingers skipped lightly over the control panel as he readied the
ship for blastoff. For the first time in his life he felt truly happy.
Two million stellors of rare gems in the back of the ship, and even
after cutting Thaklaru in for his share, that still left a million. A
million stellors! Lord, that sounded good!

_Well, Kiley, are you going to spend all day dreaming? I'm waiting for
you!_

The rolling thunder of Thaklaru's voice in Kiley's mind jolted him back
to reality. "I'm on my way," he said out loud, knowing that the alien
was listening. "I've got the stuff, and I'll be there before you know
it."

_Good. I'm anxious to see those jewels._

"Don't worry about it, Thaklaru."

_I'm not worrying. But I know you'd be quite willing to blast off in
the other direction and keep them all for yourself._

Kiley grinned. "Nothing's secret from you, eh, Thaklaru? You don't miss
a thing."

_I can't afford to_, the alien's telepathic voice said. _The first rule
in thievery is never to trust an accomplice._

"That makes sense," Kiley admitted. "Only there's no way I can escape
you--not when you can telepath anywhere in the galaxy. How do I get to
your planet?"

_Don't trouble yourself. Simply blast off and I'll assume mental
control of your ship once you're out in space. I'd prefer that the
location of my world remain a secret even to you._

Kiley shrugged. "Okay. I won't argue. I'm blasting off now."

He jabbed down on the firing stud.

The stolen spaceship sprang up into the void, and Kiley felt the
alien's mental emanations enfolding him, seizing control of the ship,
guiding it--just as, a month before, similar emanations had come to
him in the darkness of a jail cell in the Under-Dungeon of Alpheraz VII.

They had nailed him for a bungled burglary--he'd have made it, all
right, except that he hadn't foreseen one of the new-model psionic
alarms--and, since he was a four-timer, they'd stuck him in solitary
deep in the dank heart of the planet.

The guard, a thick-muscled Alpherazian with three cold, slitted eyes,
had hurled him into the cell, thrown him sprawling against the slimy
stone.

"That ought to hold you, Kiley!" the Alpherazian growled. "You've
stolen your last jewel, Earthman."

"Get out of here!" Kiley said thinly. "Don't stand here and gloat. I'd
be free and out of here if that crazy alarm hadn't popped off."

The guard chuckled. "Relax and cool off, Kiley. You've got plenty of
time to get used to your new home."

The door clanged shut. Kiley spat in the darkness as he heard the bolt
slipping home--the unbreakable, foolproof bolt of the escape proof
Alpheraz jail. And then--

_How would you like to be free in five minutes?_ a voice asked.

"Huh? Who's there?" Kiley looked around, narrowing his eyes to see in
the foggy blackness, but there was no one within sight.

_Don't strain your eyes_, the voice said--and Kiley realized it was an
unspoken voice in his mind. _I'm a thousand light-years away. The name
is Thaklaru._

"Who are you? _What_ are you?"

_That doesn't concern you. I need your professional services, and I
have a proposition to make._

"Go ahead," Kiley said, mystified.

_You're a jewel-thief--and a good one. I can aid you in such a way that
you'll be a perfect one._

"What do you mean?"

_How would you like the power of instant hypnosis?_ the alien asked.
_You could go anywhere you liked--simply by convincing people you
belonged there. My mind, projected out through the focus of yours,
could do this thing. We could work as partners, and divide fifty-fifty._

"Hold on," said Kiley suspiciously. "What do you need _me_ for, then?
If you've got this power, why not just rob whatever you want yourself?"

There was the voiceless equivalent of a chuckle. _I do not like to
leave my home world. You will act as my travelling--ah--agent._

"Sounds good to me," Kiley said. "I've got nothing to lose, anyway. But
how do I get out of here?"

_A simple matter. Just be patient._

Kiley waited. A few minutes later, the Alpherazian jailer showed
up--but the look of scorn was gone from his eyes.

"Dreadfully sorry, Mr. Smith," the guard said humbly. "There's been
some mistake here--we thought you were someone else. Naturally, we'll
indemnify you for this inconvenience."

"That's all right," Kiley said casually. "Mistakes _do_ happen, you
know."

"This way, please. We're terribly sorry about the whole affair."

Kiley smiled as the guard led him out of the cell-block to freedom.
_You're a man of your word, Thaklaru_, he thought. _It's a deal._

       *       *       *       *       *

Once free, Kiley had spent a very pleasant three weeks on Alpheraz
VII. Thaklaru's mind was with him at all times--and with his power of
instant hypnosis, all doors were open to him. It was a simple matter.

The big coup came when Kiley grew tired of the planet's pleasures. He
travelled to the Emperor's palace.

The guards bowed to him as he approached. "Good afternoon, your
majesty!"

Kiley smiled politely and kept on going. He walked quickly through the
palace, stopping only to ask a butler where the jewel-room was.

As it turned out, the Emperor himself was in the jewel-room. "Pardon
me, your majesty," Kiley said. "I'll have to have some of these, I'm
afraid."

The monarch looked up, met Kiley's eye, and froze. "Of course," he
said politely. "Go right ahead." And he stood to one side while Kiley
plundered the crown jewels.

From there, he travelled to the spaceport outside the city, where he
commandeered a small one-man ship by asking its pilot to leave. Guided
by Thaklaru, he arranged for clearance and blasted off.

It had been simple. Terribly, terribly simple--almost dull, Kiley
reflected, as his ship sped through space toward Thaklaru's home world.
He wondered idly what his partner-in-crime looked like. A grotesque
pulsating slug floating in a bath of some slimy fluid, perhaps? It
would have to be something along those lines, Kiley thought--something
that would keep Thaklaru from entering the worlds of the galaxy by
himself and taking whatever he pleased.

"We make a good team, Thaklaru," Kiley said aloud.

_True_, the alien said. _With my power and your agility, we could steal
anything the galaxy contained._

Kiley turned and looked at the heap of jewels again. Two million
stellors! Quickly, he computed the value in Earth currency, and gasped.
The haul was worth nearly ten billion dollars!

Perspiration broke out all over him. He tried frantically not to think
what he was thinking, but there was no way to keep the thoughts from
flooding into his mind.

He heard Thaklaru chuckling. _No, Kiley. There's no way you can cheat
me of my share of the wealth._

"Dammit, Thaklaru, do you have to keep listening to my mind? Can't I
have a _little_ privacy?"

_Don't fear, Kiley. Your reaction is a perfectly understandable one,
and I hold no rancor against you for desiring great wealth. I expect
you to think that way--which is why I keep listening to you. I never
trust an accomplice, remember._

A new thought entered Kiley's mind. "Say--what do you _need_ these
jewels for? Seems to me you could have anything you wanted, money no
object--so why do you want to be rich?"

_Rich? I do not want to be rich. The jewels are pretty, though--and I
like beautiful things. I covet them for purely esthetic reasons._

"Okay with me," Kiley said. "I have more practical ends in mind."

_It is understandable. Ah--you are approaching my home world now.
Please prepare for deceleration._

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later, Kiley stood on the soil of Thaklaru's planet and looked
around.

_Welcome_, the alien's voice said.

Kiley stood by the side of his spaceship and stared at the awesome
sight. A vast chain of naked mountains sprang up like a row of
gigantic teeth to the east--bare, jagged peaks stretching up into dim
immensity, twenty and thirty and forty thousand feet in air. Wild
savage-looking vegetation swept fiercely around him, trees well over a
thousand feet high and looking to be a block wide at their base. Just
at a distance of a few feet, a monstrous cliff reared straight upward
toward the swirling black-and-gold clouds. It was a strange and utterly
primitive world.

"Okay, I'm here!" Kiley shouted. "Where are you?"

_I will be with you soon_, the alien responded. _Take the jewels from
the ship._

"How do I decide which are yours and which are mine?"

_Take them all. We will decide once they are out of the ship._

A sudden ripple of terror ran through Kiley, turning the little
jewel-thief cold. He felt dwarfed by the sheer magnitude of Thaklaru's
world. He wondered where the alien was, what sort of creature he might
be.

_Your curiosity will soon be ended_, Thaklaru said. _When you have
brought the jewels out, I will appear._

Kiley shrugged and started to climb the catwalk that led into the ship.
There was little sense in trying to argue with Thaklaru's abilities;
if he didn't go willingly, the alien would only force him. He gathered
the jewels into a double handful and brought them back outside,
dropping them onto a bare patch of reddish-green soil. Returning, he
brought the rest of them out.

"Okay," he said. "They're all there."

_Good. They are lovely._

"Suppose you show up and let's divide these things," Kiley said. "I'm
tired of your mental voice--let's hear the real thing."

_Very well._

A clap of thunder seemed to split the sky--a deafening, booming noise
that made the ground quiver. Kiley cowered in fright as the sound was
repeated--and this time, he was able to detect words.

"I am Thaklaru!"

"Where are you?"

"Look upward!" the booming voice cried.

Hesitantly, Kiley turned his gaze upward--and gasped. The "cliff" he
had thought stood next to him was no cliff at all. It was a vast alien
creature, stony and terrifying, whose head vanished in the fuzzy clouds
far overhead.

Again came the booming noise: "I am Thaklaru!"

"I see why you needed an accomplice," Kiley said in a weak voice.
"Something--someone of your size--"

"Yes. I could never venture into anything as tiny as one of your
cities."

Kiley licked his lips nervously. "Well--here are the jewels.
Let's--let's divide them!"

"One bit of business first," the alien's thunderous boom came. "You
have served well--but you cannot live."

"_What?_"

"It is necessary, Kiley. There are ways of extracting information from
a man's subconscious--and I would not have my existence known."

Suddenly the sky was black. Kiley looked up and saw what could only be
a foot--a monstrous, horrible foot--blotting out the sunlight overhead.

"I warned you, Kiley--never trust an accomplice. And _I_ was your
accomplice."

The sky rang with the gigantic alien's cosmic laughter. Kiley covered
his ears to blot out the hideous sound. Tears of rage flooded his eyes.

"It's not fair! It's--"

"Sorry, Kiley."

_Like an ant_, the thief thought bitterly. _I'm dying like an ant._

And then the great foot came down.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NEVER TRUST A THIEF! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
