ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Martians and the Coys, by Mack Reynolds

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Martians and the Coys

Author: Mack Reynolds

Release Date: May 01, 2021 [eBook #65221]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MARTIANS AND THE COYS ***




                       THE MARTIANS AND THE COYS

                           By Mack Reynolds

               Lem didn't like guarding the still while
            Paw and the boys went feuding. He wanted to get
           a shot at some Martins too! Yup, he sure did....

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                               June 1951
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Maw Coy climbed the fence down at the end of the south pasture and
started up the side of the creek, carrying her bundle over her shoulder
and puffing slightly at her exertion.

She forded the creek there at the place where Hank's old coon dog
Jigger was killed by the boar three years ago come next hunting season.
Jumping from rock to rock across the creek made her puff even harder;
Maw Coy wasn't as young as she once was.

On the other side she rested a minute to light up her pipe and to look
carefully about before heading up the draw. She didn't really expect
to see any Martins around here, but you never knew. Besides, there
might've been a revenue agent. They were getting mighty thick and
mighty uppity these days. You'd think the government'd have more to do
than bother honest folks trying to make an honest living.

The pipe lit, Maw swung the bundle back over her shoulder and started
up the draw. Paw and the boys, she reckoned were probably hungry as a
passel of hound dogs by now. She'd have to hurry.

When she entered the far side of the clearing, she couldn't see any
signs of them so she yelled, "You Paw! You Hank and Zeke!" Maw Coy
liked to give the men folks warning before she came up on the still.
Hank, in particular, was mighty quick on the trigger sometimes.

But there wasn't any answer. She trudged across the clearing to where
the still was hidden in a cluster of pines. Nobody was there but Lem.

She let the bundle down and glowered at him. "Lem, you no-account, why
didn't you answer me when I hollered?"

He grinned at her vacuously, not bothering to get up from where he sat
whittling, his back to an old oak. "Huh?" he said. A thin trickle of
brown ran down from the side of his mouth and through the stubble on
his chin.

"I said, how come you didn't answer when I hollered?"

He said, "You called Paw and Hank and Zeke, you didn't holler for me.
What you got there, Maw, huh?" His watery eyes were fixed on the bundle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Maw Coy sighed deeply and sat down on a tree stump. "Now what you think
I got there, Lem? I been a bringing your vittles to you every day since
Paw and you boys started up this new still. Where's Paw and Zeke and
Hank?"

Lem scratched himself with the stick he'd been whittling on. "They
went off scoutin' around for the revenooers or maybe the Martins." He
let his mouth fall open and peered wistfully into the woods. He added,
"I wish I could shoot me a Martin, Maw. I wish I could. I sure wish I
could shoot me a Martin."

The idea excited him. He brought his hulking body to its feet and went
over to pick up an ancient shotgun from where it leaned against a mash
barrel.

Maw Coy was taking corn pone, some cold fried salt pork, and a quart of
black-strap molasses from her bundle and arranging it on the top of an
empty keg. "You mind yourself with that gun now, Lem. Mind how you shot
up your foot that time."

Lem didn't hear her, he was stroking the stock of the shotgun
absently. "I could do it easy," he muttered. "I could shoot me a Martin
easy. I sure could Maw. I'd show Hank and Zeke, I would."

"You forget about the Martins, son," Maw Coy said softly. "Yore my
simple son--there's at least one in every family, mostly more--and
it ain't fittin' that you get into fights. You got a strong back,
strongest in the hills, but yore too simple, Lem."

"I ain't as simple as Jim Martin, Maw," Lem protested.

"Son, they don't come no more simple than you," his mother told him
gently. "And mind that gun. You know how you bent the barrel of Zeke's
Winchester back double that time, absent-minded like."

He stroked the gun stock, patted it, half in anger, half in protest.
His lower lip hung down in a pout. "You stop talkin' thataway, Maw," he
growled, "or I'll larrup you one."

Maw Coy didn't answer. She reckoned she'd better set off into the woods
and see if she could locate the rest of the men folks, so they could
eat.

Lem said under his breath, "I could shoot me a Martin real easy, I
could."

       *       *       *       *       *

_To the Most High, the Glorious, the Omnipotent, Omnipresent, and
Omniscient, the Lord of the Seven, the Leader of the Chosen, Neo Geek
XXXVIII:_

In regard to: _Testing of special weapons designed to eliminate present
population of the third planet with the eventual view of colonizing._

From: _Seegeel Wan, Commander of Spacecruiser 12B44._

_Your Omnipotence_:

Upon the receipt of your orders, we proceeded to the planet in question
(known to its inhabitants as Earth, or Terra) first touching at its
satellite (Luna) in order to pick up the observation group which has
been studying the potential foe for several decals.

Commander of the observation group, Baren Darl, has enjoyed the
reputation of being our most outstanding authority on Earthlings. It
has been principally through his recommendations that the secret,
supplementary weapons, worked upon for the past decal, were devised.
Baren Darl has successfully deciphered the principal language of
Earth and though listening to their radio emanations has compiled a
formidable work on his findings. But of his abilities, more later.

It might be added here that Baren Darl and all his group were more than
ready to proceed to Earth and begin the slaughter of its inhabitants.
It seems that these investigators have for decals listened most
carefully to every radio emanation possible to pick up. This has
evidently led them to the edge of complete frenzy--especially those
who have been assigned the morning programs, sometimes known as "soap
operas" by the Earthlings.

Baren Darl inspected the newly created weapons with considerable care
and proclaimed them excellent for our purposes. In particular he was
impressed with the I.Q. Depressor; the deadly poison, _nark_; and the
lepbonic plague carrying fleas. He was convinced that these secret
weapons would give our forces that advantage we seek before launching
our all out attack upon Earth.

Acting on Darl's suggestions, we avoided the more heavily populated
areas of Earth and landed our Spacecruiser in a mountainous area of
the planet known as Kentucky, a sub-division of the United States of
America, one of the more advanced Earth nations.

Our plans did not work out exactly as expected.

       *       *       *       *       *

Keeping well in mind the need for secrecy, we made every attempt to
land the Spacecruiser without detection. We settled in a small valley
near a stream and immediately sent out scouts to determine if there was
any sign that our craft had been sighted in descent.

Evidently, the population of the vicinity was so small that our
plans were successful. Our patrols reported only one small group of
Earthlings in the immediate area.

Deciding to test the new weapons on this gathering, we disembarked a
force of a dozen warriors, all disguised as Earthlings and with myself
as commander and Baren Darl as our technical advisor.

"We must keep our senses alert for Sam Spade, Superman and the Lone
Ranger," Baren Darl said nervously, peering around among the strange
exotic trees and other vegetation that grows on Earth.

I was somewhat surprised at his tone and obvious unease.

"Who?" I asked. "What?"

"Three Terran warriors of amazing ability and viciousness," he told me.
"I have been gathering reports of their activities from the radio for
some time. They seem to have clairvoyant minds; one or the other of
them almost invariably appears on the scene of violence."

I said impatiently, "Without doubt, our weapons would mean the end of
these warriors."

I did not share his belief that any Earthling warriors might be our
equals or superiors, but to remain on the cautious side, I immediately
ordered that the Elect-no be switched on. This weapon, one of the
several designed for the Earth campaign, as your Omnipotence is
undoubtedly aware, is so constructed as to prevent the use of any
internal combustion engine within a dozen miles of the Elect-no. In
this case, no aircraft, nor landcraft, utilizing internal combustion,
could enter our zone.

Baren Darl seemed somewhat relieved at this precaution, but his
attitude to a certain extent began to affect the rest of us. To
prepare for any eventuality, I had the Fission-Suppressor activated.
This, of course, automatically made it impossible for nuclear fission
to take place within a hundred miles of our ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

That measure pleased Baren Darl exceedingly in view of the fact that
the Earth nations seemed to be spending practically all of their
military appropriations on their so-called A-Bombs and H-Bombs.
According to the radio emanations our Luna base had picked up, the
Earthlings were interested in little else in a military way, except
possibly bacteriological weapons, and, of course, we were prepared
to deal them a strong blow along that line with our lepbonic plague
spreading fleas.

At any rate, knowing that we had suppressed the use of their major
weapon, the fission bomb, and had prevented transportation from
entering the vicinity, we proceeded toward the clearing where the
Earthlings had gathered, determined to test the I.Q. Depressor, _nark_,
and the lepbonic plague fleas, for it was upon the success of these
weapons that our Earth campaign depended.

We proceeded with care toward the clearing on the edge of which our
scouts had detected the Earthlings, and carefully approached from
behind the one specimen we saw there. Evidently, the others had gone
off.

Baren Darl, the only member of our little group who was familiar with
the language, acted as spokesman, and we concealed for the moment at
least, the purpose of our "visit." The following conversation was
recorded by Baren Darl himself and later translated as literally as
possible into our own superior language.

[Illustration: Lem held his rifle ready as the stranger pointed the
funny box at him....]

Earthling: "Huh? What's that?"

Baren Darl: "Have no fear."

Earthling: "Revenooers! Paw! Hank!"

(The meaning of the word _revenooers_ was completely unknown to Baren
Darl but from the Earthling's tone of voice it is to be assumed that
the term is a derogatory one.)

Baren Darl: "We are not revenooers. We are friends."

Earthling: "Huh?"

Baren Darl: "We are not revenooers. We are friends."

Earthling (suspiciously): "Well, you can't have no free corn, if that's
what you're looking for. Can't buy none neither. Paw won't sell no raw
corn. Says corn ain't fitten to drink unless it's been aged a week."

(This conversation seemed to puzzle Baren Darl and I was beginning to
suspect already that his knowledge of the Earthlings was somewhat less
than he had led me to believe.)

Baren Darl: "Where are the others?"

Earthling: "Huh?"

(This continual inability on the Earthling's part to understand the
questions put to him by Baren Darl also caused me to wonder whether or
not the decals spent on Luna in observing Earth were quite as fruitful
as they might have been.)

Baren Darl: "Where are the others?"

Earthling: "Oh, you mean Maw and Paw and Hank and Zeke. They're off
looking for Martins."

(Your Omnipotence is of course aware that in the language of the
Earthlings our glorious planet is known as _Mars_, and we as
_Martians_, or, evidently, as this Earthling pronounced it, _Martins_.)

       *       *       *       *       *

This information was, as you can well imagine, startling, since we had
supposed that our landing had been made in the most complete secrecy.
What means they had utilized to discover us is unknown.

Baren Darl: "Ahhhhh. And, er ... what made them suspect there were
Martians in the vicinity?"

Earthling: "Huh?"

Baren Darl: "What made Maw and Paw and Hank and Zeke think there were
Martians around?"

Earthling: "Oh."

Baren Darl: "What made them think there were Martians about?"

Earthling: "Paw says he can smell him a Martin from most twenty miles
away. Paw's got a regular feelin' for Martins, like. Paw'd rather shoot
him a Martin than eat fried chicken. I wish I could shoot me a Martin,
I wish. Yup, I sure wish I could shoot me a Martin. I wish--"

(This sixth sense of some of the Earthlings had been unsuspected by
Baren Darl in spite of his decals of investigation. Evidently, the
Earthlings have an unusual ability to detect the presence of alien life
forms. Also surprising was the fact that the Earthlings were evidently
aware of our plans to conquer their planet and were already worked up
to a pitch of patriotism which made them extremely anxious to destroy
us.)

Baren Darl turned to me and explained that there were four more of the
Earthlings in the woods searching for us and that undoubtedly they
would soon return. He suggested that we immediately try some of our
weapons upon this specimen.

The plan seemed feasible enough so I ordered one of the warriors to
find a suitable liquid in which to place a portion of the poison _nark_.

Ultimate plans, as you are aware, had been to drop, by spacecraft,
small containers of _nark_ in the reservoirs, rivers and lakes of the
Earthlings. One drop was designated to be, as your Omnipotence knows,
sufficient to poison a reservoir capable of supplying the water needs
of a hundred thousand Earthlings.

Although water was not available, the warrior was soon able to find
what was obviously a container for some type of beverage. It was
nearly full of a colorless fluid.

The following conversation then took place between Baren Darl and the
Earthling:

Baren Darl: "What is this?"

Earthling: "Huh? Oh, that's _white mule_. Yup, sure is."

Baren Darl (puzzled): "I thought a mule was a four legged animal of
burden particularly noted for kicking."

Earthling (vaguely): "Paw's white mule's got lots of kick in it. Yup."

       *       *       *       *       *

Upon finding it was a beverage, as we had suspected, a small quantity
of _nark_ was quickly inserted.

Baren Darl: "Try a drink."

Earthling: "What say?"

Baren Darl: "Have a drink?"

Earthling: "Uhhhhh. Maybe I will, but don't tell Paw. Paw says I'm
simple enough without no white mule."

(Here he took a long draught without seeming effect, although we were
expecting him to fall dead at our feet. We stood there staring at him,
unbelievingly.)

Earthling: "That tasted mighty good. Got more of a kick than usual.
Yup, sure did. Tasted like maybe somebody put in a wallop of
turpentine."

He seemed perfectly at ease. I turned to Baren Darl and snapped, "The
type of poison you recommended seems less than effective."

Baren Darl was obviously shocked. "It is inconceivable," he said.
"Possibly the fluid in which we dissolved the _nark_ acted as an
antidote."

I turned my back on him angrily. "I begin to wonder about the effect of
your other weapons!"

He waved to one of the warriors who had been burdened with the I.Q.
Depressor. "We'll try this immediately," he said, anxiety in his tone.

While the machine was being readied, Baren Darl explained its workings
to me in some detail. Meanwhile, the Earthling continued to sip at
the jug which supposedly contained sufficient poison to eliminate an
average large Terran city.

"As you know," Baren Darl told me, "the mind, whether of Earthlings or
Martian type, is capable of being either stimulated or depressed. For
hundreds of decals our race has possessed chemicals capable of such
depression or stimulation. However, to my knowledge, this device is the
only one yet developed which can suppress the intelligence quotient of
anyone within an area of many square miles.

"The plan for utilizing it is a simple but effective one. When we
confront a body of Earthling soldiery, our men need only to turn on the
I.Q. Depressor to turn the enemy into brainless idiots. Their defeat
would then obviously be quite simple."

"Very well," I told him stiffly, "let us proceed to try it on this
Earthling."

       *       *       *       *       *

The device seemed quite elementary in construction. Baren Darl
activated it by the simple flicking of a switch. We ourselves, of
course, were immune to its workings since it was tuned only to the
Earth type brain.

"It is now in operation?" I asked Baren Darl.

"Definitely. Watch the Earthling."

"I am watching."

The supposed top authority on Earth and Earthlings approached the
specimen and eyed him carefully. The following conversation ensued:

Baren Darl: "How do you feel?"

Earthling: "Huh?"

(Baren Darl seemed pleased at this response, and, indeed, it would seem
that the subject was on the verge of idiocy.)

Baren Darl: "How do you feel?"

Earthling: "I guess I feel fine. Yup, yup. Feel fine.--How'd you feel,
stranger?"

Baren Darl (scowling): "Does your head feel somewhat different? Does
your mind seem more sluggish?"

Earthling: "Huh?"

Baren Darl: "Does your thinking seem weaker?"

Earthling: "Nope. Can't say it does, stranger. Fact is, it'd be purdy
hard to make my thinking much weaker. Yup, sure would."

Baren Darl stared at him for a long period, unbelievingly. Obviously,
the I.Q. Depressor had been worthless as far as undermining the
earthling's intelligence is concerned.

Finally this alleged authority on Earthlings and upon Earth affairs
flashed a look of despair at me, and at the others of us who stood
around him.

"The fleas," he blurted finally, "the lepbonic plague fleas. This
weapon alone might well destroy the whole population of earth. Bring
the fleas."

I said coldly, "We shall see, Baren Darl." Then to one of the warriors,
"Bring the fleas that carry this so _deadly_--so Baren Darl tells
us--lepbonic plague."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Earthling was ignoring us now and had gone back to taking an
occasional drink from his jug. Our warrior approached carefully from
behind him and dropped a half dozen of the supposedly deadly insects
upon the Earthling's back.

We then stood back and watched cautiously. According to Baren Darl, the
fast spreading disease should take effect almost immediately.

The Earthling sat there, the I.Q. Depressor still tuned on but
obviously unable to lower his intelligence an iota. He continued to
sip from the jug of white mule, which had enough _nark_ in it to kill
thousands. Occasionally, he scratched himself.

"I guess I'll take me a nap," he said thickly, his words slurred. He
scratched himself once again, yawned deeply, and slumped against the
tree, obviously in sleep.

Baren Darl looked at me triumphantly. "The reaction is somewhat
different than we'd expected, but obviously the fleas have given him
lepbonic plague. This weapon at least is as successful as we had--"

I peered down at the Earthling suspiciously. His clothes were
disarrayed and torn. I pointed at a speck on his uncouthly hairy chest.

"And what is that?" I snapped at Baren Darl.

He bent down to see what I indicated.

"It seems to be one of the fleas," he told me.

"Then what is it doing on its back with its feet up in the air?"

"It seems indisposed."

"It seems _dead_ you numbskull!" I roared at him. "After biting this
Earthling your fleas have died!"

In a high rage, I strode up and down the clearing trying to coordinate
my thoughts to the point where I could make an intelligent decision on
this situation. Obviously, a crisis was at hand. Using these weapons
devised by our scientists, after detailed instructions on their
construction by Baren Darl and his group of efficient "experts," would
obviously be suicidal. They were completely worthless.

I came to a snap conclusion. Our plan must be to reveal ourselves to
the Earthlings as Martians and pretend to come bearing them only good
will and desire for peace and commerce. A few months on their planet,
closely--but unbeknown to them--studying their life form, should give
us ample opportunity to plan more effective weapons against them.

This then was my decision.

I snapped to Baren Darl. "Awaken the Earthman; tell him that we are
Martians and that we seek peace with the inhabitants of Earth."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was some difficulty in the awakening, but finally Baren Darl
succeeded. The Earthling shook his head groggily and scowled at my
interpreter. The following conversation ensued:

Baren Darl: "Awaken. We have a message of great importance for you."

Earthling: "Huh?"

Baren Darl: "We have a message for you."

Earthling (Rolling over on his other side): "Oh."

Baren Darl said impressively: "In the name of the Most High, the
Glorious, the Omnipotent, Omnipresent, and Omniscient, the Lord of
the Seven, the Leader of the Chosen, Neo Geek XXXVIII; we bring you
greetings from the Martians."

Earthling: "Huh?"

Baren Darl: "We Martians offer you the friendship and the good will of
a people that--"

Earthling: "Martins! Are you'uns Martins?"

Baren Darl: "That is correct. We Martians come with the greetings and--"

At this point, your Omnipotence, my account must of necessity be
somewhat vague, for even after we had made good our escape back to the
spacecruiser, bearing our more serious casualties with us, we were
unable to agree among ourselves on just what had happened.

Baren Darl, who is now under arrest and in the darkest recess of the
Spacecruiser 12B44 laden down with chains, is of the opinion that the
Earthling was none other than either Superman or the Lone Ranger in
disguise. He contends that both of these earthling warriors are prone
to adopt disguises in this manner, revealing themselves only at the
last moment to their enemies.

Suffice to say, however, that we were all successful in making good our
retreat to the spacecruiser although all of our equipment and supplies
were destroyed in the melee. Upon regaining the spacecraft we blasted
off hurriedly, to return to our own sacred planet.

I recommend, your Omnipotence, that the plans to subjugate the planet
Earth be indefinitely postponed in view of the fact that our specially
designed weapons proved worthless and in particular view of the
abilities of Earthling warriors.

I further recommend that the unspeakable Baren Darl, who obviously
frittered away his time during the decals spent on Luna supposedly
studying the Earthlings, be sent to the Nairebis Salt Mines.

                                                            Obediently,
                                                            Seegeel Wan
                                                              Commander
                                                    Spacecruiser 12B44.

       *       *       *       *       *

Maw and Paw Coy and Hank and Zeke came back into the clearing wearily.
The boys had done a lot of tramping and were hungry for their vittles,
and Maw was feeling bodacious about their taking off to go hunting for
Martins. Paw had told her to shut up two or three times but it hadn't
been much use.

Lem was sitting on an upended mash barrel loading his old shotgun and
grinning vacuously. He seemed unaware of the fact that the stock of the
gun was a splintered ruin.

"Guess what, Paw," he yelled. "I got me a Martin. I got me a whole
passel of Martins, Paw, I sure did. Yup, I--"

Paw Coy grunted, and started poking around in the vittles Maw had
brought up from the cabin.

The boys leaned their rifles up against the oak and each picked up a
handy fruit jar of corn squeezins.

Hank said nastily, "Sure you got a whole passel of Martins, Lem. In
yore sleep, you got a passel of Martins."

Lem said belligerently, "Don't you go a talkin' thataway Hank, or
I'll ... I'll throw you up into the tree the way I did that time you
hit me with the ax. I did so get me some Martins. I was a sittin' here
when a whole passel come outen the woods. Didn't know they was Martins
at first. Then--"

Maw Coy handed him a chunk of corn pone. "Now you be quiet, Lem, and
eat your vittles. Sure you got yourself a Martin, Lem."

A thin trickle of brown ran down from the side of Lem's mouth. He spit
on the ground before him, with an air of happy belligerence.

"I sure did, Maw. I sure got me a passel of Martins. Yup, I sure did."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MARTIANS AND THE COYS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
