ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of We're Off to Mars!, by Carlton Furth

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: We're Off to Mars!

Author: Carlton Furth

Release Date: May 04, 2021 [eBook #65254]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WE'RE OFF TO MARS! ***




                          WE'RE OFF TO MARS!

                           By Carlton Furth

             The strange little robot machine would create
          anything Joe Linger wanted. The catch was, that he
          was being told what to create--and didn't know it!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                            September 1951
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Joe Linger raised up on one elbow and stared at the door, frowning.
"Who is it?" he called out.

A muffled voice answered from beyond the cracked, peeling wood.
"Package for Mr. Joseph Linger!"

"Just a minute!" Joe laid his magazine aside, rolled to the edge of the
bed, and pulled on his trousers. Rising, he poked his feet into frayed
slippers and, walking to the door, swung it open.

"Sign here, please!" A little, old man stood in the doorway. He held a
large square package under one arm and extended the other, holding out
a clipboard and pencil to Joe. He had a thatch of white hair and a red,
wrinkled face with blue eyes and a scowl. He wore a loose, blue uniform
with a cloth badge on his shallow chest, reading: _Time Deliveries,
Inc._

Joe took the clipboard and pencil, scrawled his name and frowned with
sudden surprise.

The name on the clipboard list above his was: _Pontius Pilate, Rome, 12
A.D._

And when he looked up at the scowling little man who was now holding
the package out to him and extending a hand to receive back his
clipboard and pencil, Joe saw that he was holding the package out with
two right arms and reaching for the clipboard with two left arms!

Joe fell back a step. "Who in blazes _are_ you?"

"Time Deliveries, Incorporated," the little man chanted. "We guarantee
deliveries to anyone, anywhere, any time. Here's your package, Mr.
Linger."

"B-but," Joe stammered, "where'd you _come_ from?"

The little man lifted his lower left hand and fingered his pointed
chin. A gleam entered his blue eyes. "Originally, I came from Ursula
Major," he said. "That's 3428 A.D., by the present calendar. Now, do
you accept this package or--"

"I--I accept!" Joe blurted, grabbing for the package. In his haste, he
dropped the clipboard and pencil, but four hands deftly snatched them
up before they hit the floor.

"Very well," said the little man. "Good day, Mr. Linger!" He stepped
back into the hallway and pulled the door shut.

Joe stood frozen with the large square package clutched to his chest.
Then he lunged forward, wrenched at the doorknob, jerked the door open,
and leaped out into the hall. "Hey-y-y-y!" his shout wavered off into
weak dismay.

The hallway was empty.

       *       *       *       *       *

He reentered his room, closed and locked the door carefully, and walked
over to his bed. His dazed eyes wandered to the window, to the dirty
brick wall of the apartment house next door, to the shaft of blazing
afternoon sunlight that struck the grimy windowpane. In broad daylight!
_It had happened in broad daylight!_

He sat on the bed, staring at the package in his lap. It was a light,
bulky package, wrapped in some silvery gray substance that felt colder
and smoother than rubber--more like metal. On one side of the package
was an inscription in large, bold script:

                         To: Mr. Joseph Linger
                   June 27th, 1951, Dark Ages Earth
                   24 Kens Street, Jersey City, N.J.
                     United States, North America

He wondered if it was a gag. But the little old man with four arms
hadn't been a gag!

Finally, Joe opened the package. He merely inserted his thumb into a
conspicuous slot at the corner and pushed it around the top edges. The
silver-gray material parted easily and the lid came off the package. As
it fell aside, he saw that the interior was filled with what resembled
a rubber sponge soaked in black lacquer. It was dry, springy, and
blackly glistening. He clutched at it and pulled it out.

Only a top layer came out. Beneath that, surrounded with layers of the
cushioning substance, was--_something_--and a folded sheet of glossy,
white paper.

Joe took out the paper and read it.

    Mr. Joseph Linger
    June 27th, 1951, U.S.A.
    Dark Ages Earth

    _Dear Mr. Linger_:

    _We have chosen you to assist us in an important research project,
    because our investigation has found you to be a science fiction
    enthusiast. We believe you have a better chance of comprehending
    the scope of our research than would most people of your time._

    _As you may have suspected, time involves a countless number of
    varying probability universes, all coexisting in the same time
    dimension. It is much like a giant tree, with branches sprouting
    from the root--the very beginning of time--and subsequent branches
    sprouting from others; and so, on and on._

    _Our research teams have travelled successfully into the past.
    However, in attempting to return, they have been faced with
    innumerable branches in time-probability, with no way of
    determining which branch led to our universe!_

    _Only a few have succeeded in returning--by recording the complete
    facts of history as they went into the past, then stopping and
    checking those facts every few years on their return. When the
    facts didn't check, they knew they were off on another branch
    leading to another universe; they would back-track, try again,
    and check until they were on the right branch._

    _Even so, many members of our research teams died before they could
    return--and our average life-span is five thousand years! You may
    understand, then, that this is an intolerable situation that needs
    correcting._

    _The purpose of this project is to determine the amount of
    probability stress which causes a branch in time, this allowing us
    to check back and spot every moment that such branches occur! With
    that, we can compute the moments of stress and the number of
    branches in all time-probability! Consequently, our research teams
    may then travel safely to any time-era, in any probability
    universe, with a yard-stick which can always lead them back to our
    own universe._

    _And so, in order to measure the probability stress which causes
    time-branching, we have decided to introduce such stress ourselves.
    Enclosed is a product of our civilization. You would probably call
    it a robot. It should never have existed in your time; therefore,
    it will induce considerable stress upon probability. A branch in
    time should result, if not when the robot arrives, certainly when
    you make use of it. That, of course, is where you come in._

    _We have sent this robot because it will repay you many times over
    for your assistance in our project. We have scanners focused on
    your time, ready to record the branching and probability stress
    when it occurs. We ask only your cooperation. You may keep the
    robot, of course._

    _It will fashion any object you desire from surrounding
    matter--solid objects, air molecules, anything within a thousand
    yards of it--if you but type out the name and description of the
    desired object on its keyboard. Thus, if you wish an automobile,
    take the robot to a deserted road and type on its keyboard the
    word, "automobile." By influencing the sub-atomic forces of the
    dirt in the road, the empty air over the road, perhaps the grass
    along the side of the road, the robot will make you an automobile._

    _You may desire objects which do not exist in your time. If you
    type the word, spaceship, for example, be sure to include a
    description of its performance, range, amount of supplies,
    etc.--and be on a large, open field when you do so._

    _In conclusion, it might be wise to remember that illegal
    possession of wealth in your time is punishable by law. I trust,
    for your own sake, you will exercise the utmost discretion._

                                                             Sincerely,
                                                         Myytnor Skurle
                                           Director, Historial Research
                                          Galactic Renaissance, Sol III

       *       *       *       *       *

Joe put the letter carefully on the bed beside him and reached into the
box for the robot. He lifted it out. It was a shimmering, silver-gray
globe, lighter than aluminum, with one side of it flattened to
accommodate a keyboard. It was about the size of a bowling ball, he
guessed. The keyboard had small push-buttons, lettered exactly like a
typewriter, with a small glass lens above it. He struck the "J" key and
a tiny, glowing "J" appeared in the center of the lens. He punched the
tab marked "clear" at the top of the keyboard, and the "J" vanished.

His mind reeled at the implications of what he had read. Anything
he wanted was his, merely by typing its name on this keyboard! Even
objects he only imagined, which didn't even exist--spaceships,
antigravity devices, _anything_....

His thoughts were confused. What did he want? Money? But what good was
money when he wouldn't have to buy anything? What did he want?

He felt a sudden, overwhelming desire to confide in someone--to ask
someone--

He rested the globe in his lap, clutching it with moist, slippery
palms. His vision was blurred, his hands fumbling, as he pecked at the
keyboard:

                               TELEPHONE

There was a swirling glow of blue radiance, a faintly audible click
from within the globe--then a loud, sharp _crack_ and the smell of
ozone!

A telephone rested on the bed beside him! Its black cord snaked across
the floor to the baseboard beside the chipped dresser.

Joe relaxed with a shuddering sigh. He mopped at the sweat on his
forehead with a wet palm--he had a telephone! The robot worked!

But did the telephone work? He reached over, lifted the receiver, and
placed it to his ear. The dial-tone was unmistakable.

He replaced the receiver on its cradle and sat staring at the 'phone.
Now that he had it, who would he call?

What did he _really_ want?

He looked down at the robot in his lap and swallowed hesitantly. He
had requested a telephone, so he got a telephone. But that wasn't what
he wanted. He knew--the realization grew in his mind--what he really
wanted, what any young guy would want, given the opportunity!

Feverishly, he clutched the robot in his lap and with a numb index
finger, began pecking at the keyboard. He finished the phrase--then,
hastily and with sudden apprehension, added a comma. His brow furrowed
with intense concentration for a moment, then he resumed typing.

When he finished, the small, glowing letters beneath the lens read:

                           A BEAUTIFUL GIRL,
                           WHOM I CAN TRUST.

There was the swirling blue radiance, as before. He heard the faintly
audible click from within the globe. His eyes shot around the room,
expectantly. A vision flashed into his mind--a vision of the girl who
would appear--young, with soft, dark hair tumbling to her shoulders,
delicate features and a slender, lovely figure. A neat, immaculate suit
would enhance her shapely curves. He waited....

Nothing happened. No sharp crack, no smell of ozone. The robot had
failed!

Joe sighed dismally. Resignedly, he steadied the robot in his lap and
reached his thumb for the "clear" button. Then he saw it.

The tiny, glowing letters beneath the lens were different! The words
he'd typed out were no longer there!

In their stead, he read:

                           DELAWARE 6-2717,
                           ASK FOR BARBARA!

       *       *       *       *       *

He dialed the number.

"Hello?" a soft, feminine voice answered.

"Is this Barbara?" he asked.

"Yes. Who're you?"

"Joe Linger," he said. "Are you beautiful?"

"Why--I suppose so," came the modest answer. "What--"

"Can I trust you?" Joe persisted.

"Well, really!" she exclaimed. "Mr. Linger, I'm afraid I don't know
you--"

Joe groaned inwardly. Of course they were strangers! The robot couldn't
help that!

"Just--just what is it you want?" the girl's voice stammered from the
receiver.

"Nothing," Joe replied wearily. "Nothing, now. Maybe I'll call you
back."

He hung up and sat staring into space.

Anything he wanted--anything! Money? What use was money when he didn't
have to buy anything? Food? What about food? Meat and vegetables
weren't inanimate objects, either.

He set the bright globe in his lap and placed his fingertips on its
keyboard. Swiftly, he typed: SIRLOIN STEAK SMOTHERED IN ONIONS, GRAVY,
MASHED POTATOES, ASPARAGUS, TOAST, COFFEE, APPLE PIE A LA MODE.

There came the shimmering blue radiance, the faint click, the sharp
crack, and the smell of ozone.

Across the room, there was a battered writing table with a glass and a
chipped china pitcher half-filled with stale water. Glass and pitcher
vanished; instead, there sat the complete dinner, not only as he had
ordered it but cooked to perfection. Complete with dishes, silverware,
salt-and-pepper shakers, coffee cream, sugar bowl--everything.

After he had eaten, Joe settled back and surveyed the dishes. How to
get them washed? Furthermore, how to explain to Mrs. Haggerty, the
landlady, that he had not been cooking in his room and what happened to
her pitcher and glass?

He picked up the robot again and typed out: ONE PITCHER, ONE GLASS,
BELONGING TO MRS. HAGGERTY.

With swirling blue radiance, faint click, sharp crack, and smell of
ozone, the battered writing table resumed its former appearance.

Then he had his shoes changed into a cat. Afterwards, he had the cat
changed back into new shoes. His two suits, brought out of the musty
closet, were changed to brilliant, cloth-of-gold togas: then, because
togas were hardly practical, he changed them back into new, expensive
suits. With that beginning, he proceeded to rejuvenate his entire
wardrobe. He began adding to it, acquiring some much-needed extra linen
and some much-desired sportsclothes, but the process had to be reversed
when he noticed the wallpaper was disappearing from the walls, the
closet was minus its door, and the air in the room was beginning to
reek with ozone. Mrs. Haggerty would never stand for that!

And by sheer accident, he learned how to control the robot's influence
on surrounding matter. When he had concluded that shoes were a more
practical possession than a cat, he had accidentally typed the phrase:
SHOES FROM THE CAT.

And--with the glow, click, crack, and ozone smell--the cat had become a
new pair of shoes. If he hadn't mentioned the cat, the robot might have
jerked out one of the dresser drawers and made it into a pair of new
shoes....

He sat at the writing table, staring at the metal globe set before him.
_It's like the Midas touch_, he mused reflectively. Old King Midas,
sitting in his treasure rooms, watching gold coins dribble through his
fingers; the old King had thought it would be wonderful if he could
turn everything he touched into gold--until he could, and finally
touched his young daughter--

       *       *       *       *       *

Joe pushed back his chair, and walked over to the bed. He sat down and
lifted the telephone receiver. Swiftly, he dialed the Delaware number.

"Hello?" It was the soft, feminine voice again.

"Barbara?" His tone was uncertain.

"Yes. Who's this?"

"Joe Linger," he said. "Barbara, I know you've never met me, but
I don't know anyone else who can help me. I've got to talk to
someone--maybe if I could talk to you, I'd be able to work things out?
Could--could I come over to see you?"

"Well-l-l-l," she replied doubtfully, "I really don't--"

"Is someone else there?" he asked anxiously. "Someone else in the
family?"

"Do you want to speak to father?"

"Yes--please!"

"Just a minute--"

As he waited, Joe laid down the receiver and returned to the table for
the robot. He brought it back to the bed, sat down, placed it in his
lap, and swiftly typed out: BARBARA'S ADDRESS.

A gruff voice rattled faintly from the receiver. "Hello? Hello, who's
this?"

There was a swirling blue glow and a click. Beneath the lens, at the
top of the keyboard, was Barbara's address.

Joe picked up the receiver. "My name is Joe Linger," he said. "Sir,
I don't know your name, but I thought I ought to see you. It's about
something your daughter has become involved in without her knowledge. I
thought you ought to know--"

"What?" The voice spoke sharply. "What're you talking about?"

"I'd rather not discuss it over the 'phone," Joe replied nervously.
"Could I come over to see you, personally?"

"Why--um, ah--why, yes!" A hard edge crept into the voice. "Perhaps
you'd _better_!"

Joe felt a wave of relief. "I'll be there in fifteen minutes," he
promised.

He was five minutes early. He parked the sleek, yellow convertible in
the driveway and climbed out. He looked dapper and well-groomed in
his dark, expensive suit as he went up the front steps and rang the
doorbell. The round, gleaming globe of the robot was tucked under his
arm.

The door was opened by a tall, stocky man with iron-gray hair. He raked
Joe with a sharp, piercing gaze. "You're Mr. Linger?"

Joe nodded. "That's right. But I don't know your name."

"James Bowen," the man said stiffly. "Come in, Mr. Linger."

Joe hesitated, shook his head. "First, Mr. Bowen, I want to explain,"
he said. "I'm a stranger--your daughter has never met me--and yet, I
was able to get her first name and telephone number. I thought you
might like to know how I did that."

Bowen scowled darkly. "Well, please come in, Mr. Linger," he insisted
stiffly. "We'll sit down and discuss the matter--"

"No," Joe refused, shaking his head again. "I want to show you
something, first. I want you to see exactly what this is all about--"
He cradled the robot in his arm and began typing on its keyboard,
turning to face the driveway as he did so.

Bowen stepped out the door and stared at Joe's yellow convertible. Then
he jerked back, startled.

There was a swirling blue glow from the bright globe, a faint click.
And then--

_Crack!_

       *       *       *       *       *

Bowen grabbed at the door, his eyes bulging as he stared out at the
driveway. Air currents swirled and eddied across the front lawn. The
convertible had vanished.

"This globe is a robot mechanism," Joe said hastily. "It transmuted the
metal atoms of that car into molecules of air. It can change any matter
into any shape, form, or object desired! Watch!" Swiftly, he began
typing again.

The swirling glow and sound effects were repeated.

And in the driveway, poised gracefully on its tricycle landing gear,
was a small, gleaming light plane!

"I made that out of air molecules, too," Joe explained. "That is, the
robot made it."

"Get--get that airplane off my driveway!" Bowen stammered hoarsely.
"The neighbors will--"

Joe typed busily. The glow and noise repeated. The plane disappeared.

"Now you've seen it," Joe said quietly, gazing up at the tall, dazed
man. "This is what I want to talk to you about. I--I need help, Mr.
Bowen--"

"Come in," Bowen said weakly. "Come in--but turn that god-forsaken
thing off!" He turned and walked back into the house. "Atomic bombs,
hydrogen bombs--and now, _this_! And I'd always thought they'd have
rocket ships first--"

Joe followed him in through a short foyer to a small, comfortable
living room. Then, in the living room doorway, he stopped. He felt the
breath go out of him in a long sigh, and an excited fluttering in his
chest.

Barbara Bowen stood across the room, beside the front window. She had
heard the noises, had seen what happened. She was pale and frightened.
And she was beautiful. Soft, dark hair framed a peach oval of a face
with large gray eyes, short nose, and perfect lips. A soft blue
housecoat draped over a smoothly curved, long-limbed figure.

Bowen had crossed the room and settled into a comfortable chair, taking
out his pipe and tobacco pouch. "Sit down, Mr. Linger," he offered,
with a gesture to a nearby chair. "This is my daughter, Barbara."

"Hello," Barbara said simply. Her voice was a soft, husky sound.

Joe merely swallowed and nodded, then crossed hurriedly to the
proffered chair. Barbara sat down on the couch.

Then, haltingly at first, but with a constantly growing familiarity,
Joe told them everything that had happened. He took the letter from
Myytnor Skurle out of his pocket and showed it to them.

For several minutes after he finished, Mr. Bowen sat smoking his pipe
and staring into space.

"Have you tried making money with it, Mr. Linger?" he asked, pensively.

"No," Joe admitted. "There doesn't seem to be any need for me to have
money."

Bowen rose with sudden decision and crossed to a low writing desk. He
got a piece of paper and, after some searching, a small magnifying
glass. Then he returned and laid the paper on the small coffee table.
"There," he said. "Change that into some five-dollar bills."

Joe stared at the paper, frowning, then cradled the bright globe in his
lap, and began typing. The usual effects followed.

The paper changed into four five-dollar bills.

Bowen picked them up and returned to the writing desk. He took out
his wallet, extracted a five-dollar bill, and sat down. Carefully, he
examined the robot's bills against his own.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minutes dragged past. Joe licked his lips nervously, noticed that
Barbara was doing the same thing, and they stared at each other. Then
Barbara smiled, and he smiled, and--

"Mr. Linger," Bowen spoke sharply, "I want you to do something
else--no, wait!" He rose and walked back to them. "Mr. Linger, let me
try that robot thing!"

Joe glanced at Barbara, then mutely handed the globe to Bowen.

"Now," Bowen said, turning, "Barbara, get off the couch, will you?"

"Yes, father!" Barbara rose hurriedly.

"Um," said Mr. Bowen. He cradled the globe on his arm and pecked at the
keyboard.

There was the swirling blue glow, the faint click--and a loud _crack_
that rattled the windows. The air swirled about the room, reeking with
ozone--

And where the couch had been was now an ugly, anti-tank cannon,
squatting heavily on its rubber tires.

"Holy cow!" Joe exclaimed, jumping to his feet.

"Uh _huh_!" Bowen grunted, satisfied. He handed back the robot. "Now,
if you please, Mr. Linger--give us back our couch! Can you?"

"Why--why, yes--" Joe stammered. He took the robot and changed Bowen's
cannon back into the couch it had been.

"Uh _huh_!" Bowen grunted again. He settled into his chair and resumed
smoking his pipe, calmly.

Joe returned to his seat, frowning perplexedly. Barbara moved back
toward the couch--then hesitated, staring at it uncertainly, and moved
over toward Joe's chair. Almost without thinking, she perched herself
on the arm of his chair. Joe slipped his arm around her hips to steady
her, and neither of them seemed to notice their nearness. They sat
staring at her father.

Bowen stared into space, nodded, and grunted a few times. Finally, he
cleared his throat and began speaking.

"Mr. Linger, the bills that robot made are perfect. You couldn't
spot one of 'em for a counterfeit in a million years! And we've just
discovered that not only will the robot make weapons, but anyone
can work it--not just you! That puts a pretty serious light on the
business. I'm thoroughly convinced, young man, that with that robot of
yours, any man could become the ruler of the world!"

Joe gasped faintly. "That--that hadn't occurred to me!" he stammered
weakly.

Bowen smiled at him with warm friendliness. "I didn't think it had," he
said quietly. "But I'm afraid we're going to have to face facts. Joe,
your life isn't going to be worth a plugged nickel if this ever gets
out. Why, the moment you handed me that robot, I could've committed the
perfect murder--by _changing you into a statue_!"

Joe shook his head. "The robot can't influence animate objects," he
protested.

"Didn't you make a cat?" Bowen asked sharply.

Joe gulped nervously. _Yes, he had!_ And he'd changed the cat back into
new shoes--

"You mustn't deny the danger for a minute, Joe," Bowen went on,
gravely. "If ever the wrong people hear about that robot and get their
hands on it, you're as good as dead! And the rest of the world will
shortly be under the killer's thumb--"

"Father--" Barbara blurted impulsively. "Father, can't we--help him,
somehow?"

Bowen raised his brows and grinned at his daughter. "Maybe for your
sake, we'd better!" he exclaimed, chuckling.

Barbara fidgeted with embarrassment.

"I've been wondering about the people who sent the robot to you," Bowen
resumed seriously. "But it seems that they weren't interested so much
in what the robot might do to our world as they were in getting their
experiment done. So this seems to be left entirely in your hands,
Joe." He glanced up, his gray eyes boring into Joe's face. "Do you
want to make your own decision about it, or do you want us to make a
suggestion?"

Joe ran his fingers through his hair, nervously. "I'd--I'd appreciate
anything you say, Mr. Bowen! Anything!"

But in the back of his mind--even as Bowen began speaking again--Joe
felt the beginnings of an idea, a decision that formed and grew and
flooded into his whole being with the exhilaration of a drug! Even as
Bowen began speaking, Joe knew what he was going to do--what he _had_
to do--

       *       *       *       *       *

The yellow convertible swung up over a shoulder and down the winding
dirt road into a narrow valley. Ahead lay a small lake.

"Your summer cabin's on the south shore, you say?" Joe asked, tooling
the big car down into the cool, tree-shaded lowland.

Bowen nodded, beside him. "I still think you ought to let me put my
oxygen torch to that thing."

Joe grinned and slowed the car, whipping it off the road into a small
clearing. A small, weatherbeaten cabin stood back among the pines.
Beyond the clearing was the sandy shore and the lake.

"There's our cabin," Barbara acknowledged, as Joe headed the car toward
it. He parked under the trees and they got out. He carried the bright
globe under his arm.

"Well," Bowen said, facing him, "We're here, now. What is it you plan
to do, Joe?"

Joe nodded toward the clearing. "I think I'd better do it out there,"
he said.

"It's wonderful up here on weekends," Barbara remarked, matching stride
with them as they started toward the clearing. She was wearing brief
shorts and a sweater, with a bright kerchief tied around her head.
"There's swimming and fishing and no one to bother us. Father's always
wished he could build a home up here--"

Joe stopped, turning to her father. "Have you?"

Bowen nodded, frowning. "Always wanted a quiet, little place for the
day I retire--"

"Just a minute, then!" Joe faced back toward the cabin and steadied the
robot. Deftly, he began typing: SMALL HOUSE FROM CABIN FOR MR. BOWEN,
ALL CONVENIENCES, FURNISHED.

There was the blue glow and faint click from the globe--then, a
thunderous crash from the trees! A strong gust of wind whipped waves
across the mirror-surface of the lake.

It was a small, white stucco house, with a low, rock wall extending
around a garden in front. Bright flowers bloomed in the garden, vines
climbed the trellises at the little windows. The roof was bright red
tile. Bowen stared back at it, his face tight, his gray eyes misting.

"There," Joe said kindly. "That should fix you up."

"I--I didn't ask for it!" Bowen protested stubbornly. "I didn't earn
it!"

"Oh, but you will!" Joe grinned brightly. "You're going to earn it by
not telling anyone about what I'm going to do out here!" Chuckling
softly, he turned and trudged on out toward the clearing.

Barbara caught up with him and tugged at his arm. "Joe," she pleaded.
"Please, Joe! Don't do anything you'll be sorry for--"

Then they stopped at the clearing's edge. Joe cradled the robot on
his arm, touched his fingers to the keyboard--and paused, silent for
a moment. "I'll never be sorry for doing this!" he said, finally, and
began typing.

       *       *       *       *       *

One minute, there was the small clearing, green grass waving gently in
the warm afternoon sunshine. Then the very heavens seemed to split open
and a giant thunderbolt came hurtling into the ground. The concussion
almost knocked them off their feet.

And the next minute--

It was a long, silvery, torpedo-shaped hull, completely filling the
small clearing. Rocket tubes jutted from its tapering tail; narrow fins
creased its smooth flanks. A round airlock door stood open, waiting.

[Illustration: Joe raised the strange robot globe and depressed the
keys. Out on the plain a space ship came into being.]

"A--A _rocket ship_!" Bowen gasped.

"More than that!" Joe was grinning as he moved out toward the open
airlock. "She's equipped with water and air purifying devices and
food synthesis tanks that'll supply one man as long as ten years! She
has antigravity equipment that can lift her right off the Earth--and
a rocket drive that'll accelerate to a velocity of two hundred and
seventy-eight miles per second! That's roughly a million miles an hour!
That means I can reach Mars' orbit in just over thirty hours!"

"But--but what're you going to _do_ with it?" Barbara stammered.

"Do?" Joe leaped into the airlock, his robot clutched under his arm,
and faced them with a laugh. "I'm going to the only place I'll be safe,
Barbara! And I'll find out who built the canals on Mars! And what
mysteries lie below the cloud-blanket of Venus! And whether any of the
moons of Jupiter are inhabitable--"

"Y-you mean," Bowen sputtered, "you're _going into space_?"

Barbara shook her head. "But--not _alone_!"

A shadow flicked across Joe's young features. Then he grinned easily.
"Why not? I'm no longer safe among men--"

"But you _can't_ go alone!" she stormed. "You--Father! _I'm going with
him!_"

"Barbara!" Bowen shouted. "What on earth--"

"Not on earth!" she cried, leaping forward. She landed in the narrow
airlock, thrusting Joe back into its metal confines. She whirled back
to her father, grabbing the door's levers to steady herself. "Not
for long!" she added breathlessly. "Don't you see, father? He has to
go--but he _can't go alone_! Someone has to be with him, to take care
of him, to see that he eats his meals and--and I'm going with him!
Goodbye, father! We'll--we'll be back!"

And tugging, panting, she swung the heavy door closed. It swung flush
into the smooth, metal hull.

James Bowen stood transfixed, on the edge of the clearing. Behind him
was the small, white house with the red roof and the little garden
in front, as he watched the sleek, torpedo-shaped spaceship rise
effortlessly from the ground and go skimming across the lake, climbing
higher and higher until it dwindled to a silvery speck in the clear
blue sky and vanished.

Then Bowen's face suddenly took on a new cast. There was a grim,
satisfied light in his eyes as he followed the faint vapor trail up
into the heavens. Slowly he reached a hand in his coat pocket. From it
he withdrew a small metallic object. It was shaped oddly like a pocket
radio, but of a more advanced and intricate design.

He depressed a small switch and the object glowed. About him there
was the snap and crackle of powerful electrical forces. Bowen's voice
suddenly sounded.

"Myytnor Skurle reporting to Headquarters on project Time Stress."

There was a blue crackle in the air about him. Then a distant voice
intoned: "What is your report?"

He stared up at the sky, smiling, now. "I have personally seen Joe
Linger on his way. My daughter accompanies him on the experiment. She
will remain with the Earthman for his lifetime, keeping us informed as
events progress. I believe she is attracted to him--however, that is a
side issue, the main project having been successfully executed. Shall I
return to Sol III?"

Again the blue crackle. "Our compliments, Myytnor Skurle. You may
return."

The crackle faded and he made a further adjustment on the object he
held. The smile was still on his face as he gazed into the sky after
the space ship--and vanished....

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WE'RE OFF TO MARS! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
