ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of John Holder's Weapon, by Robert Moore
Williams

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: John Holder's Weapon

Author: Robert Moore Williams

Release Date: May 15, 2021 [eBook #65350]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JOHN HOLDER'S WEAPON ***




                         JOHN HOLDER'S WEAPON

                       By Robert Moore Williams

              Holder hated his Communist captors so much
            he wished them out of existence. Impossible, of
           course--and yet they vanished before his eyes....

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             October 1957
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"Get the hell out of my sight, Nocher!" Holder shouted.

The scientist had held his temper ever since he had been taken captive.
This had set up such a condition of strain within him that even in
his dreams, he had seen himself destroying Reds. He had blown them up
with hydrogen bombs, he had destroyed them with death rays, he had
disintegrated them with weapons that no other mind had ever imagined.
Most of all, he had hated the poking, prying political commissars, who
had breathed down his neck in every experiment he had ever attempted,
or had watched from the TV camera installed in every laboratory of the
vast installation, to make certain that any discovery that was made
went to the right place.

But even Holder's most fantastic dreams were nothing in comparison to
what actually happened.

Nocher was a big man, standing six foot two inches tall. There was
Cossack blood in him, which gave him a vast feeling of superiority for
all men not of his race. This was particularly true of the captive
scientists being held prisoner in this secret Ural stronghold. In spite
of the fact that every one of them had a better brain than he had, the
political commissar looked down upon them as being creatures of an
inferior race.

As Holder shouted at the Commissar, Nocher lost his expression of
superiority. His face turned a dim shade of blue, then a thin shade of
white.

Then, clothes and all, he vanished.

Nocher went like smoke before the wind, roiling and turning. When he
vanished, he left a vague outline of a human body behind him which
looked like a hole in space, like a ghost outlined against a gray sky.
Then this vanished too. Of Nocher's bulk, not even a wisp was left.

John Holder was aware of thundering elation somewhere deep down inside
of him. There was horror too, but the elation was greater. He stared at
the empty spot where the commissar had been standing a moment before.

Sounds came from his lips but he had no conscious knowledge that he was
uttering them. They were noises that had existed long before language
had come into being. Their meaning was pure horror. As they came from
his lips, Holder felt every muscle in his stomach begin to tighten into
a knot.

There was absolutely no question in his mind that he was responsible
for Nocher's disappearance. Out of his dreams, out of his hate for the
commissars and all they represented, this ability had been created.
A million to one chance had come true! This ability was something he
did inside himself. It needed no outside equipment to function, no
generators to feed energy to it, no crystals to control its frequency.
It was its own generator and its own frequency control! And it was all
in his own mind! It was new, it was totally different from anything any
scientist had ever envisioned before.

In this moment, staring at the spot where Nocher had been, John Holder
felt as if the concrete floor on which he was standing had no more real
substance to it than empty space. All that existed was mind, energy,
and the dance of the atoms. He also knew that everything he had thought
he had known about science was drivel, the mouthings of an idiot. The
string of degrees after his name, which had so impressed the Red and
had led to his capture by a nation hungry for scientists and willing
to go to any lengths to get them, became meaningless, fodder for the
amazement of fools.

The only important reality in the Universe was mind. Everything else
was subservient to this reality. Mind was flooding through him now as
glowing shafts of light.

"Nocher?" the loudspeaker in the ceiling rasped.

The sound jarred John Holder back to his surroundings. He turned
startled eyes upward. From the ceiling, the bland eye of the television
camera regarded him in silent accusation. He swore beneath his breath.
How much had they seen?

The television system, which spied in every nook and corner of the huge
installation, had been Nocher's idea, his way of making absolutely
certain that he knew everything that was going on among the captive
scientists working here.

The security police had felt that the TV system was a fine idea. There
was no way of predicting what a scientist might discover, or when he
would find it out. Perhaps it would be a new weapon that would enable
them to conquer the world. This was what scientists were for. This was
the reason the whole vast institute existed here in secret.

"Nocher?" the loudspeaker inquired again.

"He went--that way." Holder said quickly, pointing toward an open door.

       *       *       *       *       *

The loudspeaker went silent. Holder hastily turned his attention back
to the lab table, where an experiment was in progress. His head was a
whirl. It seemed to him that the whole center of his cranium was a ball
of light. He knew beyond a doubt that this correlated with his ability
to disintegrate Nocher. The next problem would be to test the process,
in secret, and discover its limits, if any. Did it have any limits? A
body, flesh, bone, blood, had gone--like that. He went from the table
to his desk. With a knowledge that the TV camera was watching every
move he made, he pretended to be busy studying a sheaf of reports on
the experiment in progress. From the back of his desk, a photograph
with three smiling faces looked at him--Marie and Johnny and Teresa.
His wife and their two kids. They were here too, in his apartment,
hostages for his good behavior and for his efficient performance.

The three faces in the photograph were the biggest reason why he hated
Nocher, and all of Nocher's kind and all that Nocher had stood for.

They had been vacationing in the Swiss Alps two years before when all
four had been kidnapped. It had been as simple as that. An American
scientist and his family had vanished from Switzerland. Presumably they
had been taken behind the Iron Curtain but no one in America knew this
for certain. Nor would anyone in the western world have been able to do
anything about it if they had known the facts. Holder assumed that a
search had been made for him. Possibly a protest had been lodged with
the Russian government. If so, like so many other protests, it had come
to nothing. Power was all that was respected in this part of the world.

He grinned to himself. Since power was all they respected, he would
show them some!

He looked up. An armed guard, one of the hated security police, had
entered the room.

"The commandant orders your presence," the guard said.

"Tell the commandant to go to--" Holder caught his tongue in the nick
of time. He forced a polite smile to his face. "I will be glad to call
on the commandant."

"At once," the guard said.

"Certainly," Holder said, rising. With a farewell glance at the
framed photograph on his desk, the scientist left the lab. Why was he
breathing so heavily?

The commandant was a big man with a bald head and arm muscles that
made bulges in the sleeves of his uniform. An ex-spy, to a man the
scientists here in this installation hated him. He sat behind a
plain oak desk and played with a Turkish dagger that he used as a
paper knife. Rumor had it that in the days when he had acted as an
executioner, he had used this knife to slit the throats of his victims.
He did not bother to be polite to a mere scientist. They were dogs to
be used for the benefit of the state.

"You were the last one to see Nocher," the commandant said.

"The _last one_ to see him?" Holder questioned. "I do not understand.
Is he dead?"

"I will ask the questions, you will answer them," the commandant
stated. "What happened to Nocher?" He was so sure of his power that he
did not bother to play his usual game of cat and mouse.

"I do not know that anything happened to him." Holder answered quickly.
"He was in my lab, talking, then he went away."

"How did he go away?"

The scientist shrugged. "I didn't really notice. We chatted for a few
moments, then I turned my attention again to my work. When I looked up,
he was gone. I get the impression from your questions that something is
wrong. May I ask--"

"You may not. I will do the asking. What did you do to Nocher?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Nothing," Holder promptly answered.

"I saw you do it." The commandant pointed to the television screen on
his desk.

"You saw me do what?" Holder said. Anger was rising in him. Again he
had the impression that the inside of his head was filling with light.

"I saw you destroy him, with the new discovery you have made!" A
wolfish grin appeared on the Commandant's face and he looked like a Red
who has just found a way to achieve his heart's desire of swallowing
the world.

Holder saw what was happening. The commandant harbored a secret desire
to be a ruler. Another Mussolini, another Stalin! If the commandant
could win possession of the discovery he thought Holder had made, he
might become another Genghis Khan, to scourge the world with flame and
death.

"You're utterly crazy!" Holder shouted.

"You have discovered a disintegrating ray and I want it." The
commandant continued as if he had not heard a word the scientist had
said. "I'm also going to get it." He flicked a button and motioned
Holder to look at the TV screen. Revealed there were Marie and Johnny
and Teresa. The kids were playing their eternal game of hide and seek
and were waiting for him to return home to play it with them. At the
sight, Holder felt his heart turn over inside him.

"You wouldn't harm them," he whispered. "You wouldn't dare."

The commandant now looked like a Red who had just swallowed the whole
solar system. "Wouldn't I?" he answered. The wolf grin on his face had
spread from ear to ear.

"Get the hell out of my sight!" Holder shouted.

       *       *       *       *       *

The last he saw of the commandant as the latter went away was the
wolfish grin. There was a startled expression on the grin as the man
vanished like something had happened that was not on schedule.

Holder walked quietly out of the room and down the corridor. Behind
him, he heard an alarm bell go off. The pound of heavy boots answering
the alarm bell followed. He moved faster. A shout to halt followed. He
dodged around a corner in the corridor and began to run.

He knew now that he would be followed to the ends of the earth. For
him, and those dear to him, there was no hiding place. His conversation
with the commandant had been monitored. Now that the commandant was
gone, the next in command automatically stepped into his shoes. He
knew what he was going to do, what he _had_ to do. Perhaps--the vague
hope was in his mind--if he could disintegrate bodies, he could also
re-integrate them. He did not know if he could do this and there was no
time to find out. There was only time to act, and hope.

Feet pounded behind him along the corridor. On the roof of the
building, a siren began to wail. All security forces were being called
out.

He slipped from the building, dodged around a concrete statue, and
ran as fast as his legs could carry him toward the living quarters
provided here. This was a three-story concrete structure. As he slid
into the entrance of this building, whistles were shrilling behind
him and armored car motors were beginning to roar. The air was still
vibrating with the shrill screaming of the alarm siren. A guard had
sighted him and was in hot chase behind.

With the feet of the guard clumping behind him, John Holder ran down
the third floor hall toward his apartment. A shot rang out behind
him and the bullet chipped plaster from the wall at the end of the
corridor. A hoarse shout to halt sounded. He snatched open the door
and was inside. His wife, her face a question mark, came toward him.
Panting, he leaned against the wall. With one hand, he shot the latch
on the door.

"I thought I heard a shot," Marie said.

He nodded.

Her face lost all its color. "Then--it's come?" Each had secretly
wondered what would happen when the inevitable hour came when Holder's
work was no longer satisfactory. They could not be returned to
Switzerland. They knew too much. Would it be Siberia? Or a quick death?
What would happen to the children?

Again Holder nodded.

"Daddy! Daddy's home!" This was six year old Johnny shouting the good
news to Teresa. The boy came running to throw himself toward his
father. Holder stooped and picked him up.

"You're going to play games with us tonight?" Johnny demanded. "You're
going to play hide and seek?"

"Your father is very tired right now dear." Marie said quickly. "Later
he will play with you."

"Sure," Holder said. "Sure. Later." He made no effort to release the
boy. Four year old Teresa, carrying her teddy bear, was also making a
bee-line for him. She did not intend to be left out of the fun. Holder
caught her up in his free arm.

Hob-nailed boots pounded to a halt outside the door. A heavy knock
sounded. Marie turned toward the door. Holder shook his head. Down
the corridor a command rasped out. Abruptly the knocking ceased. "Let
'em break it down." Holder said. "That will give me enough time." He
ignored the questions on his wife's face.

"Somebody want in, daddy?" Johnny inquired. "Who is it?"

"The big bad bear," Holder answered. "But don't worry. He won't get
you. I won't let him." To Marie, he said, "Look out the window and tell
me what you see."

"An armored car has just pulled up in front," she said. "They have set
up machine guns on each corner of the b-block."

"Thorough devils," Holder commented.

"What's a devil, daddy?" Johnny asked.

"It's just a word," Holder answered.

Marie moved across the room to him. "John," she said. Then again,
"John--"

"Don't be alarmed, darling," Holder said. "It's only death."

"It's only--" She sat down so quickly that he thought her legs had
given way beneath her.

"That's only a word too," Holder said quickly.

"It--it--" Her lips twisted and a choking movement started in her
throat. "How can you say it's only a word when it's the most real fact
in our existence right now?"

"Is death a fact, or is it another human delusion?" the scientist asked.

"John!" Her eyes were fixed on him with terrible intensity.

"I'm not nuts," he said. "The men outside setting up the machine guns
are the ones who are crazy, not me." Deep inside he was quite sure he
meant what he had said.

"What are they going to do with the guns, daddy?" Johnny asked.

"Guns, daddy," Teresa echoed.

"They're going to use them to make loud noises," Holder answered. "If I
try to run, they will point them at me and make loud noises and I will
fall down."

"And go boom?" Teresa asked. She thought this was amusing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Johnny suddenly sensed the seriousness of the situation. "I don't want
you to fall down, daddy," he said.

"That's the kind of world we live in," Holder answered. "Sooner or
later, everybody has to fall down. There's a law--"

"John!" Marie spoke.

"Which do you want?" Holder answered. "If I fall down, I'll never get
up. Do you want to spend the rest of your life in this kind of a world,
where you will become the plaything of barracks soldiers. Do you want--"

"_John!_"

"Do you want the kids to be raised as wards of the state, where they
will be conditioned into accepting the idea that this world is right?"
Holder gestured toward the windows.

Marie's face revealed mute agony. "N-no. But--isn't there some other
way?"

"Sure," the scientist said. He set the kids on the floor.

Marie's face gleamed with sudden hope like a rainbow seen at the
world's end.

A knock sounded on the door.

The rainbow vanished from her face. She looked toward the door.

"Get the hell out of my sight!" Holder said to her.

She went as Nocher and the commandant had gone. Except that she went
smiling. Her smile seemed to linger in the air, like a bright gleam
from some far-off heaven, after she had gone.

"Where mommy go?" Teresa inquired.

"Yeah where'd she go?" Johnny added. "She was sitting right there just
a minute ago--"

"We will break down the door if you don't open up," a voice said
outside.

"Just a minute," Holder yelled. He looked at his son. Why was it so
difficult to concentrate now? "Johnny," he said. His voice was a hoarse
gasp.

"Yes, dad."

"Get the hell out of my sight."

The boy went easily and rapidly. Johnny did not seem to mind. It was
as if to him there was nothing bad about this experience. And possibly
nothing new.

Holder wiped sweat from his face. Was he sure? Did he really know what
he was doing? Was he certain? There had been no time for testing.

Teresa, staring around the room, was searching for her idol. "Johnny!"
she called. When there was no answer, she looked up at her father and
announced, "Johnny is hiding." This was the beginning of a game.

Holder forced a smile to his face. "Do you want to go find him?"

She clapped her hands in joy. "Sure. Find Johnny."

Why was this tic in his right cheek and this sudden tremor in his
hands? Did this child with the bright blue eyes mean so much to him
that he could not send her after her mother and brother, that he could
not protect her from the men on the other side of the door? Why this
sudden sweat all over his body?

"Get--" His voice faltered into silence. A knot as big as his fist was
in his throat.

"Find Johnny, daddy," Teresa urged.

_Bang!_ The butt of a rifle crashed against the door, giving Holder the
strength that he needed. "Get the hell out of my sight," he said.

She went even easier than Johnny had gone as if the younger they were,
the easier this process was. She went laughing and giggling. She was
going to find Johnny. This was a game of hide and seek, which she had
always enjoyed.

Holder tried to swallow the knot in his throat. He moved to the
mirror, stood regarding himself in it. Why was his heart pounding so
heavily. He, of all men on earth, knew and could prove, that the human
body was only a mental construction, that the very atoms in it were
held together by the force of a patterned idea, and by nothing else.
The pattern on which the body was constructed, the blue-print for the
bones, flesh, and organs, this was an idea, and nothing more. The flesh
and bones, the blood and sinew, that gave reality to the idea, were in
reality only the bricks and mortar, the lumber and metal, that gave
reality to an architect's blue-print of a house. When the house burned
down, or was otherwise destroyed, the _idea_ still remained. It, and it
alone, had life. It, and it alone, had immortality.

Why was sweat spurting from every pore in his body?

_Crash!_ Behind him, the door fell inward.

"Get the hell out of my sight!" he said staring at his reflection in
the mirror.

Nothing happened. The mirror clearly revealed the puzzled frown on his
face and the look of bewilderment in his eyes. It also revealed three
men approaching from behind.

Holder knew he had failed. He had thought that all he would need to
do would be to look at himself in a mirror--and go with the others.
Something had gone wrong.

"I was only sending them ahead of me," he whispered. "I meant to go
too." The agony inside him was as deep as space. He made no effort to
resist the men when they grabbed him.

       *       *       *       *       *

They took him directly to the deepest underground cell in the
headquarters building. He had heard whispered rumors of this place from
the other scientists here but he had never really believed it existed.
They chained him to the wall so that his feet did not touch the floor.
He looked at the chains, and wondered if they would go away when he
told them to.

A little man with the face of a rat entered the cell and the others
withdrew. Rat-face was the interrogator. Obviously Rat-face had had
vast experience with political prisoners. He knew all the questions to
ask and all the torture methods. Holder dimly wondered what tales the
walls of this tiny, barren cell could tell if they had the ability to
speak.

"Where is Nocher?"

"In hell, I hope."

"Ah!"

"I did it," Holder said. "I confess everything. I destroyed Nocher. I
eliminated the commandant. All I ask is that you shoot me, at once."

The rat face revealed mixed pleasure and chagrin. Prisoners were
supposed to confess. But not so quickly. Rat-face felt cheated. He
enjoyed torturing the helpless.

"What about your wife? Did you destroy her too?"

"Yes."

"And your children?"

"Yes."

Rat-face counted on nicotine-stained fingers. "That makes you five
times a killer."

"Yes. Shoot me," Holder begged. The agony inside him was growing
deeper. Visions of Teresa going away danced before his eyes. What had
he actually done to her?

"What did you do with the bodies?"

"I--"

"You have admitted you killed them. You must have hid the bodies some
place."

Rat-face had not been properly briefed by the new commandant. He
thought he was dealing with murder! Holder glanced up at the ceiling.
The TV camera and the microphone were there. Probably the new
commandant was watching this scene from some safe place.

"Where did you hide the bodies?" Rat-face continued.

"Try and find them!" The laughter that followed was wild and Holder
knew it. This fact didn't matter. The political commissars thought all
scientists were crazy anyhow. Except when they made atom bombs. To a
political commissar, atom bombs made sense. They could be dropped on
the heads of people who didn't agree with them.

"How did you do it?" Rat-face demanded. His little beady eyes bored
into Holder as he asked this question.

"Like this," Holder answered. "Get the hell out of my sight."

His laughter continued for minutes, at the funny expression on the
little political commissar's face as Rat-face had gone away. No one
else came into the cell. Holder concentrated his attention on his
chains. He repeated the magic formula. The chains remained as firm as
ever. He stared at them in growing fear. Here was one thing that did
not obey his command to vanish.

"If I had only had time to test!" he muttered. He tried to pull himself
free from the chains. They had been designed and built to prevent
exactly this. He exhausted himself with no result then left off his
efforts when he realized he was hearing the sound of running water.

His feet were wet.

He looked down and saw that the bottom of his cell was covered by
water. "A pipe broke somewhere," he thought. Looking up toward the TV
camera on the ceiling, he yelled, "Hey! You had better repair that pipe
before you drown one of your prisoners."

There was no question in his mind as to what lay ahead for him. He
would be questioned for days, for weeks, if necessary, until they had
gotten his secret from him. The new commandant, and the powers above
him, would use up any number of political commissars to achieve their
goal. Political commissars were cheap. Secrets such as the one John
Holder possessed were very important.

The water was up to his ankles. He saw, then, the purpose of this cell.
It had been constructed so that water could be turned into it. The
helpless wretch who had been left chained to the wall here could either
confess or he could drown. The cell was actually a death trap.

Now he understood why no one else had taken the place of Rat-face!

In dazed horror, he watched the water rise to his knees. The sound was
now that of a roaring torrent. He knew that his unseen watchers had
opened the valve still wider.

The water rose to his chest, constricted a cold band there, then surged
upward to his throat.

"Help!" he screamed involuntarily.

Instantly he heard the valve close. The sound of the torrent stopped.

"Do you talk now?" the speaker on the ceiling asked.

"I--" In this moment of terrible threat, he knew he would talk, not to
save his life, but because he could not help himself, because he could
not keep from talking. He knew, also, that there was nothing he could
put into words which would reveal what he knew to be true. "I--I can't."

       *       *       *       *       *

Again the valve was opened, again the water came into the narrow cell.
It reached Holder's chin. He knew now that they fully intended to
drown him if he didn't reveal what he knew. From the viewpoint of the
watchers, it was better that he should die than that they should take a
chance on letting him escape to tell what he knew to someone else!

"I can't tell you," he screamed. "It won't go into words. It's
something I do inside my mind."

"Talk!" the loudspeaker answered.

"But I'm telling you that I can't--" His voice took on the sound of
a gargle as water poured into his mouth. He spat it out and tried to
scream. The water, rising higher, poured into his mouth. He twisted
his head upward, shoving against the chains that held him to the wall.
The water reached his nose and flowed downward into his lungs.

Within a minute, at most, the level of the water would be hastily
lowered. After he was revived he would be given a chance to tell what
he knew. If he still proved obstinate, the process would be repeated.
But Holder did not know this.

Some prisoners had withstood repeated duckings only to be drowned in
the end. Most told everything they knew after the first treatment.

Inside him, John Holder knew that the human body was only a mental
construction. Only the strength of an idea held flesh and bones and
blood together. He also knew there was no way on earth for him to
reveal this secret to another person, in words. Perhaps long and
careful study of the nature and the kinds of energies involved would
enable him to give a mathematical description of what he knew he could
do inside of him. The Reds would never wait for such a study to be
made. They were looking for something as simple and as dramatic as _E
is equal to MC squared_, the basic equation that had served for the
mathematical springboard for the atom bomb.

As the water poured into his nose and down into his lungs, he made one
last furious effort. The process had worked on other people. How could
he make it work on him? An answer popped into his mind. All he had to
do was to think of himself as another person.

He did this. Light exploded through his brain and flooded through his
whole body.

When the water level was lowered, the bewildered Reds found empty
chains dangling from the walls of the cell. The body they had placed in
the chains was no longer there.

Three days later, the driver of an American jeep, on border patrol at
night with a squad of men, was astonished to find four bodies suddenly
appear within his headlights. To him, they seemed to come out of
nowhere. Brakes screaming, the driver jerked the jeep to a halt. The
sergeant in charge of the squad hastily dismounted.

"I am John Holder and this is my wife and our two children," the man in
the glare of the headlights said.

"Holder?" the sergeant said. "Say, we've got a search order out for
you. You vanished behind the iron curtain."

"We have come back through it," Holder answered. "Take us to your
commanding officer, at once."

They were put into the jeep. "Johnny, go hide again," the smallest
child kept saying. "So we can find him in that place where the light
is. Johnny go hide--"

"Shhh, Teresa," her father answered, indulgently. "No more game until
we get back to America." He thought longingly of that land across the
sea that to them was home. "Besides it is too hard to find you on the
other side, and re-integrate a body for you--"

"John," the woman spoke reprovingly. "Why explain it to them? You know
they can't understand what you're talking about."

Holder grinned and was silent. Sometimes he wondered if he understood
it all himself. All he knew was that a body could be disintegrated, by
pure mental force.

The jeep shifted into high gear. At the end of this journey, a plane
would be waiting. This would take them to America.... Home.... There a
whole new world of exploration waited for him. The very best research
teams the country possessed would be at his disposal, the keenest
brains, the sharpest minds. Hugging the kids to him, he smiled quietly
to himself.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JOHN HOLDER'S WEAPON ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
