ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Outcast of the Stars, by Robert Silverberg

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Outcast of the Stars

Author: Robert Silverberg

Release Date: June 19, 2021 [eBook #65642]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OUTCAST OF THE STARS ***




                         Outcast Of The Stars

                           By Bob Silverberg

                 Yorkan Varr was exiled to the prison
                   planet for a crime he knew he had
                  never committed. Oddly, the man who
                had sent him there was a prisoner too!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             February 1957
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"We're coming close to Earth now, Yorkan Varr," said the patrolman.
"We'll be dumping you any minute now."

The man addressed as Yorkan Varr scowled bitterly. "You're making a
mistake, I tell you. I didn't kill that man. I didn't even know him!"

The patrolman shrugged. "Sorry, but that's the way things go. The court
said you're guilty--and here you are. Don't jump on me. I'm just doing
my job."

Yorkan Varr made no reply. There was no sense arguing with the
patrolman, after all. There was no sense arguing with anyone.

He got up and stared out the viewplate at the mottled, spinning globe
of Earth below, growing closer every moment, and his thin lips curled
in an angry grimace. _Earth._ The garbage world, the dumping-ground
for the Galaxy's undesirables. Who'd ever imagine that he--Yorkan
Varr--would someday be approaching Earth for a life of exile?

He whirled to face the unsmiling patrolman. "Dammit, Hober, I _didn't_
kill him! You can't throw me into that refuse-heap down there! You
can't do it!"

"Please, Yorkan Varr. We're approaching the moment when we must part."
The patrolman held out a hand. "I'm sorry to have to do this to you.
It's my job, that's all. Shake?"

Yorkan Varr stared at the extended hand for a moment, then slapped it
away. The patrolman smiled apologetically and rang a bell. Three other
men, also in the bronze uniform of the Condelari Federation, appeared
from within and saluted.

"Get the disposal ship ready," the patrolman ordered.

"Yes, sir."

Hober turned to Yorkan Varr. "Come on, now. Let's go down and get ready
to go to Earth, shall we?"

With a half-sobbing cry, Yorkan Varr threw himself forward on the
patrolman. His fists pounded mercilessly into the amazed man as he
released the pent-up emotions of the nightmarish trial, the sentence,
the journey across space to Earth.

"Help! Help!"

Varr felt hands grasp him from behind. Blind with rage, he let go of
Hober, struck out at the others, felt his fists crack satisfyingly
into flesh.

Then there was the chilling numbness of a stunbeam, and Varr froze.

"All right," he heard someone say. "Let's load him aboard the disposal
rocket. They all crack up this way, I guess."

He felt hands lift him, felt himself being carried down a ladder
and into a cooler room. Then he blanked out as a sudden thrust of
acceleration struck him. His last conscious thought was that he was
now on the last leg of his one-way journey to Earth, condemned to the
dumping-ground of the universe for a crime he never committed.

_I didn't kill him_, he thought fiercely. _I didn't kill him._

When he awoke, he found himself lying in a wooded area. He sat up in
the grass and tried to get his bearings. He was dressed in rough,
oddly-cut clothing, and in his hand was a letter-capsule. He broke it
open and read the note inside.

    _To Yorkan Varr_:

    _You have been accused and found guilty of the crime of murder.
    Therefore, you have been placed on the planet Sol III to live out
    the rest of your natural life._

    _However, in order that you may not be helpless, we have provided
    you with clothing, money, and identification. You will be able to
    get along in this society if you are careful. We warn you, however,
    that the people of this planet actually kill for punishment of
    certain crimes. Govern yourself accordingly._

                                               _The Council of Judges._

As Yorkan read the last line, the message paper faded, grayed, and
crumbled in his hand. It became a powder and fell, like fine ash, from
his fingers.

And with it went the last thing that connected him with the Condelari
Federation.

Yorkan stood up and looked up at the stars. _I know who did it_, he
thought. _But I couldn't prove it._

He had seen the man's face just before he had blanked out from the
stungun. When he had awakened, he found himself with a corpse and a
charge of murder against him.

He looked down at himself again. His suit was coarsely woven and crude.
He reached instinctively into his pocket and pulled out a billfold. The
cards in it said he was John Arthur Stern, a retired war veteran who
had been badly wounded during his service in the United Nations Police,
during the African Insurrection of 1986.

"Well, fine," he said bitterly to the trees around him. "Where does
that get me?"

"You're an Earthman now," said a voice. "That's what you'll have to
remember."

Yorkan whirled at the sound of the soft, liquid voice.

"Who's that?" He found himself using English, the predominant language
of this part of the exile planet. The language had been hypnotically
implanted in his brain.

The girl was standing less than ten yards from him. In the moonlight,
her hair and skin seemed almost silvery. She was light of complexion,
he realized, and her hair was a light red-blonde. "Who the devil are
you?"

She smiled a little and walked toward him. He felt a little odd; here
he was, in a wood on a primitive planet, knowing almost nothing of the
civilization that surrounded him, confronted by an Earthgirl who seemed
to know him.

"It's a shock, I know," she was saying, "but you'll get over it. I know
where you came from; you're a Condelarian. You've been exiled to this
planet. We don't ask why you were sent here, nor what you did, nor what
your real name is. What's the name on your identity card?"

"Stern," he said. "John Arthur Stern. But that doesn't explain why
you're here."

The smile left her face. "We're all exiles here; the Group is composed
entirely of exiles. We keep tabs on the prison ships that bring new
offenders here, and we try to meet each one and tell them what's going
on on this planet."

"And who are you?" he asked.

"Elizabeth Kirk is the name I was given. And as far as we are both
concerned, that's my name."

"Very well, Elizabeth. Now, would you kindly explain what's going on?"
He didn't trust the girl.

She stopped a few feet away, evidently realizing his suspicions.
"Several hundred of us have been exiled here in the past few years,"
she explained. "We have been able to contact each other for our mutual
protection. We help each other to learn to get along with the native
Earthmen."

"Is that all?" He felt that the Group--whatever it was--must be doing
more than that.

"Come with me," Elizabeth said. "I'll take you to the Group. They can
explain everything. Our leader will tell you all about it."

Yorkan--no, _Stern_. He'd have to think of himself as Stern from now
on--Stern followed the girl out of the wooded area. There was an
automobile parked near a winding ribbon of road. She got behind the
wheel and started the engine. The turboelectric motor whirred softly,
and the car started down the highway.

"We're near Suffern, New York," the girl told him conversationally.
"It's about an hour's drive from New York City itself."

The names brought forth hypnotically implanted memories in Stern's
mind. But he found he didn't care where he was, really; all he wanted
to do was get away from this planet--to prove, somehow, that he was
innocent of the crime of which he had been accused.

The girl evidently sensed that her passenger didn't want to talk,
because she didn't say another word during the drive into the city.

Stern didn't ask any questions; he wanted to think things out for
himself. Besides, he had a hunch that he wouldn't get any satisfactory
answers if he did ask her questions.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was almost dawn when the car pulled up in front of the huge glass
and aluminum building at 582 Fifth Avenue. The girl parked the car and
opened the door. Then she spoke for the first time in over an hour.

"Shall we go in?"

John Stern grinned bitterly. "I may as well; what other choice do I
have?"

"None, really," she said. "Come along."

She produced a key to the front door of the building, twisted it in
the lock, and swung open one of the glass doors. Stern followed her to
the bank of elevators, where she produced another key, unlocked the
elevator, and ushered him inside.

She pushed the control button, and the car lifted rapidly.

Stern grinned inwardly. He was amused at his own helplessness. He knew
very little about this world, so he couldn't turn down an opportunity
to learn something about it, but he still felt as though he were being
pushed into something he didn't like.

He wasn't going to let himself be pushed; that much he was sure of.
Sol Three--Earth--was a dumping ground for criminals; what right did
criminals have in organizing a group of their own? And how had they
done it?

Yorkan Varr--now John Stern--didn't feel himself a criminal. He knew
he had done nothing wrong; the evidence against him in the Galactic
Court had been damning, but he knew that the Council of Judges had done
the only thing they could have done at the time. He didn't hold any
grudge against them; they had done what was right, what was in the real
interests of civilization and the Condelari Federation.

Therefore, he felt that any group of criminals who organized against
the Federation was definitely in the wrong.

Elizabeth said: "Eighteenth floor. We get out here."

They stepped out of the elevator, turned to the left, and walked
down the hall. There was a light on in the office at the end of the
hall--Suite 1814. The girl used another key on the door and walked into
a room that was bare except for a few pictures on the wall, a couple of
chairs, and a couch. She walked over to the wall and pressed a button
in an intricate code. Then she walked over to the couch and sat down.
She patted the cushion beside her.

"You may as well sit down, John Stern; Matt Skardoth wont be able to
talk to us for several minutes."

Stern didn't sit down. He walked over to the girl and stood over her.

"Look, honey," he said coldly, "I've come this far. Now tell me what
it's all about. What sort of organization _is_ this?"

She looked up at him calmly and took a cigarette out of her purse.
Stern watched curiously as she lit it.

She saw his gaze and smiled. "It's an Earthman's habit," she said.
"It's harmless and rather nice. Try one?"

He pushed away the proffered package. "No. I want information."

Elizabeth leaned back and exhaled a cloud of smoke.

"It's very simple," she said. "All of us have been exiled illegally.
We've been put on this barbaric planet for crimes we haven't committed.
We're organizing to take over the Earth government. We're going to get
a spaceship built that can take us out of here."

There was a hum at the door that led to the inner office, and the
door swung quietly open. Elizabeth stood up. "Come along, John; Matt
Skardoth, our leader, will talk to you."

There were several men and women working in the inside office. A few of
them glanced up, then went back to the work they were doing. It looked
like a pretty efficient organization.

It was when Stern stepped into the inner office that he got his big
shock. The man sitting behind the desk was a pleasantly smiling
individual with dark, close-cropped hair and a wide, easy smile. But
Stern had seen that face before; it was the man who had killed Bargon
Frosz; the man who had committed the crime for which Yorkan Varr had
been condemned!

       *       *       *       *       *

Stern's eyes widened, then he regained control of himself.

"I'm Matt Skardoth," the man behind the desk said. His voice was deep,
mellow. "Welcome to our little group, Mr.--ah--"

"Stern."

"Stern." Skardoth leaned forward. "You know, of course, what the aims
of our organization are."

"To build a ship and get off Earth, isn't it?" Stern said. He thought:
_This is incredible. Here I am talking to the murderer whose rap I
took, and--_

"Exactly," Skardoth said. "We've been exiled unjustly--and we're
determined to take steps to save ourselves. You don't have to join us,
but I think it's in your best interest to do so."

It was at that point that Stern realized what the man behind the desk
was doing. Matt Skardoth was the leader of the Group! And yet, Matt
Skardoth had managed to murder Bargon Frosz and frame Yorkan Varr for
the crime.

And the murder had taken place less than six months before!

Obviously, the man called Matt Skardoth had some way of getting off the
planet Earth!

John Stern had to clench his jaw muscles to keep from saying anything.
If he were to denounce Skardoth now, without proof, it would probably
cost him his life.

He noticed that Skardoth was looking at him queerly, and he realized
that he had been acting unusually.

"What's the matter?" Skardoth asked.

Smothering his hatred for the man who had falsely condemned him, Stern
said: "Nothing--nothing. I'm just a little surprised, that's all. I
thought this planet would be a living hell; a planet where I'd have to
watch out for myself every moment. I'm glad to see that I was wrong,
but it's a little shocking--that's all."

Skardoth's smile returned. "That's natural; most of us feel that way."

"I'm sure," Stern said. It took every bit of self-control he had to
keep from leaping across the desk at the man.

It was clear that the man had something else in mind than the freeing
of people who had been condemned by the Council of Judges. What was it
that Elizabeth had said?

_All of us have been exiled illegally._

If that was true, it meant that Matt Skardoth was behind the illegal
ostracism of every Condelarian citizen on the planet!

And that was the main thing that held Stern back. If what he thought
was actually true, then he was the only one who really knew what Matt
Skardoth had done! And, by the way Skardoth was treating him, Skardoth
didn't know that Stern was aware of his identity!

Skardoth leaned back behind his desk and smiled blandly. "It is
probably obvious to you that the Federation has, for some reason of its
own, framed you on this charge." He smiled softly. "Naturally, I don't
know why you've been condemned to Earth, but that doesn't concern the
Group. We _do_ know that you have been condemned illegally--so you
will want to escape.

"What we have in mind is this: we will get away from this planet after
we have taken it over. We will force the Condelari Federation to
recognize us as an independent government. Are you with us?"

Stern forced a grin. "I'm with you."

"Excellent," said Skardoth. "We will have use for you." He put out his
hand, and Stern, feeling trapped, took it.

"Good luck, John Stern," said Skardoth.

It was that last remark that finally made up Stern's mind; Skardoth
shouldn't have known his _first_ name! He shouldn't have known any part
of the name that the Council of Judges had assigned to Yorkan Varr.
Since he did, it meant that Matt Skardoth knew more than he should!

       *       *       *       *       *

It was nearly three weeks before "John Stern" figured out a method of
attack. If he could only get his hands on Matt Skardoth, he'd be able
to prove that he, Yorkan Varr, was innocent of the crime of which he
had been accused. And, possibly, he would be able to prove that the
others of the Group were innocent, too.

Skardoth's plan was quite evident. Earth was a Class Q-1 civilization;
it bordered on being admitted to the Federation. But Skardoth had been
on Earth for five hundred years; the short-lived Earthmen had no idea
that their destinies had been controlled by a being whose life span was
nearly ten times as long as theirs.

Yorkan Varr--he tried to think of himself as John Stern now--was, like
all citizens of the Federation, extremely long-lived. He would easily
live to be a thousand--perhaps more. But the Exiles had, in the last
few centuries, taken advantage of the Earthmen--a fact which had not
been communicated to the Council of Judges. The Council evidently
thought that the Earth was still in the lower classes of civilization;
they didn't realize that Earthmen had already built interplanetary
spaceships and might yet build interstellar vehicles.

Stern felt he could trust the girl, Elizabeth. She seemed to be aware
that something was wrong, but she didn't quite seem to know what.

One night, Skardoth assigned both of them to go out to Long Island to
take a look at the Nuclear Power Plant there. He wanted data on the new
nucleolectric energies that had been developed.

Elizabeth was supposedly a nuclear scientist assigned to the Long
Island plant; for twelve years she had built up her identity there.

But, as they approached the installation, she slowed the car and parked
it alongside the road.

"What's the idea, Liz?" he asked.

"There's something troubling you Johnny. What is it?"

He looked at her bleakly. "You really want to know?"

She nodded and started to say something, but before she could answer,
he said: "Okay; I'll tell you. We--you and I, and all the others of
the Group--are being led by the nose. Skardoth is using us for his own
purposes."

Rapidly, he explained what he knew about the leader of the group. When
he had finished, he held his breath. If the girl didn't believe him--

Elizabeth nodded slowly. "I know," she said softly. "I've known for a
long time. So have most of the others. We knew he was controlling us."
Then her blue eyes flashed hatred. "But we didn't know he was framing
us. We knew that what he was doing was wrong, but we didn't realize
that it was Skardoth who got us into this."

"Then you believe me?" he asked.

She turned to him, her deep blue eyes looking straight into his. Her
voice was low and whispering when she spoke. "Of course I believe
you, you idiot! But what could I do? I've been on this planet a long
time; nearly seventy years. I know what Skardoth wants. He wants to
take over this planet and then take over the Galaxy. These people--the
Earthlings--have more potential power than any other race in the
universe. Given another century, they'll outdo us in almost every
field. If they're on the side of the Condelari Federation, we'll be all
right; but if they're on the side of Skardoth, then the Federation is
helpless."

Stern nodded. "That's right. The Federation has misjudged these people.
The Council of Judges still thinks that they're stupid barbarians--and
they're not."

He took a deep breath. "We're in one hell of a jam, Liz; we've both
been framed for something we haven't done. I _know_ that Skardoth is
responsible for the whole thing. He must be much older than he looks.
How old would you say he was?"

Elizabeth shrugged. "Middle-aged, I'd say. Maybe nine hundred years."

Stern shook his head. "More than that. I've been keeping tabs on what
has happened here on Earth for the past few centuries. By careful
analysis, I've spotted the first time that Skardoth came to this
planet." He reached out and touched her hand. "He's been here for more
than twelve hundred years."

Her eyes narrowed. "That means that he's had some method of escape all
these years. He's got an interstellar ship planted somewhere."

"Sure. He framed all of us; he's managed to get all of us sent here as
criminals. Liz, I tell you, he's _using_ us!"

She started to say something, but, at that moment, the car radio broke
into life. A harsh voice said:

"Very pretty. I'm sorry to have to deal with both of you this way."

It was as though Skardoth's voice had galvanized him into action. Stern
heard the voice, and, before it had finished, he had opened the door of
the car and flung himself out.

He tried to push Elizabeth out the other way, but it was too late.
Just as John Stern tumbled out of the car, a greenish-yellow cloud of
radiance appeared in the front seat for a fraction of a second. When it
faded, Elizabeth was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stern picked himself up from the gravel at the side of the road and
looked at the car. It was empty. It looked like any Terrestrial
automobile. As he stood up, he heard a faint voice over the radio.

"... too bad that he wasn't in the focus of the ray...."

There was no more.

He knew, then, what had happened. Skardoth had had a voice pickup
in the car. As soon as he had heard a confession from both of them,
Skardoth had used a built-in transport field.

Stern stood there for a moment, looking at the empty car. He'd been
lucky; if the transport field hadn't hit Elizabeth squarely, she
would have been completely disintegrated. As it was, Elizabeth had
been caught in the field, but Stern had not. She had been transported
to wherever the field focus was located, and Skardoth assumed that
John Stern had been half in and half out of the field, and had been
dissipated into nothingness.

Stern grinned. That had been Matt Skardoth's last mistake.

State Patrol Car 331, cruising along the Montauk-Manhattan highway,
spotted a lone figure standing at the side of the road. He raised his
hands and flagged them down.

Sergeant Riley applied the brakes and slowed down. His partner,
Patrolman Garetti, eased his .38 out of its holster. It wasn't likely
that the man who was flagging them down was dangerous, but there was
no use taking a chance. Patrol Car 331 slowed to a stop.

Sergeant Riley leaned out of the car window.

"What seems to be the trouble?" he asked.

John Stern pointed with one hand while the other hand touched the
sergeant's neck. "My car," Stern said distinctly, "was stolen down
there."

But, the instant his fingers had touched the police officer's neck,
that officer had become a slave of his own nervous system.

"Okay; climb in," said Sergeant Riley.

Stern went around to the other side of the car, and Patrolman Garetti
said: "Hey! Where are we supposed...."

But he was too late: Stern's hand had already touched his neck.
Patrolman Garetti didn't argue in the least when the Sergeant said:
"Okay, Garetti; let's get to Manhattan as fast as possible. Use the
siren."

John Stern leaned back and relaxed while the police car headed toward
Manhattan with its siren wide open. The cars ahead of them pulled over
to the side as the State Police roared down the road toward Manhattan.

The road was fairly empty, that late at night. They sped toward the
city at eighty miles an hour, roared down the open stretches of flat
roadway into the city.

The highway crowded up in Queens, but they hit the Triboro, crossed
over into Manhattan, and moved on down Fifth Avenue toward 582.

"Okay," Stern said, as they reached Fiftieth Street. "Cut the siren and
pull up outside 582. I'll take care of it from here."

The officers did as ordered. When Stern got out, he said, "Forget all
about what has happened. Go back to your beat."

The policemen pulled away without a sound.

Stern looked up at the building. There was still a light on the
eighteenth floor.

But--how could he get up there? The front door was locked. If he broke
in, he'd have to deal with another group of cops--and that was too
risky.

What could he do? To get to the eighteenth floor, he'd have to get into
the building, open the elevator, go....

Stern shook his head. It wasn't worth it. He flexed his muscles and
looked up the side of the building. It wasn't too high: it could be
done. Stern squeezed his fingers together and began the climb up the
sheer side of the great building.

It was nearly half an hour later that John Stern pulled himself up
outside the eighteenth floor of the suite occupied by Matt Skardoth.

Hanging precariously by his fingertips, he looked inside the brightly
illuminated window. Inside, he saw Matt Skardoth watching Elizabeth
Kirk, who was tightly bound to a chair in the corner of the room.

"It's too bad your hero's been killed," Skardoth said. "Because now
there's no one to rescue you."

"What are you going to do to me, Skardoth?" he heard the girl ask.

"Unfortunately, you've found out too much about my plans, you and that
John Stern. If word got back to the Federation--" Skardoth shook his
head. "No. I'll have to silence you the way I did him."

Stern clamped his lips together. _So I'm silenced, eh?_ He tightened
his grasp on the ledge, pulled himself up, kicked at the window.

The glass burst inward in a tinkling shower. Stern catapulted himself
through the shattered window, and in one quick bound he leaped on
Skardoth and knocked the big man sprawling to the floor.

Skardoth rolled over and bashed a fist upward. Stern gave with the
blow, sucked in his breath, and raked his fist into Skardoth's teeth.

Skardoth tried to stand up, but another fist smashed into him,
smearing his nose across his face like so much putty. Another fist, and
then another hit the dark faced man. He collapsed as though he had been
clubbed by a baseball bat.

Stern stood over the fallen man, clenching and reclenching his fists.
He could hardly hear his own words, but he knew they were words of
imprecation.

After a moment, he turned, to look at Elizabeth.

He walked over and took the magneclamps off her wrists.

"What are you going to do now, Johnny?" she asked as she flexed her
wrists.

Stern looked bleakly at the mangled figure on the floor.

"I'd like to kill him. It's because of him that you and I have been
condemned to die here." Then he stopped and grinned. "On the other
hand, if we could find the ship he's been using to get from here to the
stars, we could find a little world of our own; we could--"

She stood up then, and smiled at him. "Yorkan Varr, we know you're
innocent. There's no need for you to run."

"We?" he asked. "Who's we? I simply did my duty; I only--"

"_Shhhh!_" she interrupted. "The Council of Judges has known for a long
time that this planet needed correction. But, according to the law,
the Judges couldn't interrupt. They sent me first, and then you. It
took both of us to do the job."

Stern heard a slight hum outside the window of the eighteenth floor
suite. When he looked out, he saw the vague outline of an interstellar
patrol ship. A man in a Patrol uniform stuck his head in the window.

"I understand we have a prisoner to pick up," he said.

Stern put one arm around the girl and gestured with his free hand.
"There he is, chum. Pick him up."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OUTCAST OF THE STARS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
