The Project Gutenberg eBook of Bleekman's Planet, by Ivar Jorgensen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Bleekman's Planet

Author: Ivar Jorgensen

Release Date: June 22, 2021 [eBook #65666]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BLEEKMAN'S PLANET ***





              Thornwald had done his tour of duty for the
           Solar Service; now it was time for him to retire
          But a life of relaxation would not be simple on--

                           Bleekman's Planet

                           By Ivar Jorgensen

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             February 1957
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Looking around cautiously, Mac Thornwald eased himself down from the
window ledge where he had been crouching. It was less than a ten-foot
drop, but because of the pain in his left ankle he didn't dare to drop
too heavily. His right leg would have to take the brunt of the shock.

As he struck the plastosteel pavement, he clamped his lips together
to cut short the moan of pain that welled up as his left foot twisted
under him.

He staggered a little and then straightened to look around. No one had
heard anything. The city around him was still silent. He still had a
chance. Only the ghostly whispers of the air-reptiles drifting through
the sky could be heard.

Taking a deep breath, he reholstered the pistol he was clutching and
began limping up the dark street toward the Governor's Mansion.

Eventually, the numbing pain began to leave his foot. The stun beam had
hit the nerves near the ankle, but the effect wore off after several
minutes of walking. _Okay_, he thought. _I'm back in business again._
The Governor of Bleekman's Planet had reckoned wrong when he tried to
take personal property away from an ex-Patrolman.

       *       *       *       *       *

MacKenzie Thornwald had landed on Bleekman's Planet less than eight
hours before. He was a young man, tall and dark and hard-looking, with
the deep tan of the veteran spaceman. Ten years with the Interstellar
Police had strengthened him and taught him to take care of himself.

He'd still be in the service except for the loss of his left arm,
which had been burned off by a Mark X rifle during a skirmish. It
had earned Thornwald a medal and a fat retirement pension. So he had
decided to take it easy for the rest of his life.

He had picked Bleekman's Planet. It was well out of the more civilized
areas of the Galaxy, a frontier planet out on the Rim. Bleekman's
Planet had, as yet, only one city--Velliston.

The setup had looked good. There was money to be made on a frontier
planet, away from the main stream of Galactic civilization. Mac
Thornwald had wanted to settle down in a small, sparsely-populated area
and just take it easy the rest of his life. And Bleekman's Planet had
looked like just the place.

He couldn't have been wronger. Trouble started the moment he got off
the space shuttle from the liner.

"Here you are, pal," the shuttle pilot said. "All set?"

"Sure," Thornwald said. He scooped up his baggage with his one good arm
and walked down the ramp. Behind him, the shuttle blasted off, heading
back to the mother ship above. Thornwald paused at the landing, with
his suitcase dangling from his arm and his trunk at his side, looking
at the Bleekman's Planet Spaceport.

"Over here, you," said a cold voice.

Thornwald glanced over and saw two men approaching him in uniform.
"We're the customs inspectors," the taller of the two said. "We'll have
to look at your baggage."

"Fair enough," Thornwald said. "You'll find I'm not carrying anything
prohibited. I'm coming here to settle."

"We'll decide whether your stuff's okay," the smaller inspector said.
The two men hoisted Thornwald's baggage and carried it to the depot.
Thornwald followed.

"Let's have the keys," the tall one ordered. Mac handed over the
keys and they opened the trunk. The first thing they discovered was
Thornwald's prosthetic arm.

"What's _this_?" The inspector's voice registered shock.

"Haven't you ever seen a prosthetic arm? I lost mine in combat, and
this is my spare."

The inspector's eyes narrowed. "How come you're not wearing it, then?"

"It's thought-attuned. It's controlled directly from my neural centers,
and the linkage isn't completely smooth yet. It takes time to learn how
to use one of those things, and it's a strain learning. I don't wear
the arm all the time."

The inspector nodded. He turned back and continued to check through
Thornwald's luggage. Finally, the two inspectors held a whispered
conference and looked up.

"What are you doing on this planet, Mr. Thornwald?"

"I'm--I've come here to live. I'm a retired Interstellar Policeman."

"We noticed that. But this stuff looks suspicious. I think we'll have
to hold you for questioning."

Thornwald backed away. "What's that? What kind of questioning? Is this
a shakedown of some kind?"

"Orders of the Governor," the inspector said. "Come on, now--we'll put
you away until the Governor can talk to you himself."

"Hold it, fellow," Thornwald warned. "I'm a policeman, and I know the
law. You can't lock me away without a writ."

The other chuckled. "Oh no? Want to see how?"

Thornwald stepped forward and cracked his fist into the man's face
without waiting for further conversation. The man went toppling
backward, but the second one moved in and quickly caught Mac's arm. He
lifted his blaster and whipped it across Thornwald's face.

Helpless, Thornwald tried to duck. The butt cut into his flesh just
above the cheekbone, and he sagged limply.

"You'll come now, I think."

       *       *       *       *       *

"In here, Thornwald."

The door of a cell opened, and rough hands hurled Thornwald inside. The
metal door clanked closed. Thornwald sat down on the hard cot in the
corner of the cell and tried to rub the pain away.

_Nice welcome_, he thought. _Half an hour on Bleekman's Planet and I've
had my baggage confiscated, gotten a pistol-whipping, and got tossed
into the jug. Pleasant planet._ He rubbed his head and groaned.

"They give it to you bad?" a voice said.

"Who's there?"

"Don't jump," the voice said. "I'm your cellmate. The name is Miller.
I've been here a week."

Thornwald squinted in the darkness and made out the dimly-visible form
of a man huddled up against the wall in the far corner of the cell.

"Just arrive?" Miller said.

"Yes. And I'm pretty puzzled about this damned rough stuff. What kind
of a world is this, anyway?"

Miller chuckled hollowly. "A lousy one. You're new here; you haven't
felt the worst of it yet."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that you're now the private property of Governor Lloyd
Henderson and his paid thugs. I mean that Henderson runs this world,
and there's nothing you or I or anybody else can do but knuckle under."

Thornwald sprang to his feet. "How is it the outside world doesn't know
about this? How'd it happen? Who is this Henderson, anyway?"

"One question at a time," Miller said. "Why doesn't the outside world
know? Simple. No one leaves Bleekman's Planet, and so nobody finds out.
Not even a space liner lands here; it's too unimportant for that. A
shuttle comes down.

"As for how it happened--well, do you know anything about thylomine?"

"The cancer-curing drug?"

"That's the one. It's made from the _narkos_ tree, which is found on
Bleekman's Planet and a couple of other places. The leaves of the plant
are rich in it. All you have to do is gather them and process them,
and the drug can be made in quantity. Henderson's got the monopoly on
_narkos_-growing here. He was a big farmer originally, who just bought
everyone else out. Now he's the governor, and the thylomine trade is in
his back pocket, along with the rest of the planet."

Thornwald kicked his foot against the wall angrily. "Of all the lousy
worlds I had to pick to come to live on--" He turned to his cellmate.
"Why are you here?"

Miller shrugged. "Why are _you_ here? Why is anyone here? Anyone who
crosses Henderson gets dumped in here."

"But I didn't cross him," Thornwald protested. "I wasn't on the damn
planet more than a minute before they grabbed me."

"There must be a reason. Maybe they think you're a spy from the
Galactic Federation. That's what they fear worst of all--someone
getting in here and spilling the beans to the rest of the universe."

"That must be it," Thornwald agreed. "I'm a retired Police officer.
They must think I'm here as a spy." He shook his head. "I've got to get
out of here!"

"How are you going to do that?"

"Just wait and see." He cupped his hand. "Guard! _Guard!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

He yelled a second time and a third. The sound of his shouting echoed
down the prison corridor, reverberated from the walls hollowly. "Guard!
Guard!"

"Okay," a bored voice said. "Quit yelling. What's the trouble in there?"

"It's my arm," Thornwald gasped. "It's haemorrhaging--I'm bleeding to
death!"

"You that one-armed fellow they just brought in?"

"Yes, yes! Come on! Get me a doctor before I bleed to death!"

There was a note of desperate urgency in Thornwald's voice that was so
convincing he could almost feel his stump throbbing.

"All right, I'll take a look," the guard said finally. He fumbled with
his keys and inserted one, while Thornwald threw himself to the floor
and lay there, writhing in apparently hideous pain.

"Where are you?"

"Down here," Thornwald said weakly. "I can't stand up. I--"

The guard bent to see what was wrong, and Thornwald kicked upward at
him. His boot took the jailer on the side of his jaw and knocked him
backward against the wall. As he staggered there, stunned, Thornwald
sprinted past him and out the cell door into the corridor.

"Get him, Miller!" he yelled as he broke away.

A bright stunbeam light spurted out as Thornwald left. He winced as it
nicked him in one ankle, almost hamstringing him, but he kept going.
Behind him, he heard the sound of Miller fighting with the bewildered
guard.

Thornwald dashed down the corridor as well he could with one foot
nearly crippled, reached the window, hoisted himself up with his arm,
and crawled up to the ledge.

He smashed open the window and shimmied through.

He was out of jail now--or would be when he dropped the ten feet to the
ground. But he wasn't out of trouble yet--not by a long shot.

       *       *       *       *       *

The building up ahead was the Governor's Mansion--and that was the
first stop, and, he hoped, the last.

The customs inspectors had said something about taking his trunk to the
Governor. Good. Thornwald had to get to his trunk before much more
time elapsed.

His arm was in the trunk--the prosthetic arm. He was almost helpless
one-armed, except where he could capitalize on the weapon of surprise.
Once he got the prosthetic from his trunk--

He faded into the shadows as a uniformed figure passed by. One of
Henderson's policeman, no doubt, making the night rounds. Thornwald let
the man go by, then continued to glide among the shrubbery toward the
impressive mansion that was Henderson's home.

Thornwald's mind revolved the situation over and over as he moved
along. This world was Henderson's private property, and anyone who said
different was jugged instantly. It was a world of terror in which a
harmless stranger could become a hunted fugitive in a matter of minutes.

He reached Henderson's place. It was a walled mansion, as he expected.
There were ways to get over walls, though, Thornwald reflected. He
glanced around, found a strange-looking red-leaved tree whose angular
limbs had the consistency of rubber, and dragged himself upward.

He reached the bough he wanted, grasped it firmly, and swung out over
the wall. He landed--

A foot away from a snarling, blazing-eyed ball of fury. Even in the
darkness, he could see the animal clearly--a Vegan _ghoslik_, all teeth
and ferocity and mindless hatred. It snapped at the intruder.

Thornwald launched a vicious kick at the animal, and there was the
sound of needle-sharp teeth splintering against his boot. The creature
howled and bounded away into the darkness.

_So much for your watchdog, Henderson. Now for the real job._

He tiptoed to a window and peered in. A uniformed man was in there,
pacing up and down in a corridor. Thornwald smiled, picked up a rock,
and hurled it through the window.

The guard whirled instantly, presenting his blaster. "Who goes there?"

Thornwald made no reply. The guard continued to peer out into the
night. "Who's there?" he repeated.

As if in answer, Thornwald hurled another rock through the window. This
time the guard dashed out of the corridor, up the stairs, and out into
the courtyard--where Thornwald was waiting for him with a third rock.

"It's a good thing it wasn't my pitching arm I lost," he muttered
gratefully as the guard crumpled. Swiftly Thornwald extracted the
guard's blaster and stepped inside the building.

He edged down the corridor, blaster ready, and turned the corner. There
was the sound of laughter coming from a room at the end of the hallway.

After a moment's thought, he crashed the butt of the blaster against
a window in the corridor, then flattened himself against the wall and
waited.

A few seconds later, a man appeared from the room beyond. "What was
that noise?" he asked loudly.

Thornwald glanced down the hall. The man who approached was one of the
customs inspectors who had beaten him up that afternoon. He fingered
the blaster stud and stepped out to block the hallway.

"What--?"

"Put your hands up," Thornwald ordered quietly. "And if you say a word,
I'll roast your brains in your skull."

       *       *       *       *       *

He glared at the man. "All right, where's my luggage?"

The customs man met his stare grimly. "I don't know."

Thornwald's one arm whipped out and the blaster's barrel slapped the
inspector across the face. A trickle of blood dribbled down. "Where's
my stuff?" Thornwald repeated.

"Henderson's got it," the customs inspector said sullenly.

"And where's Henderson?"

"I'm not telling."

_Crack!_ with the gun barrel. "That's for this afternoon," Thornwald
said. "Where's Henderson?"

"Fourth floor," the man gasped. Thornwald hit him again. "You sure?"

"I'm telling the truth! Fourth floor!"

The gun descended once again. Satisfied, Thornwald left the other
crumpled on the floor, and started up the stairs to the fourth floor.

He wanted Henderson, now.

More than anything, he wanted his missing left arm back. Half a
dozen times in the last thirty minutes he had cursed the frustrating
necessity of fighting with only one hand. Even the prosthetic would do,
the steel-thewed robot hand that he controlled with his mind. But for
the present he'd have to manage with one hand.

He mounted the stairs and emerged on the fourth floor. An array of
rooms confronted him. Which was Henderson's? He didn't know.

He started to enter one, picking it at random. Then he felt a cold
pressure in the small of his back.

"You can stop right now," a deadly-sounding voice said. "There's a
blaster in your back. Close that door."

Without turning, Thornwald backed up and closed the door.

"Now come with me," the voice said. "I'm taking you to Henderson."

The blaster prodded and he headed down the hall to another door.

"Mr. Henderson?"

"Yeah?" said a voice from within.

"It's me. Leswick. I caught a prowler wandering around up here."

"Right out," Henderson said.

The guard named Leswick prodded the blaster harder into Thornwald's
back. "Mr. Henderson'll take care of you," he said ominously.

The door opened and Henderson stood there. He was a short, pudgy man
with thick jowls and a soft, fleshy pink throat. He was wearing a black
dressing-gown, flaked whitely with dandruff.

"Who are you?" Henderson asked coldly.

"I think he's the cop who landed today," Leswick said. "Didn't they say
he had only one arm?"

"That's the one, all right," Henderson said. He reached out, grabbed
Thornwald by the collar, and yanked him into the room. Covering him
with a blaster, he said, "Go downstairs and get a couple more of the
boys, Leswick. We'll see what we can get out of this fellow."

       *       *       *       *       *

Thornwald glanced up at the trio of uniformed men facing him. "I'm not
saying anything."

"Hit him again," Henderson commanded boredly.

A guard's fist flashed down and smashed into Thornwald's jaw. Thornwald
spat blood and glared defiantly at Henderson.

"What do you expect to get out of me, Henderson?"

The Governor whirled and sneered at him. "You're a cop, aren't you?"

"I was."

"You still are! And you're down here to spy on us! Where's your
transmitter?"

"I don't have any transmitter," Thornwald said. "I was fool enough to
think I'd want to live here. I'm no more a spy than that bookcase is."

"Hit him again," Henderson said. "Give it to him until he tells us
where the transmitter is."

A cascade of blows descended on Thornwald from all three of them. His
head rocked dizzily beneath the assault. He stood it as long as he
could.

Finally, he yelled, "_Okay!_ I'll tell you!"

"Step back and let him talk," Henderson ordered. "All right, Thornwald.
Where's the transmitter?"

"It's ... in ... my ... trunk," he said weakly. "The trunk."

"Go get the trunk," Henderson said to one of the men. "Bring it here."

A few minutes later, the man returned with Thornwald's trunk. "Force it
open," said Henderson. "See if there's a transmitter in there."

The guards cracked the trunk's lock, threw open the lid, and searched
the interior. Thornwald watched impassively as his shirts, tunics,
ties, cloaks came flying out to land in an untidy heap on the floor.

"Well?"

"There's nothing in here but clothes and things," the guard reported.
"And"--he gulped--"there's some kind of _arm_ in there?"

"Arm?" Henderson repeated in surprise.

"It's a man's arm, boss."

"My prosthetic," Thornwald said. "I lost my arm in a space battle."

"And where's the transmitter, then?"

"It's concealed in the arm," Thornwald said.

Henderson frowned. "In the arm? How?"

"Surgically implanted," said Thornwald. "Take a look, if you don't
believe me."

"Give me that arm," said Henderson.

The guard fished the prosthetic reluctantly from the trunk, and,
handling it with the utmost delicacy, carried it over to Henderson. The
Governor took the arm, examined it curiously, flexed the curled fingers.

"Where's the transmitter?" he asked.

Beads of perspiration sprang out on Thornwald's forehead. His neural
network leaped out, made contact with the nerve-mesh of the arm. He was
just five feet away from Henderson. That was close enough to activate
the prosthetic.

_Now!_ he thought.

The arm suddenly came alive in Henderson's hands. Before he could do
anything, the fingers spread, grasped, reached upward, and wrapped
themselves around Henderson's fleshy neck in an iron grip.

       *       *       *       *       *

"That thing's got the chief!"

Thornwald held up his hand. "Tell your men to drop their blasters,
Henderson. I assure you they can't kill me quick enough for me not to
crush your throat with that arm."

Henderson emitted choking, strangling sounds that might almost have
been, "Drop the guns!" The Governor's florid face was bright red, and
where the fingers dug into his throat the skin was a bloodless white.

The three guards looked around in dismay.

"Don't shoot him!" Henderson ordered. "Drop the guns!"

The blasters clattered to the floor. Thornwald picked one up, kicked
the others away into the corner. Henderson remained transfixed in the
center of the room, the bodyless arm clinging to his throat bizarrely.

"Where's your ultrawave radio?" Thornwald asked.

Henderson glared angrily and made no reply. Thornwald smiled
apologetically and tightened his mental grip on the Governor's throat
ever so slightly.

"Where's the ultrawave?" he repeated.

Henderson gestured to a niche in the wall. Warily, Thornwald stepped
over to it. It was an ultrawave, all right. "Back to the wall," he
said. "Okay, you three. If any of you makes a false move while I'm
calling, Henderson dies--and _you'll_ get the arm around your throat
next."

He dialed the radio into operation with the muzzle of the blaster.
There was a crackling sound, and then an operator's voice said, "Yes?"

"I want the Interstellar Police," Thornwald said.

"IP," said a metallic voice a few moments later.

"This is Mac Thornwald, retired captain. You know me?"

"Sure, Mac! What's up?"

"Listen carefully," Thornwald said. "Get a patrol-ship right down here
now--Bleekman's Planet. There's trouble here. It's under control now,
but the planet will need a complete mopup."

"That's the place you were supposed to live, isn't it? The quiet little
secluded planet out in a corner of the galaxy?"

Thornwald smiled grimly. "It'll be that way soon," he said. "Just as
soon as you clean up a bunch of cheap crooks who can't beat a one-armed
man."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BLEEKMAN'S PLANET ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
