ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Thing in the Truck, by Darius John
Granger

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Thing in the Truck

Author: Darius John Granger

Release Date: June 23, 2021 [eBook #65676]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE THING IN THE TRUCK ***





                        The Thing In The Truck

                        By Darius John Granger

               There's nothing peculiar about a load of
            potatoes going to market--but we knew something
            was wrong when the spuds suddenly came to life!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             December 1956
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


It started with a load of potatoes.

Joe Loftus and I were driving the big semi-trailer back from Montauk
that night after delivering a load of fishing gear to one of the big
resorts out there and wondering if we'd be able to pick up a truckload
of anything on the way back to increase the take when Joe spotted this
sign.

It was one of those standard hand-painted _Return Load_ signs, so we
pulled in and I climbed down from the cab while Joe remained behind the
wheel, ready to roll if they had nothing for us.

The sun was going down in a bank of heavy black clouds. I figured it
might rain before the trip was over. I went over to the door of the
farm house and knocked. Pretty soon I heard footsteps inside and a man
chewing a mouthful of his supper opened the door for me. He needed a
shave and he had tired, defeated eyes.

"What's the load, friend," I said. "I saw the sign."

"Potatoes." He named a price.

"Well," I said in surprise. "That's cheap."

"Tell you the truth, bub. They got blasted."

"Blasted? What do you mean?"

"Well, now, it's hard to say. Something fell and hit the storage barn."

"Fell?"

"Fell, bub. A bitty explosion. But nothing much. Maybe seventy percent
of the load is good. The bad ones will be in sacks in the middle. Won't
even know it. What do you say?"

That season potatoes were going good in the wholesale markets around
the city. I figured Joe Loftus and I could clear a neat profit even if
thirty percent of the load was waste. So I agreed to the deal and for
the next hour or so used the muscles of my back along with Joe, the
farmer, and the farmer's two grown boys to load the sacks of potatoes
into the empty van of our big semi-trailer. When he had finished I paid
off the farmer and his wife gave us each a cup of coffee. Then Joe and
I climbed into the cab and we rolled.

"Hear something?" Joe asked about half an hour later.

It was dark by then and traffic on the Montauk Highway was light.
"Potato sacks shifting around," I said. "We didn't pack 'em too good, I
guess."

The noise came again. Maybe it didn't really sound like sacks shifting
around in the van. I don't know. I was in a hurry to get home. It had
been a long day.

I was driving. Joe squirmed around and peered through the rear window
of the cab but could see nothing. "Stop the truck," he said.

"What for?"

"'Cause I don't like that noise. Something's going on back there."

"Sure," I said, grinning, "our farmer's a shrewdie. His boys are back
there and they're eating up all the potatoes."

"Very funny. Just stop the damn truck."

I turned my head and looked at Joe's face. He was scared. Maybe he
had one of those premonitions you read about. I shrugged and found a
widened stretch of road shoulder and pulled the big semi up. Joe hopped
out of the cab and went around back. After a while I heard the rear
doors swing open. Then they closed again and Joe came back. I hadn't
heard him stomping around inside the van or anything.

"Sacks shifting around like I said?" I asked.

Joe's face was white in the dash light. He shook his head.

"Harry," he said. That's my name. Harry. "Harry, we was tricked."

"What do you mean, tricked?" I was getting a little annoyed with Joe.
He stood half in and half out of the cab. I wanted to get moving.

"Ain't no potatoes," Joe said.

"No potatoes? What the hell are you talking about? We loaded those
spuds ourselves."

"Ain't no potatoes," Joe repeated in a funny voice. "Harry, listen.
Let's just leave the load and truck and everything and get the hell out
of here."

       *       *       *       *       *

I looked at him and snorted, then swung out of the cab on my side and
went around back. I undid the chain and the door-bar and pulled the
tongue down so I could open the rear doors. Then I swung up into the
van in the darkness.

There was a smell in there. Not a potato smell. To this day I still
can't say what it was. But it was a funny smell and it made the short
hairs on the back of my neck feel all cold and prickly-like.

I lit a match and swore. Joe was right. There just weren't any
potatoes, I don't care _who_ loaded them.

But there _was_ something back there.

Call it jelly, if you want. I saw it and I can't do better. Say, two or
three tons of quivering jelly filling up the center of the floor of the
van.

Joe called: "Well?"

I was carrying a lighted match into the van with me. It burned my
fingers. I lit another one and slowly approached the jelly. It didn't
seem to have any color, so it took on the orange glowing color of
the flaming match. It pulsed. I went near it, then stopped. There
were still a few potatoes on the floor of the van, after all. I stood
by while the jelly rolled sluggishly toward them. The potatoes were
enveloped. In a minute there weren't any potatoes.

Then the jelly-thing stopped quivering. I came close and touched it
gingerly with one finger. It burned. I withdrew my hand.

"Harry?" Joe called.

Just then I heard the sound of glass breaking. A section of the jelly
had blubbered over against the van's small front window, smashing it. I
didn't think a soft jelly would have the strength.

"Harry!" Joe shouted. It was like a shout of animal fear. I heard the
sound of more glass breaking. The rear window of the cab, I thought. I
hopped over the rear tongue of the van and sped around to the cab.

Joe was sitting there, smoking a cigarette.

"What's the matter?" I asked him. "What happened?"

"Nothing's the matter," he said. "You want to drive or want me to
drive?"

"You just now yelled."

"Me? You sure I yelled, Harry?"

A car sped by, following its headlight beams. "Window's broke," I said.

"Is it?" Joe Loftus asked me in mild surprise. "Is it now? That's what
you get for trying to shift those potatoes around in the middle of the
trip."

"Potatoes!" I yelled.

"Hell, yeah. Potatoes. Hey, what's the matter with you, anyhow?"

"Potatoes," I said. "All right, so go take a look."

Joe scowled but went. In a little while I heard the tongue and doors
slamming and the chain being dragged across. Joe came back and gave me
a long funny look. "Yeah, potatoes," he said.

I didn't push it. We'd been on the road a long time today. Sometimes
the road can get to you like that. Maybe you read something about
highway hypnotism. If you're driving too long on a good road like the
Montauk Highway or one of the throughways, after a while you get to see
things which aren't there or don't see things which are there. It can
be plenty trouble but it wasn't going to hurt me tonight if I imagined
a return load of Long Island potatoes was a big glob of jelly.

I scratched my head. "Highway's got you, huh?" Joe said. He knew the
symptoms. "Tell you what, Harry? Why don't you sleep it off? I feel
pretty good. I can take her in."

I thanked Joe and climbed up on the slab bunk in the rear of the cab.
The window was broken back there, all right. You couldn't argue about
that. But it was too dark to see into the van, except that I could see
the van window was likewise shattered. I drifted off sleepily, not
thinking about it much. Joe was a good driver, one of the best. Maybe
when I opened my eyes we'd be in the city, heading for one of the big
wholesale produce markets....

       *       *       *       *       *

It was raining when I awoke. Thunder rolled and rumbled and then split
like a pine board overhead. Lightning was stabbing at the sky.

"Joe?" I said, sleepily.

He grunted a wordless answer.

"We near the city yet?"

"You only slept maybe half an hour, chum. Why don't you catch another
forty?"

I said: "That's real white of you, pal."

Joe grunted again.

The truck lurched around a turn. The rain beat down. I opened my eyes
and looked down past Joe's head. Just then a flash of lightning lit up
the night. I caught a glimpse of a narrow two-lane asphalt road and
stunted scrub pine growing in what looked like sandy ground.

"Hey!" I shouted. "This isn't the Montauk Highway. This isn't the way
back. What's going on?"

"Just get some sleep, will you?" Joe said. "Detour back there."

"Wasn't any detour when we came out."

"Well, there's a detour now."

I was wide awake. I didn't like the way Joe sounded. "Listen," I said.
"The road's fine. There wasn't anything wrong with the road. So why the
detour?"

"Flash flood, I guess."

"It's raining. But it hasn't been raining that long and it isn't
raining that hard."

"So I'm not the highway commission," Joe said. "Now get some sleep,
will you?"

It was this on top of what I'd thought had happened to the potatoes.
Something was up, I didn't know what. Funny how sometimes a thing like
that doesn't get to you at first. What had the farmer said? Something
fell on his load of potatoes. Fell? I thought now. From where? And
hadn't he said something about a little explosion? Ten hours on the
road, I thought. Ten hours on the road or we'd have asked him sure.

"Hey, Joe," I called down from the bunk. "When do we cut back West?"

"Soon as there's a road."

But soon a crossroad flashed by, dimly seen by the glow of distant
lightning. Joe's face was set. He didn't look at me.

"Joe," I said. "Stop the truck."

"What's the matter now?"

"I want to check the potatoes," I said. "You know the lock bar isn't
what it should be. Don't want to lose the load, do you?"

"I thought you said it wasn't a load of potatoes?"

"Highway hypnotism," I said. "I'll take your word for it. Hell, I
loaded them, didn't I?"

"You loaded them," Joe said, slowing the truck. I didn't really know
what I wanted to do. I'd look inside the van, sure. If it had been
highway hypnotism, I'd know it now. Because the illusion wouldn't last.
They never do. But after that? After that I hadn't figured yet. Joe was
acting funny. Real funny.

The truck stopped. I went around back in the hard, driving rain. It
was an unfamiliar road, but the kind you find all up and down the East
Coast near the ocean, with scrubby growths of pine on either side in
sandy soil and no sign of civilization except the marching files of
telephone poles. I pulled out the lock bar and swung down the tongue
and opened the back doors.

Just then the truck growled to life. The rear tires spun and whined
and threw pebbles at me. The truck lurched forward. I lunged after it,
grabbing the swinging lock-chain and pulling myself up on the tongue.
My right foot scraped along the ground and for a minute I thought I
was going to lose my hold and fall off. But slowly I pulled myself up
while the rain beat down on me. I tried to keep it quiet. As far as I
knew, Joe thought he left me back there. That crazy Joe, I told myself,
climbing into the van. The rear doors swung in the wind, banging
against the frame. Joe must have known I had opened them. He didn't
seem to care. He was like a crazy man up there. We didn't work for any
trucking company. This truck was ours. With what we made on it we hoped
to buy another before long and start a fleet. Joe and Harry, trucking.
But Joe was up there in the cab, acting like a crazy man, and I was
back here in the van--with what?

       *       *       *       *       *

I listened. Nothing but the sound of the motor and the rain outside.
I sniffed. That odd smell was gone. I fumbled for my matches and
scratched one against the flint. It made a faint sodden sound and
I thought I wasn't going to have any luck. But just then the match
spluttered and flared and caught.

There were no potatoes. There wasn't any glob of jelly.

"Come on in away from the rain. Come over to me, Harry, honey," she
said.

I dropped the match and it went out. It was a woman. There was a lovely
blonde-haired woman in the van there. She had been dressed up like for
a party, at least in the little I saw of her I thought that was the way
she was dressed. And she was absolutely dry, as if she hadn't somehow
come in out of the rain or anything.

"Come on, Harry," she called in a seductive voice. "I'm waiting, Harry."

I walked stiffly into the van. Well, I'm human, aren't I?

I was fumbling again with the matches. I had to see her once more. If
this was highway hypnotism, I was all for it. In the light of the first
match she'd been beautiful. I struck the second match but the head
crumbled wetly. I tossed it away irritably and was about to strike a
third when her hand touched me. "Harry," she said. "Harry."

I never did get her name. What the hell, it didn't matter. She was
only there for one purpose. Probably she didn't even have a name. She
didn't need one. There was no before and no after for her. Only the
all-containing now and a guy named Harry Miller.

"Do you like me, Harry?" she asked.

She came against me, softly firm and straining. She had a strong, musky
perfume on her. Her hair touched my face and her voice whispered in my
ear.

"Desire me," she said. "Do you desire me?"

Damn fool question, I thought without pushing it. Hell, yes, I desired
her. Who the hell wouldn't?

Outside, the rain drummed down. In the cab, Joe gunned the motor. I
kissed the girl in the van and she returned my kiss hotly, avidly.
"Harry," she said. I folded her in my arms and sat down on the floor
of the van. The truck lurched and something rolled against my leg. I
reached down with one hand. The woman sensed this. Her warm fingers
touched my arm as she tried to draw my hand back. But I found what had
rolled against my leg anyway. It was a potato. It was what should have
been back there in the van in the first place, no lump of glob and no
beautiful dame, just a return load of Long Island potatoes for market.
I pushed the woman away from me and stood up, holding the potato like
it was a talisman.

"Harry?" she cried, hurt in her voice. "What is it? What's the matter?"

I didn't answer her. I walked to the rear of the van and looked out.
It was dark out there. The rain came down in a heavy, faintly silver
curtain. After a while lightning lit the sky and I saw the road was
running parallel to the ocean now. I figured we were somewhere not too
far from Riverhead. Probably south and a little west of Riverhead, down
by the water. But why? Why?

       *       *       *       *       *

Ten minutes later, the big truck rolled to a stop. I jumped down from
the van and sped around to the cab, slipping on wet sand. There was
a salt spray with the wind-driven rain in the air, and I smelled the
sea. I thought I could make out the gleam of the breakers through
the darkness, but it might have been my imagination. I did hear the
pounding roar of the surf, though.

I saw Joe's dark bulk getting down from the cab just as I reached it.
"Are you gonna be any trouble, boy?" Joe asked me.

"Trouble?" I repeated his word. "What are you doing? What did you drive
here for, Joe?"

He didn't answer. He went around to the van and helped the woman down.
She said something and it almost sounded like she was crying. "Take it
easy, baby," he told her. "It won't be long now."

The rain poured down, drenching all of us. The surf roared and hissed
and boomed across the beach.

"Hey, where are you going!" I shouted. They were heading down across
the sand.

They didn't answer. I could stay with the truck. I could pull the truck
out of there. Or I could follow them and see what the hell was going on.

But just then Joe came back from the beach. I couldn't see his face,
but his voice sounded odd. "You better come down with us, Harry," he
said. "She figures you know too much. I figure she's right."

We stood very close. In the dimness I could barely make out the big
monkey wrench in Joe's hand. If I said no, he'd bop me one with the
wrench. If I said yes and went down there with him, would he use the
wrench on me later? It didn't look as if I had much choice. I went down
across the sand with Joe.

The woman was waiting for us at the water's edge. The breakers were
faintly phosphorescent with glowing plankton and I could see the
outline of the woman's figure against them. Then Joe's bulky silhouette
came between us. I stood there and stared out across the black sea.

Neither of them paid any attention to me. The breakers broke and foamed
and rolled themselves out on the sand. The tide was coming in. The wind
blew spray.

"You're waiting for something, aren't you?" I asked. It was a dumb
question. They weren't down here for their health.

"Something coming in from the water?" I guessed. "Submarine, maybe?"

Joe said: "We're not waiting for something coming in from the water."

The woman said: "Don't tell him, Joe."

Joe said: "Funny, you calling me Joe. Still calling me Joe."

The woman: "You're Joe. You're Joe until we leave."

Joe: "Yeah, but it's funny."

The woman: "I hear something, Joe."

Joe: "No. It's the wind."

The woman: "Will it be soon?"

Joe: "Yeah, soon. What we gonna do with him? With Harry?"

"He knows too much," the woman said, "but does it really matter?"

They were talking about me as if I wasn't there. Or like two grown
people will talk about a little child in his presence, or maybe even
like two people will talk about a dog, right in front of the dog,
feeding the dog a juicy bone, maybe--the day before they take it down
to the pound.

They stopped talking. They stood there, waiting. After another twenty
minutes or so, I began to hear something. Maybe they were listening too
hard. Anyhow, I heard it first. A distant hissing sound. Before I knew
it the sky had begun to grow brighter.

"Joe!" the woman cried happily. "Listen!"

"Yeah, and look at it," Joe said.

They ran by me, not down toward the water but back up the beach toward
the truck. "Wait a minute, baby," Joe called. "You can't go near it til
the changeover. The heat...."

I whirled and followed them. I saw it as soon as I turned, but I
couldn't believe my eyes. It was why they had come down to the water's
edge. It was why Joe had picked out the untraveled road. I gawked.

The big truck was glowing.

Not burning, not on fire--but glowing. As if it had suddenly gone
phosphorescent--say, a million times more so than the plankton-glowing
surf. It stood out as clear as day.

Joe and the woman stood between the glowing truck and me, standing hand
in hand, watching it, waiting.

The truck changed.

       *       *       *       *       *

It wasn't highway hypnotism. Too much had happened. Too much still
would happen. The square lines of the truck were flowing, shifting,
coalescing, like a slow fade on the TV, as one scene shifts slowly into
another. The glowing truck flowed and altered and--wasn't a truck any
longer.

"Take him with us!" Joe said suddenly.

The woman grabbed my arm. I pulled loose from her and she started to
yell. She came after me, throwing herself on my back. I was plenty
scared by what I had seen, and I wasn't having any, not if I could help
it. I threw the woman off my back and she fell away yelling into the
rain, but Joe came after me with the wrench. I stumbled and fell just
as Joe swung the big wrench. It thudded in the sand half a foot from my
face and I got up and started running.

Joe threw the heavy wrench this time and it hit the small of my back,
driving me down to my knees. Joe came after me, kneeing my face as I
swung around and tried to get up. I flipped over but grabbed his foot
as he tried to stamp it down on me. He didn't know what he wanted, that
boy. I guess if he couldn't take me with him, he was going to try and
kill me. I twisted his leg and he yowled and fell down on top of me and
we rolled over and over in the sand, clawing for each other's throat.

The woman was yelling something but I didn't hear what it was and I'm
sure Joe didn't either. We were both breathing raggedly and swinging
without much force at each other now. Call it almost a draw--except I
was fighting for my life and I knew Joe had an ally in the woman. I
climbed to my feet slowly, unsteadily, and found the monkey wrench on
the ground. I wielded it, shaking it in Joe's face.

I said: "You can do what you want. I won't stop you. But just leave me
the hell out of it."

All of a sudden something struck my back. It was the woman, trying to
knock me over from behind. I whirled and she backed out of my reach,
but then Joe was on his feet again and when I turned to face him she
clawed at my back. "Kill him, Joe!" she cried. "Kill him now!"

Joe came for me. He didn't pay any attention to the monkey wrench in
my hand. He lunged at me and I took a swat in his direction with the
wrench. We both missed but Joe was still half out on his feet. He
stumbled past me and I turned and shoved him. He struck the woman and
they both went down.

"Joe," the woman said. "Joe! It's starting."

She meant the truck. Or what had been the truck. It was a gleaming
silver globe now, and something was hissing at the bottom of it. I
didn't know what it was, but they knew. I didn't know it then, but I
had won. I'd delayed them past the point where they could take me with
them by force or kill me. They had to hurry.

I wasn't going to stop them. I stood there, hurting all over, and
watched them run for the thing which had been the truck. It was still
glowing, but the glow was fading. A hole seemed to open in its side for
them, but then suddenly the glow became so bright that I couldn't see
anything but the dazzling light.

Which--slowly but with increasing speed--rose into the rain and the
night.

On a pillar of flame.

I blinked. I smelled ozone. The sphere was gone, but there was an
afterglow in the sky.

Numbly I walked over to where the truck--then the sphere--had been.

I found Joe. Or what was left of Joe. It was a dry husk of a body,
hardly recognizable, as if some great power had taken Joe and twisted
him while an enormous heat had dried all the moisture from his body
without burning the skin.

I never found the woman. Instead, there were a few hundred dry husky
things near Joe. I didn't recognize them at first, and when I did I
suddenly got hysterical and ran. I couldn't figure it out then, and I
still can't although I've tried to.

The husky things were burned potatoes. Next to Joe. Where the woman had
been. But the way I figure it, they went up there. Both of them....

       *       *       *       *       *

The police gave me a rough time but eventually let me go. What happened
to Joe could have been the result of lightning. Lightning, they said,
can do funny things. Nobody ever found the truck. I could have told
them that. It had gone--up there.

Home?

I did some investigating. There'd been a meteor fall two days before we
picked up the load of potatoes. I saw the farmer and asked him about
the meteors. But he merely insisted--vague as before--that something
had fallen into his barn, through the roof, from the sky.

Figure it got among the potatoes. A sentience of some kind. Figure it
was sleeping. Figure the motion of the truck stirred it to life. Figure
it could--well, take over things. Like the potatoes. It became the
girl, to keep me busy. Like Joe. It took over Joe so it could drive off
on the deserted beach. Like the truck. It took over--and changed the
truck into a, well, something--so it could get back where it started
from. Me? I must have been immune.

Or am I? Because a few minutes ago something crashed through the roof
of my new truck, into the van. I don't know what, but I'm afraid to go
look. What would you do?

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE THING IN THE TRUCK ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
