ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of World of the Hunter, by C. H. Thames

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: World of the Hunter

Author: C. H. Thames

Release Date: June 29, 2021 [eBook #65730]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WORLD OF THE HUNTER ***




                          World Of The Hunter

                            By C. H. Thames

               Mulveen had come to Earth for a big-game
            thrill; it was up to Gilbert to provide it for
            him--even if he had to let himself be stalked!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             October 1956
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"Gun, boy!" Mulveen cried.

The big saurian--a thirty-tonner, at least--came splashing and
bellowing out of the swamp. Gilbert quickly brought up the archaic
Earth rifle, ramming a shell into the breech with the bolt-action
loader. With almost the same motion he thrust the big, capable weapon
into Mulveen's waiting hands and the hunter brought it to his shoulder
without a moment to spare.

Actually, it was an adapted old big-game rifle: the shells it fired
were atomic. Standing his ground weaponless, Gilbert saw Mulveen's
finger whiten on the trigger, saw the scale-hided saurian grow
immensely before them, heard its surprisingly high piping challenge,
then saw and heard in one quick flash of suspended time the roar and
smoke of the big rifle and the sudden life-ending, sleek-scaled,
column-legged death-rearing of the big saurian as it came upright, the
piping a high death scream now, the small forelimbs tearing at air, the
head with the very tiny hole between the eyes swaying as if drunk from
side to side, the long, muscular, five-ton tail still thrashing in the
swamp waters.

Then the saurian came down, crashing through the brakes. There was only
a trickle of blood, but the bullet, like a Dum-Dum of three hundred
years before, had exploded inside the monster's head, the minute atomic
charge destroying everything within the thick bone walls of the skull
but leaving skull and metal-tough skin intact.

Time flowed again. Mulveen returned the rifle to Gilbert and waded
forward through the brackish water, his hipboots glistening.

"Beauty, isn't it?" Gilbert said with feigned professional enthusiasm
Mulveen needed the enthusiasm: the big humanoid from the Sirian system
had been a grumpy, fussy, dissatisfied hunter throughout the safari.

"Don't try and dun me for a tip," Mulveen snapped. "You get paid
whatever the Earth company pays you." He was a big, bald man with a
florid face, an amazing girth of shoulders, a barrel chest and almost
pipe-stem legs which seemed barely able to support his weight.

He reached the saurian's five-foot-long head and walked around it,
muttering to himself. It was a prize specimen: a faudi reptile from
Epsilon Aurigae III, bred here on Earth in the huge, planet-wide
game-farm. It was the sort of specimen a big-game hunter would give his
proverbial eyeteeth to own, but Mulveen did not look happy. He merely
said:

"So this is a faudi."

"Want me to prepare the skull, sir?" Gilbert asked. Gilbert was
eighteen, one of the youngest guides in the game area known as
Lewsanna. His father had been a guide for the hunters from the
outworlds, and his father's father. His father had died tracking: it
was a good, clean death and Gilbert's father had never known poverty.
That was the most an Earthman could expect, Gilbert thought without
bitterness. For civilization had left Earth behind. Earth was in the
backwaters of galactic trade. Earth was a game-preserve, with the
great beasts of five dozen worlds brought to it and bred here for the
hunters. It figured, naturally: you couldn't deny it. The outworlds
were new; they were built as twenty-fourth century worlds should be
built. Earth had been a world of ancient cities and meaningless ancient
traditions. Earth was the logical place for the game-farm. Earth, once
the parent of all the galactic planets, reduced to a vacation spot for
the very rich and the foolhardy....

"No," Mulveen said shortly. "Don't prepare the skull. I don't want the
skull."

"But--"

"Forget it, kid! I've hunted everywhere, wherever there's hunting
left on the outworlds. When I grew jaded, they said come to Earth.
Earth will be different, a hunter's paradise. You know what? It isn't
different. It's the same."

"If you--"

"You wouldn't understand kid. Well, let's go back to camp."

"The trophy--" Gilbert began.

"Forget about the trophy, damnit!"

Gilbert followed Mulveen in silence to camp. The beaters and camp-boys
had the evening meal prepared. The sun went down over the swamplands.
Gilbert ate alone. He was a cut above the beaters and camp-boys, who
had willingly surrendered their civilized birthright, but he was
several cuts above the hunter from the Sirian System.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mulveen drank heavily after dinner. Gilbert watched, not caring.
Of course, that might make it dangerous when they hunted tomorrow:
Mulveen's reflexes might be slower. Well, it had happened before.

"Boy!" Mulveen shouted, his voice thick with alcohol.

Gilbert trotted up obediently. "Sir?"

Mulveen smiled at him. "How would you like to earn five thousand
credits?"

The answer was obvious: Gilbert made fifty credits a safari and
sometimes went on as many as eight a year. Tips might bring the figure
to an even five hundred credits a year. The figure Mulveen had named
was ten year's work.

"I'm listening," Gilbert said.

Mulveen paced back and forth. Something had gotten to him. Hunters were
like that, Gilbert knew. They were capable of being possessed by an
idea--to the exclusion of all else. Gilbert had known hunters who, so
possessed, had crossed a dozen light years.

"This planet," Mulveen said, "is real jerkwater, isn't it?"

"If you mean what I think, yes."

"What kind of law do you have?"

"Only what we need. It doesn't apply to extra-terrestrials."

"I thought so. Then an extra-terrestrial can commit any crime, any
crime at all?"

Gilbert smiled grimly. "The Earth government--such as it is--considers
extra-terrestrials too civilized to commit crimes. Also,
extra-terrestrial hunters are responsible for most of Earth's income.
This is a poor planet, Mr. Mulveen: civilization and then the attempt
to keep up with civilization, has drained it."

"You know a lot for a kid."

"But that isn't what I'm getting five thousand credits for."

"Here," Mulveen said. He gave Gilbert one of the rifles, which had been
cleaned during supper by the boys. He gave Gilbert a cartridge belt.
"Here."

"I don't get it," Gilbert said.

"If no game on Earth holds a thrill for me, no game anywhere in the
galaxy will. The five thousand is yours if you do."

Mulveen took another drink, poured again, drank again, poured....

"If I do what?"

"Get out of camp," Mulveen said. "I'll come for you in the morning."

"Come for me...?"

"Come hunting, Gilbert. I've never hunted a human being before. On
Earth I think I can get away with it. Well, can't I?"

Gilbert felt his pulses hammering. It was a drunken impulse, but
Mulveen would go through with it. Gilbert was, despite his age, an
expert guide. Mulveen was a crack hunter. Five thousand credits....

"To the death?" Gilbert asked.

"I wouldn't be playing games. Hell, yes."

"What if I get killed?"

"I'll put it in writing. The credits go to whatever person you name, in
the event of your death."

Gilbert thought, _if I'm dead I won't need the credits, but if I live,
if I win, those credits can buy me a new way of life...._

Five thousand credits....

"Can I fight back?" Gilbert heard himself asking.

"Does an animal? Of course you can. I'll also put in writing that
you're not responsible in the event of my death. What do you say, boy?
What do you say?"

The swamp smell was thick on the still, heavy air of night. Insects
buzzed and sawed off in the darkness. Mulveen was breathing heavily,
impatiently, consumed by the fires of his idea. "Well?"

Gilbert broke the silence by holding the rifle up to the firelight and
bolting open the chamber. A fresh clip of ammo was in place.

"Didn't trust me?" Mulveen asked.

"Should I have?"

"Up to this minute, sure. But if your answer is yes, stop trusting me
about anything. Because then you're on your own."

"For how long?" Gilbert asked. "A day?"

"Day, hell. Till I get you--or you get me."

"And you'll have the beaters, the boys?"

"I paid for them, didn't I?"

Gilbert nodded. The night beckoned. He took his rifle and left camp.
Mulveen wrote the agreement.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had not gone very far until he realized he was being followed.
Already? he thought. He slipped silently off the trail and waited in
the hot, sweat-producing darkness. Footsteps came along the trail.
Gilbert saw a shadowy figure. Too small for Mulveen.

Gilbert waited until the figure was abreast of him, then leaped.

They went down together in the mud. Gilbert's strong young muscles soon
bested his opponent. He sat astride the unseen enemy's middle, his
fists raised. "Surrender," he said.

"I surrender." Gilbert recognized Wenzi's voice. Wenzi was one of the
beaters, an aloofly quiet boy who had kept to himself all during the
safari, and who, Gilbert remembered, wore far too much clothing for the
warm, sticky weather.

Gilbert got up, holding Wenzi's elbow. Wenzi said, "I heard what the
master and you said. I came."

"But why?" Gilbert demanded. "Don't tell me you think I'll beat
Mulveen?"

"No," said Wenzi glumly. "Mulveen will win. But I was afraid."

"Of what?"

"Before the hunt this morning," Wenzi said, "I went down to the stream
to wash. I went alone."

"You always go alone," Gilbert said. "Sweating in your trousers and
shirt no matter how hot it is."

"I have to," said Wenzi.

"Have to?"

"Mulveen must have been suspicious. He followed me this morning. He
saw. Tonight, he said. Tonight, Wenzi. I had to come after you,
Gilbert."

"Tonight? Tonight what?"

"Mulveen saw me at the stream. This is a good way to make a living,
Gilbert. Better than the other ways which are open to me. It is clean.
It is decent, if degrading. I am a girl, Gilbert."

The news stunned him. A girl on safari--it was unthinkable. A girl,
here....

"But don't you have a family? A father or brother to provide for you?"

"No one. And I'm seventeen."

Seventeen. Wenzi, by modern Earth standards gone primitive, was a woman.

Suddenly Gilbert tensed. He had heard something, a slight stirring in
the dark swamp. Had Wenzi been followed? Had this whole thing been
elaborately planned by Mulveen, planned already in the morning, giving
Wenzi a reason to flee so that Wenzi would flee to Gilbert at night and
Gilbert would be caught and killed, legitimate quarry now, even before
morning came?

Gilbert touched Wenzi's lips with his fingers, hoping she would
understand. He took her arm and led her silently from the swamp-trail.

They waited in among the wet creepers and tree-roots. Gilbert could
feel Wenzi's frightened breathing as she leaned close to him. Whatever
was pursuing them came on through the swamp. Once it floundered off the
trail in darkness, splashing. It came on again. It paused, making a
sniffing sound. An animal? A swamp-hog, perhaps? It sounded about the
right size and bulk--but so would a man....

Gilbert brought the rifle up. A dark shadow stirred. "Stop!" Gilbert
commanded. "You're in my sights. I can kill you."

"Gil!" a voice implored.

Gilbert dropped the rifle and let it swing on the shoulder thong.

"Arnaud," he said. "I could have shot you." Arnaud was the safari's
chief beater and second in command to Gilbert.

"Mulveen told me what he was doing," Arnaud said. "I slipped out of
camp."

"Why? You think Mulveen's going to lose?"

"With a dozen boys? No, I couldn't help him hunt you and kill you,
that's all."

Arnaud touched his hand. They shook hands solemnly. It was an old
gesture which Earthmen had never lost. Gilbert told Arnaud Wenzi was
there, told Arnaud Wenzi was a girl.

"So there are three of us now," Arnaud said.

Gilbert nodded, then realized the gesture was lost in darkness. He
said, aloud, "We'd better put some distance between us and the camp."

They returned to the trail, plodded through the hot darkness. They
walked for three hours and reached high ground as Gilbert had expected.
"We can sleep here," he said. "But we'll have to be up before the sun.
And we'll have to hunt for our food, too. Mulveen has provisions."

"Do you hate Mulveen?" Wenzi asked.

"For his proposition? No, why should I?"

"For his arrogance--"

"He is an outworlder," Arnaud said.

"For what he wanted of you," Gilbert told Wenzi, "yes. But only for
that."

"Do you have any plans?" Arnaud asked as they settled on the hillock.

Gilbert thought about it. They would need a plan, all right. It was
what the animals of Earth lacked. The ability to plan, to rationally
pursue their survival. And so the animals of Earth never had a chance.

"Mulveen will probably stalk us in the morning," Gilbert said. "We'll
have to move fast. We'll be able to move faster than Mulveen because
he'll be tracking us. We can circle around behind him--while he still
believes himself behind us."

"It might work," Wenzi said, but not too optimistically.

"I don't see how it can miss!" Arnaud declared jubilantly. "Now let's
get some sleep."

Gilbert was tired all at once. He felt the fatigue crawl through his
muscles, dull his senses. He'd been on the go all day, and walking half
the night. He drifted quickly into sleep and dreamed of a faudi reptile
with the face of the hunter Mulveen, chasing them with tail-supported
forty yard leaps....

       *       *       *       *       *

He awoke in dim light. Like any experienced hunter, he awoke knowing
exactly where he was and what was happening. The first thing he did was
reach for his rifle. He had placed it at his side.

It was gone.

"Wenzi?" he called. No answer.

"Arnaud?" Silence.

"Wenzi! Arnaud!" he shouted. He stood up quickly. He had the hillock of
high, dry ground all to himself.

Distantly, he heard a scream. Wenzi's voice? he thought it was.

"Wenzi!" he shouted again, at the top of his voice.

The scream was faint. She might have been calling his name. It might
have been pure terror.

Arnaud, he thought. Arnaud has taken Wenzi. But why? Why? He was only a
tracker, a beater. He couldn't provide for her. He wouldn't dare ravish
her, for while there was no penalty for an outworlder, the penalty for
an Earthman was severe.

Mulveen, he thought.

Mulveen's idea. Arnaud had never left Mulveen. Arnaud had come
following Gilbert--as Mulveen's man. Mulveen knew Wenzi was gone.
Mulveen reasoned she had gone to Gilbert, further reasoned that Gilbert
would protect her. Mulveen had sent Arnaud for her. And for Gilbert's
rifle.

Gilbert was weaponless.

Five thousand credits, he thought. And my life.

Wenzi--in Mulveen's possession. Or, in his possession when the traitor
Arnaud brought her back to camp.

I can forget about her. I don't know her. Until last night I thought
she was a boy, he told himself. I can flee and find a weapon somewhere.

Even while he told himself this, he was walking back along the trail.
Wenzi had trusted him. Wenzi had fled to him at once. She had faith
in him. A blind, almost childish faith, even if she hadn't put it in
words. She had come, and that was enough.

For the first time in his life, Gilbert felt anger. And a burning,
consuming hate.

He loped with ground-consuming strides along the trail.

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later, he heard the beaters. They were coming. They were coming
for him.

They could have waited. But Mulveen was trying everything. Throw the
works if you could, that's what the guides always said. Mulveen had
Wenzi. It was a kind of bait and Gilbert might or might not rise to it.
So the beaters were coming through the swamp.

Beaters. Yesterday, his men. Now, he was their quarry.

He crouched. In a moment he became part of the jungle, a shadow barely
seen in the dim swamp, insubstantial, soundless. The beaters came on.
If he were hunting a man-sized and weaponless animal, Gilbert thought,
he would send the beaters through with staves and machetes....

He watched them come. He could name them, they came so close. They
beat the undergrowth and the hanging creepers, vines and lianas with
their clubs. Here and there he caught the gleam of a machete blade.
If they spotted him they would make a rush, cutting off his retreat,
surrounding him on three sides and forcing him back along the trail
toward where Mulveen was waiting, probably in a comfortable blind, with
an atomic rifle.

Unless, right now, Mulveen was too busy with Wenzi....

No, he told himself. It wouldn't be that way. Mulveen would want his
triumph first. Wenzi would wait, a prisoner, for nightfall. But could
he be sure?

The beaters went by, advancing through the swamp. One came so close,
Gilbert could have reached out and touched him.

Gilbert stood up, stretching his stiff muscles. He waited an agonizing
five more minutes, then set out along the trail.

A laggard beater materialized abruptly in his path. The machete blurred
overhead, blade gleaming. The man's face showed recognition, but
neither pity nor regret. He wouldn't kill Gilbert, naturally. He wanted
Gilbert to run--back toward Mulveen.

Gilbert ducked under the upswinging arm. He drove his shoulder into
the beater's midsection and felt the hard wall of muscle hold for a
split-second, then yield. The beater jackknifed over. Gilbert let
himself drop, grasped the beater's ankles and heaved. The beater
sailed, yelling, over his head. The beater landed face-first in the
swamp and Gilbert dove after him. He found the machete-haft, twisted.
The big-bladed weapon came free in his hand, but the beater lifted his
head from the mud and cried:

"Mulveen! Mulveen, sir! Mulveen!"

Gilbert struck with the side of the machete blade, using it as a club.
The beater subsided face-down in the mud. Gilbert looked down at him,
then scowled and turned him face-up in the swamp so he wouldn't drown.

Just then Mulveen's rifle cracked. The swamp-water swallowed the flat
sound: there was no echo.

Mulveen heard the cry--he was close. Perhaps close enough to see the
white sheen of frothing water where the beater had fallen....

Quickly Gilbert slipped with his machete among the mangrove roots. He
made his way through the thick tangle of gnarled roots and the slime of
the swamp back in the direction from which the beater had come. Behind
him he heard the clubs and machetes of the other beaters, returning now
toward the rifle fire.

Up ahead somewhere unseen in the swamp Mulveen was waiting with his
atomic rifle. Behind Gilbert, the beaters were coming.

Wenzi screamed, close by. With Mulveen? Gilbert crashed through the
mangroves in that direction. Mulveen would hear him--but wouldn't see
him. The mangroves were a thick tangle of twisted trunks and roots.
Mulveen would have no chance for a clear shot until almost the last
moment.

Suddenly, Gilbert stopped dead in his tracks. Wenzi--was she part
of it? She could have fled to him, pretending. She could have been
in league with Arnaud and Mulveen. There was no reason to believe
otherwise. The trackers and beaters knew no loyalties. They were hardly
more than animals. But somehow, Wenzi seemed different. As Gilbert
thought himself different.

The thoughts raced through his mind. There were the continents of
Earth, but the continents were game-reserves. The men were hardly more
than game themselves. But there were the offshore islands, which had
not been stocked with animals. It was rumored that another brand of men
lived there, men who had fled from the continents, men determined to
preserve their heritage and one day when they were strong enough return
with it to the mainlands....

With his five thousand credits, Gilbert could buy a boat, sail to the
islands....

Wenzi screamed again.

Mulveen's rifle roared. He was closer now. Wood splintered from the
mangrove roots, peppering Gilbert. Heedless, he plunged on, impelled
by the shouts of the beaters behind him. Grimly he thought: I'm giving
Mulveen his money's worth. But that wasn't quite true. Mulveen would
not really get his money's worth until Gilbert was dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rifle roared again and Gilbert thought he saw the muzzle-flash up
ahead in the dark swamp. He ran splashing through the water and felt
the spray as the rifle spoke once more. The minute atomic explosion
went off in the water not ten yards from Gilbert. The concussion
staggered him and he fell forward on his face, his head striking a
mangrove root jarringly.

His senses swam. He heard a splashing, floundering sound. Mulveen.
Mulveen was coming for him. He ducked behind a mangrove, waiting.
Miraculously he still held the machete. He felt blood on his shoulder
and chest, realized that he had probably fallen sideways across the
blade.

Wenzi and Mulveen came through the swamp. Wenzi was in front. They were
so close that Gilbert could see how the girl's hands were secured
behind her back, how Mulveen held a trailing rope, how the trailing
rope was wrapped around Mulveen's thick waist so he could drop it when
he had to and lift his rifle in both hands....

Gilbert came charging at them with his machete. With one swift stroke
he parted the rope and shouted: "Run, Wenzi! Run!"

The rifle-muzzle came up. Gilbert dove face-down as the weapon roared.
He felt the fierce blast of it, then was clawing through the mud at
Mulveen's legs. Mulveen brought the rifle-butt crashing down. It jarred
against Gilbert's shoulder, pushing him down into the water. He felt
the machete drop from his fingers and from what seemed a long way off
he heard Wenzi's scream although he was aware that the girl had not
moved, was standing there awaiting the outcome.

The rifle pointed down at him. He reached up, tugging at the muzzle,
pulling himself upright. Mulveen stumbled, cursing. Gilbert pulled the
rifle-barrel into the mud and Mulveen came down with it on top of him.
The beaters had reached them now, but the beaters were indifferent.
Mulveen was the hunter: Mulveen had given his orders. But Gilbert was
their chief guide and now it was a question of who was hunter and who
hunted. Their loyalty would belong to the victor....

Mulveen's great weight came down on top of him. Mulveen had discarded
the water-filled rifle. His hands closed on Gilbert's throat. His
weight held Gilbert pinned.... In seconds--certainly no more than
minutes--Gilbert would lose consciousness, the last air used up and
self-poisoned and burning in his lungs, Mulveen's triumphant shouts
ringing in his ears.

But it wasn't merely for himself.

And it wasn't merely for Wenzi.

It was for Gilbert of Lewsanna--Earthman. And for a dream of the
islands, and of Earthmen claiming their heritage again, if not in
Gilbert's generation then in the one which followed....

He scooped a handful of mud and brought his hand, ooze and all, against
Mulveen's face. He found the eyes and clawed at them. He heard Mulveen
bellowing for the beaters. But the beaters were impartial.

His thumbs were pressing on Mulveen's eyes now, but Mulveen's strong
fingers were still on his throat. He felt something give. Mulveen went
on bellowing, but also slowly choking the life out of him.

He shifted his hands to Mulveen's mouth. He pulled at the lips. He
yanked with all his remaining strength and there was suddenly a pure
animal scream of pain and a quick flow of hot blood across his hand and
a release of the terrible pressure around his throat.

He got up. Mulveen's face was torn. Mulveen lifted his hand weakly.
There was a knife in it. Gilbert slapped out at the hand and the knife
dropped. Gilbert caught it, held the point at Mulveen's throat.

"I could kill you," Gilbert said.

Mulveen whined: "Don't! Please, you've earned the money. The money is
yours!"

He could kill Mulveen, yes--but would one of the Earthmen of the
islands, the real Earthmen, have done that? They would have been
content with victory--and with shaming the outworlder Mulveen in front
of the beaters and trackers.

"Don't come back to Earth," Gilbert said. "Ever. We don't want you
here. Put that in writing too."

"I will. I will, I swear!" Mulveen was cowering.

Arnaud came to them, smiling. "Great work, Gil--" he began. Gilbert hit
him and the tracker went sprawling in the mud. He came up snarling but
looked at Gilbert and muttered a curse and did nothing.

Later, a completely beaten Mulveen, his face swathed in bandages,
counted out the credits. "Make it ten thousand," Gilbert told him.
"Five thousand for Wenzi."

Mulveen counted out ten thousand credits. "But you'll have to lead us
back to civilization," he said.

Gilbert looked at Arnaud. "He will," Gilbert told Mulveen. "I'm not a
guide now. I'm a man. An Earthman."

Mulveen looked at him. Mulveen did not smile. Something in Mulveen's
face, in his eyes, spoke clearly of the day when Earthmen would regain
their heritage. Mulveen was afraid.

Gilbert took Wenzi's hand and walked off into the swamp. They would buy
a boat. And after that....

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WORLD OF THE HUNTER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
