ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Ride the Crepe Ring, by Milton Lesser

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Ride the Crepe Ring

Author: Milton Lesser

Release Date: July 5, 2021 [eBook #65767]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RIDE THE CREPE RING ***




                          RIDE THE CREPE RING

                           By Milton Lesser

               Norma thought it would be a great thrill
           to dodge the meteors in Saturn's forbidden Ring.
           A thrill yes--but would she live to enjoy it?...

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                              March 1952
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Mimas was a cold little world where the sun's rays seldom reached. You
stayed under a big glassite dome on the four-hundred mile sphere if you
stayed there at all, and you hardly saw the sun anyway because Saturn
and its rings were so big and so bright.

The temperature under the dome was kept in the forties because Mimas
was a summer resort, provided you wanted to travel three quarters of a
billion miles to leave the heat and the bustle of the inferior planets
behind you.

It was cold, but Mr. S. Smith sweated. The S. was for Socrates, but
everyone called him Smitty. Now he looked at his visitor and the sweat
formed little glistening beads on his forehead. The man was short and
stout with a bald head and a florid face. He looked silly next to
Socrates Smith because Socrates stood six and a half feet tall without
his space-boots, and he could have been a Martian bone bird for all the
flesh on his body.

"That's the size of it, Smith," the florid little man said. "We don't
care if you _are_ a billion miles from the sun--"

"Eight-hundred eighty-five million nine-hundred and sixty-three
thousand seventy-two," Socrates said proudly. "The most distant
pleasure-spot in the Solar System. Want to get away from it all? Come
to Mimas, with Saturn's rings right in your backyard...."

"That's it. We've had enough monkey business. Government was sued
because it sanctioned your artificial satellite above Jupiter's Red
Spot. The Red Spot Palace--bah! More people complained of asthma--"

"I included spacesuits with each domette, Mr. Farquhart. How did I know
somebody sold me an inferior product?"

Farquhart shook his head. "None of my business. All your customers went
to Mars to get rid of their asthma. Mars boomed, then over-produced.
We had deflation, and the whole tourist business went to pot for three
years. Why don't you try something simple like a spa on one of the
Venusian islands? I got a cousin--"

"Too crowded, too much competition. No, Mr. Farquhart, I have something
different here. It'll make me a million. Then I can retire, buy me an
estate on Ganymede and be out of your hair."

"It's not as simple as that, Smith. First I got to check this place.
Is it safe? How do I know it's safe? Will you give phony asthma to ten
thousand people again?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Socrates still sweated, but he was all business now. "Of course it's
safe. All my ships are war-surplus two-man cruisers, all twenty of
them. You trust the Space Navy, don't you?"

"Naturally, naturally." Farquhart lit a cigar. "But what do you do with
those ships?"

"We ride the rings, that's what we do. Only A and B, of course. The
Saturnian Merrygoround, that's what we have here. Someone's a licensed
pilot, I let him take a ship up himself. Otherwise I provide pilots."

"But is it safe?"

"You bet it's safe! And fun--it's terrific. The whole ring system is
a hundred and seventy-one thousand miles across, a big merrygoround.
Ten thousand miles of outer ring, sixteen thousand miles of bright
ring--all to play in. Billions of meteors, and all the tourists have to
do is dodge 'em. Great fun."

"I don't want to be a stick in the mud, Mr. Smith, but, ah, what
happens if someone doesn't dodge?"

"Not a chance. How could anyone miss? The ring-particles shine by
reflected sunlight--you can see each one clear as hell, and you just
avoid 'em, that's all. We don't go near the third ring, the crepe
ring--not that dark baby. That could be dangerous. You know, the
innermost ring, only seven thousand miles from Saturn itself. That's
dark as the inside of a Plutonian catacomb. I thought of a resort there
at first, but it's too damned far--"

Farquhart stood up. "Well, I don't want to take any more of your time.
Tell you what I'll do, Smith. I'll stick around three, four days, and
watch some of your tourists. I'll be fair about the whole thing--if
it's safe, excellent: if not--" He shrugged. "You got quarters for me,
Smith?"

Socrates started to tell him of the wonderful accommodations, thought
better of it, checked on a domette vacancy, and gave Farquhart his key.
"I'll see you," the short fat man said.

Socrates mopped his brow.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Can I come out now?"

Wearily, Socrates sat down. "Yes, come on. He's gone."

She was as tall for a girl as Socrates was for a man, and the long
cascade of her golden hair didn't need sunlight to make it gleam. She
was the prettiest thing in Mimas, and that included Socrates' glossy
new domettes. But it was because of her that he perspired.

"Please go away," he said. "Grow up in someone else's tourist haven,
Norma, like a good girl. If you hadn't decided to see what was in the
sponge grottoes of Callisto I'd still have my business there. If you
hadn't--"

"Bygones are bygones, Smitty. That's a good boy. But not quite. I see
your good friend Percival Farquhart is back--"

"Is that what the P. stands for? Percival, hah-hah."

"I wouldn't talk, _Socrates_. I wouldn't talk at all."

"Okay, okay. But look--there's a liner for Ceres tonight. I'll buy you
a ticket. The Interplanetary Fair--"

"I already saw it. Stinks. Besides, I have a roundtrip ticket good for
two years, so you don't have to buy me anything. You just mind your
business, and I'll mind mine. All I want to do is ride the rings."

"Well, I'll take you up tonight. Then will you leave?"

"Hell, no. You're not taking me anywhere. Didn't you know I got my
pilot's license?"

"Oh, no. Don't tell me it's come to that. They didn't give you a
license!"

"Oh yes they did. Fifth try this year, and I finally made it. Nice
young inspector, took me out to dinner afterwards. First they set his
arm, but it wasn't my fault. Those damn asteroids can really pop up
out of nowhere. Well, Smitty, which is my domette?"

Socrates sighed. He had no choice. If he didn't let her stay she'd make
it her business to talk to Farquhart before she left. Then Farquhart
would say the place was unsafe because she had a license. And yet
Socrates wouldn't let her ride the rings. As simple as that.

He gave her a key. "Here. But do me a favor."

"What's that?"

"At least don't go up without letting me know. I want to be nearby.
Please--"

She nodded and skipped out of the room, laughing.

Socrates knew that if you stayed in the two bright rings, and if you
kept within the prescribed speed limit of three miles a second in the
rings, you'd be all right. But not Norma. She'd hop her rockets to
seven at the very least, and even though the sun blazed off each meteor
in the rings with the reflecting brilliance of a beacon, she'd be sure
to find some way to get into trouble--

Socrates wondered which would be better. If he murdered Norma her
social set would bring every detective in the System to Mimas, and if
he murdered Farquhart he'd have the government on his hands.

He drank a glass of Martian _thlomot_ and looked in the mirror. His
face was haggard. "You musn't think those thoughts, friend," he said.
"This is the twenty-third century."

       *       *       *       *       *

On Monday he took up five tourists, and his half dozen pilots were
equally busy. But everytime he came back he saw Farquhart at the port,
like an undertaker, looking to see if anyone had been injured.

"You liked it?" he'd say. "Izatso? Really liked it eh? Amazing--"

With dread, Socrates awaited the first space-sick tourist. That's all
it would take: one. Farquhart would be more than happy to brand Mimas
unsafe for tourists, Saturn's rings a hazard, and Mr. Socrates Smith a
nincompoop. Maybe it was because his brother owned a spa on Venus. Or
was it an exploratorium in the asteroid belt? His cousin?

But space was calm and remarkably free of ether-drift, and Socrates
thought that maybe, just maybe, everything would turn out all right.
Farquhart might leave, grumbling but satisfied, any day now. It all
depended on Norma. If Farquhart left before Norma decided she was ready
to ride the ring....

On Wednesday he spent six hours with Norma, dinner of a particularly
succulent Venusian reptile, Martian white wine, Earth trimmings. They
danced the archaic Mambo, which Socrates had revived after three
hundred years, and which showed every indication of sweeping the System
by storm. Surprisingly, Socrates had to admit to himself that he
enjoyed the evening, if only because he knew he had kept Norma busy.
That meant one more day and one more night in which she had not visited
the rings. It brought them one day closer to the time when Farquhart
would leave.

But the kiss was different. He kissed her goodnight outside her domette
and for a moment he forgot all about Farquhart. "I'll be damned," he
said. "I liked it."

"Umm," she said, and they kissed again.

Socrates released her, turned around, and began to walk down the path
through the artificial garden toward his own domette. She called after
him.

"Thanks for a lovely evening, Smitty."

"Don't mention it.

"You know what?"

"What?"

"I think I'll ride the rings tomorrow. Well, goodnight."

Socrates tried to say goodnight, but only gurgles came out.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was at the spacefield early in the morning. Morning on Mimas was,
of course, a relative term. It was morning on Mimas when the sun set,
because then the great bulk of Saturn came up over the horizon and
filled one third of the heavens, lighting the sky almost like the
noonday sun on Earth, its great triple ring spanning the void almost
from horizon to horizon.

The ring--and Norma wanted to ride it today! Socrates trembled a little
when he thought of this, but he knew that for a time at least he could
go about his business. He had checked Norma's domette and she had not
been there; but she had told him that she would not ride the rings
without letting him know. That much at least he could be sure of--Norma
would be as good as her word.

At the Administration Building, the Entwhistles awaited him. "Good
morning," Socrates said, trying to sound cheerful.

"Morning?" This was Mrs. Entwhistle, big and round and overbearing.
"How can it be morning? The sun just set."

Socrates explained to her, and then Mr. Entwhistle declared: "You must
never argue with a man who knows, my dear. That's his business, and if
he says it is morning, why then, it is morning."

"Well, who will it be?" Socrates said.

"Well--" Mr. Entwhistle began.

"Me," said Mrs. Entwhistle. "I want to go first because if it seems too
strenuous to me then I won't send Arnold. Is it strenuous, Mr. Smith?"

"Uh-uh. You got a medical exam on the inner worlds which okayed you for
outworld tourist travel. If you passed that you'll be fine here. Ready
any time you are, Mrs. Entwhistle."

Mrs. Entwhistle turned white under the sunburn which she evidently had
received on one of the Martian desert resorts. It was not uncommon:
many of the tourists seemed afraid at first--after all, you took a
flimsy little two-seater and jockeyed it among the tiny motes of
Saturn's rings. The word tiny, of course, could be confusing. Some of
those motes could make a two-man cruiser look like a small speck of
dust. If you didn't know how safe all that reflected sunlight was you'd
be afraid. But the light was sufficient, and an alert pilot simply had
to mind his business and you had nothing to worry about.

       *       *       *       *       *

Socrates got into his vac suit rapidly and adjusted the glassite helmet
over his head. He had the attendants bring an oversized suit for Mrs.
Entwhistle, although he did not tell her that was the case at all. The
vac suits represented the final precautionary measure. Any good pilot
could avoid the larger chunks with ease, but once in a long long while
a smaller particle might somehow elude the force-field which was there
to protect against it, and the vac suit assured all tourists of a
personal supply of air.

"All set, Mrs. Entwhistle?"

"Yes. Yes--only, you're sure it's safe?"

"I'd take my own wife--"

Mr. Entwhistle smiled. "You married? I didn't know you were married,
Mr. Smith."

"He's not. Can't you see that he's not married, Arnold?"

"I'm not," Socrates admitted. "But I'd cheerfully take my own mother.
You'll be safe, Mrs. Entwhistle."

Mrs. Entwhistle seemed a little taken aback by this remark, but
her husband said, "Be careful, Gertrude," and then they closed the
faceplate on her glassite helmet.

Socrates switched on his radio. "Can you hear me, Mrs. Entwhistle?"

"Yes. Yes, I can. Better be careful, that's all I can say."

"Relax. We'll start now."

Mrs. Entwhistle was bulky in her vac suit, and two attendants had to
help her through the narrow lock of the ship. After that Socrates saw
to it that she was strapped securely into her seat, and her face looked
peculiarly green under the lights of the instrument panel.

Socrates jumped outside to tell something to one of the attendants and
he saw Farquhart there waiting for him.

"Hello, Smith. Nice day."

"Yeah. How's it coming? Your investigation, I mean."

"Surprisingly, fine. I'd say that if everything checks through with a
clean bill of health today I'll be leaving on tomorrow morning's liner.
If."

Perhaps Farquhart had not meant the if to sound so ominous, but it came
out that way because Socrates immediately associated it with what Norma
had said the night before. He smiled a bit weakly now and readjusted
his helmet. Then he mumbled, "I'll see you on Ganymede in a few years,"
and he went back in through the lock.

       *       *       *       *       *

They cruised at fifteen miles a second, and within an hour they were
passing under the outer ring. Automatically he lowered their speed.

Mrs. Entwhistle craned her neck upward, and through the top of her
glassite helmet her face looked like a fish underwater. "I thought we
go _in_ the ring, Mr. Smith."

He nodded. "Of course we do. We're a thousand miles out now. See? If
you look carefully, you probably can see some of the bigger particles
shining."

"Um, yes."

"But we don't go in here. This is the outer ring and we pass under it.
We also go under Cassini's Division--the dark band which separates this
from the inner ring. I'll take you there, through the brighter ring, up
to the border of the crepe one. But then we turn back. That would be
dangerous."

"Why?"

"Because the crepe ring receives no sunlight. It's dark, that's why,
and we'd have to rely on radar to keep the ship out of trouble. It's
tricky business and it's dangerous. A little light flashes on and off
and it tells you which way to steer, but unless you can see what you're
doing--like you can in the bright ring, it's dangerous."

In another few minutes Socrates cut the ship sharply upward, and before
long the solid whiteness of the ring had been replaced by a chaos of
flying rock. That's what it looked like--huge boulders, ton piled upon
ton, and the closer they came, the faster the rocks seemed to move. In
another moment the rocks were below as well as above them, and Mrs.
Entwhistle screamed.

"What's the matter?"

"I'm afraid. Please, Mr. Smith--"

"You have nothing to worry about--"

"I can't help it if I'm afraid. Take me back!"

Socrates turned sharply and the ship zoomed through an empty space. The
rear port showed only a massive rock; it had been that close.... "If
you don't keep quiet. Please--"

"Take me back!"

Socrates had had a few cases like this, and taking the customer back
was comparatively simple. Although this bright ring was the largest,
and although it did have a longitudinal width of sixteen thousand
miles, its latitudinal depth was no more than ten miles. Now he gunned
the ship up and in a moment they hung poised in deep space above the
ring. "We'll stay clear of the ring and go back to Mimas--"

"Why?"

"You were afraid. You said so, that's why."

"Well, I changed my mind. What would all the girls on Earth say if they
knew I hadn't actually seen the ring? Take me back, Mr. Smith. I'll be
brave."

Socrates smiled. "That's a good girl," he said, and they dove again for
the brightness of the ring. But he almost wished she hadn't changed
her mind. Then he could have returned to the spacefield and watched for
Norma.

       *       *       *       *       *

He cut a zigzag course through the hurtling meteors. Someone, he knew,
had once bothered to chart all the tiny particles of the ring, but it
had taken a lifetime and it was far from accurate. Socrates preferred
the seat-of-the-pants method.

In less than two hours they had cut through the width of the ring and
ahead was darkness--darker, it seemed, than space itself.

"A thousand miles of void, and then the crepe ring," Socrates
explained. "We'll be turning back now. Fun, Mrs. Entwhistle?"

"Great," she agreed, but she had taken off the fishbowl helmet, and
now she was mopping her brow. "I must try it again sometime. In a few
years, of course--"

Socrates jammed down on the rocket pedal and the fore-tubes blasted
their fire against the blackness. The little ship shuddered and Mrs.
Entwhistle emitted a sound which could have been the shrill shriek of a
tea kettle. Then Socrates turned them slowly in a great arc so as not
to harm the delicate two-hundred pound creature sitting by his side
with too much acceleration.

Something flashed by beneath them. It could have been a meteor, except
that this was a void area. Attraction of the planet Mimas, and the
other satellites were such that no meteoric material could exist in
this space--which explained the thousand mile separation of the crepe
ring.

Yet something had passed them, something shining brilliantly with
reflected sunlight.

A ship! It could have been nothing but a spaceship.... Socrates knew he
had the only ships in the area, but the crepe ring was out of bounds.
The strange ship had been gunning for it at ten per--

Socrates barked into his radio:

"Hello, hello! Who's out here?"

The voice mocked him. "Who do you think?"

He didn't have to think at all, but he felt like crying. It was Norma.
"I thought you'd tell me when you went!"

"I tried to, honest. But you weren't on Mimas, Smitty. So I took off.
But don't worry. I've already been through the bright ring. Pretty nice
setup, Smitty."

"I'm glad you like it. But you're heading in the wrong direction now."
Ahead of them was the darkness which obscured part of Saturn's huge
bulk--the darkness of the uncharted and mysterious crepe ring.

"What do you mean? Isn't this the way to the dark ring?"

"That's just it. Mimas is the other way."

"Oh, pooh. You go back to Mimas with your ship if you want. I'd rather
see the inside of that dark ring. I'll say hello tonight, Smitty. Have
a good trip back with Mrs. Entwhistle--I checked the tourist log."

Socrates called "Wait" into his radio at least a dozen times, but there
was no answer.

Mrs. Entwhistle said, "Why is that crazy woman going into the crepe
ring?"

Socrates sighed. If Norma got hurt now, his entire venture out here
would be ruined. Farquhart would see to that. Besides, quite suddenly,
he did not want Norma to get hurt. Not at all. Not ever. Maybe he was
crazy--but he liked the girl.

"What," he demanded of Mrs. Entwhistle, "is wrong with the crepe ring?"

"Now, that's a silly question. You told me yourself it was dangerous.
No one can see anything or some such thing--"

"Ha, ha, ha. I was joking. Good joke--but it's the best part of the
trip. In fact, the trip is incomplete without it. I've saved it for
last."

"So why are you trembling, Mr. Smith?"

"Nothing. It's nothing at all. Just get back into your helmet and I'll
show you what the inside of the crepe ring is like. Go ahead, Mrs.
Entwhistle. It isn't everyone who gets a chance to see the inside of
the crepe ring...."

       *       *       *       *       *

The darkness of space was pleasant by comparison. Here there were vague
flitting shadows, the half-seen images of huge masses of rock and metal
hurtling through space in their eternal revolution around Saturn. One
would be more than enough to crush their little ship--and Norma's....

Socrates hardly had time to think of it, hardly had time to hear Mrs.
Entwhistle whimpering with each sudden burst of acceleration. On and
off overhead the red and the green lights winked, and Socrates played
on the firing pedals like an organist, trying to blast their way clear
of the unseen rocks all about them. Once a yellow light winked and he
knew that one of the meteoric pebbles had streaked through their ship:
it now was an airless place, and only their flimsy spacesuits stood
between them and the cold, beckoning void of space.

Someone was shouting, and at first he thought it was Mrs. Entwhistle....

Norma!

"Hey, Smitty!"

"Yes. Yes, Norma."

"I can see you back there. See me?"

"Ahead a bit? Yeah, I see you." Her ship flashed once and then was
gone in the obscuring darkness, but it flashed again, and this time he
probed out with a beam of radar and he held it.

"I'm glad you see me, Smitty, because I think you'll have to come and
get me. I'm scared. My ship's a mess, gutted with holes. This place
is--awful."

Socrates muttered to himself and pushed the aft pedals to the floor.
Mrs. Entwhistle was slammed back in her seat and Socrates could see
that she was trying to scream, only she couldn't quite make it.

Only the green light flashed now, because the red-warning signal
remained bright: it lit the way to Norma. A score of miles, but their
zigzag course would make it more like several hundred--if they got
there. Socrates' insides began to hurt from the acceleration. His feet
were numb from working the pedals. Green light, step down, right, left,
again, green, aft pedal, aft pedal!... Socrates soon realized that he
was talking to himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Joining air locks in space was at best a ticklish business, but with
the added hazard of the meteors, Socrates did not know if it could be
done. He only knew one thing. It _had_ to be done. Norma's ship could
have been a derelict for all the activity it showed, and while it had
been pelted thus far only with smaller stones, one big rock would be
more than enough to prove fatal.

They crept forward slowly, it seemed, inches at a time--and three times
he had almost locked the two ships together, but at the last moment
he had to swing away. The action would force the other ship back as
well, and a massive chunk of cosmic debris would zoom through the void
between them. Close....

He locked them together finally, and then, vaguely, he remembered
running for the airlock. He found it, pulled the catch and opened
Norma's lock from the outside. He stood for a moment within her ship.

She was slumped over the pilot chair in her spacesuit. He ran to her
and lifted her across his shoulder, heading back for the lock. Then
he was through it and Norma sat on the floor, partly conscious, in
his own ship. He ran forward to the controls, pushing aside Mrs.
Entwhistle--who had fallen across both chairs, breaking her strap in
the process.

He fired all the aft rockets at once, blasting straight up towards the
top of the ring.

In seconds they were clear, but not before he had seen a huge, almost
spherical meteor grind into and through Norma's ship....

       *       *       *       *       *

Both women were conscious when they reached the spaceport. Socrates
smiled at Mrs. Entwhistle.

"Yes sir, you're a lucky young lady."

"Lucky? I feel almost dead."

"Ridiculous! You were the only tourist ever taken through that ring,
the crepe ring. You'll be famous. Wait until you tell all your friends.
I only took you because you seemed so obviously brave...."

"Go ahead," Norma chided, "pile it on, pile it on--"

Socrates told her, in his severest tones, that he'd get to her later.
After that, he was busy bringing the little ship down on Mimas' one
spacefield.

Mr. Entwhistle and Farquhart met them when they landed. The smaller,
thinner man seemed worried, but now he took his wife's hand and asked
her, "How did you like it?"

Socrates waited breathlessly. If Farquhart found out....

"I loved it!" Mrs. Entwhistle fairly shrieked. "Wait until you hear,
Arnold--and wait until we get back to Earth. We'll leave at once, on
tomorrow's liner. After I tell Aunt Sophie--"

"See?" Socrates turned to Farquhart.

"Um, I must admit it looks good this time, Smith. What about you, Miss?"

Norma grinned. "I had quite a time, quite a time. _My_ ship--"

Socrates kissed her soundly on the lips, and whatever else she might
have said was lost in the hurried smacking sound.

Farquhart cleared his throat. "I never knew you took two passengers up
at once, Smith. And I didn't see her before--"

"She's here, isn't she?"

"Umm--"

"You never know what we'll do here on Mimas...."

"Umm, well--I guess you're in order this time, Smith. Good luck."

Norma said, "My ship--"

Socrates kissed her again. Then he said. "If you don't shut up I think
I'll have to marry you. That's exactly what I'll have to do...."

Norma's eyes glowed at him. "As I was saying, darling, _our_ ship...."

This time she was kissing him.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RIDE THE CREPE RING ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
