ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Destiny Uncertain, by Rog Phillips

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Destiny Uncertain

Author: Rog Phillips

Release Date: July 19, 2021 [eBook #65877]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DESTINY UNCERTAIN ***





                           DESTINY UNCERTAIN

                            By Rog Phillips

               Is Fate a robot typing out the destiny of
            the world? Lin knew it was true so with his own
            future at stake--he stole a page from history!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                               May 1952
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"I'm never going to take my last breath," Lin said with a gloating tone
that implied some deep secret. He waited until his remark had had its
full dramatic moment, then added, "I'm simply going to take my next to
last breath and hold it."

Jerry Myer's voice emerged from the wave of laughter, serious. "But
there does often seem to be something predestined about death. Even
seemingly accidental death." He shuddered. "There were five hundred and
sixty-nine traffic deaths last Labor Day weekend. I wonder how those
victims would have felt if they had been told, say, a week before they
died? And been unable to avoid it, no matter what they did?"

"Nonsense!" Phil Arnoff said. "What about surgery, serums, and safety
devices? They get demonstrable results in saving lives. A man has an
enlarged aorta. Ten years ago he would have been a goner. Today he has
an operation. They transplant a section of the aorta of a dead person,
and he lives another twenty years."

Jerry sighed. "You're getting into a meaningless argument. It could be
answered that destiny brought the operation into the realm of actuality
to save him _because it wasn't his time to die_. There's a lot of
evidence to support predestination. Some of the oldest of philosophies
and religions are based on it. _It is written_ is a concept as old as
man."

"And maybe as mistaken as the ancient belief in a god of thunder," Lin
scoffed.

"And maybe not," Jerry said. "You read a book. Unless you cheat and
look at the ending first it's like life. Unpredictable. But you _can_
skip to the end and see how it will come out, and then start in at
the beginning and read with that knowledge. And when you again reach
the end it's still the same, because it was already written and
unchangeable when you began reading the first page. Sometimes I think
real life is like that."

Phil and Lin winked at each other. Then Phil said, "Let's suppose
that's true for the moment. Who does the writing?"

Jerry shrugged. "What difference would that make? There's the old tale
of the Fates as weavers, weaving a cloth that becomes the events of
men's lives as it is woven. And there's another one I heard once, or
read someplace...."

"What's that?" Lin prodded.

"I was trying to remember where I got it," Jerry said. "It doesn't
matter. The way it goes, Fate is an old man with sightless eyes,
sitting at a typewriter, pecking out the events that will happen.
Beside him is a wastebasket affair with an eternal flame in it. When
the sightless old man finishes one page he yanks it out and drops it
in the wastebasket. The flame consumes it, and as it is consumed it
becomes the reality of life."

"Say!" Phil said. "That's a darned cute idea. Writing on paper,
burning, and in the process of burning it transforms into reality by
some strange alchemy. I hope you can remember where you read that."

Lin snorted. "Maybe he wrote it himself and burned the pages as they
were finished," he suggested. He glanced at the clock on the wall. His
eyes widened in surprise. "I didn't know it was that late," he said,
rising. "I've got to get to the city before the bank closes. Have to
really step on it."

"Take it easy," Phil called after him. "Don't get killed."

"Nothing to worry about," Lin called back. "If it isn't written it
won't happen, you know."

"Don't tempt Fate!" Jerry said warningly.

But Lin was out the door beyond hearing.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sign read SLOW TO 35. Lin smiled. That was for ordinary cars. His
Hudson had a low center of gravity. But he took his foot off the gas
and the uphill drag slowed his car to seventy, sixty-five, sixty, then
fifty-five as he entered the first bend of the S curve.

The pines were tall right to the edge of the shoulder, hiding what was
ahead. It was a bad gamble, he decided, but the dashboard clock told
him it was one he would have to take. Twenty-four miles to go yet and
in twenty-two minutes. Even fifty-five was going to make him late. He
edged up to fifty-eight, leaning his head over so he could see farther
around the bend of the two lane highway.

A car was coming toward him. It was over on its side of the pavement,
which was well. There was a woman in it. The color and shape of the
hat, which was about all he could really see, told him that.

The oncoming car vanished for a moment on the curve. Then it was
rushing toward him on the short stretch of straightaway between the two
curved sections of the S.

Lin relaxed. There wasn't a thing to worry about. He'd taken the first
curve easily. The oncoming car was thirty yards away, then ten. Then--

It was one of those absolutely incredible instants of time. Something
had happened to his Hudson. A blowout? A wheel off? Whatever it was, he
had veered straight toward the oncoming car.

Instinctively he turned his wheel to get back into his own lane. The
car responded by lifting into the air and turning over.

There was a brief, photographic still picture of the other car poised
at a crazy angle scant inches in front of him. He could see the girl's
features clearly, etched in lines of horror. She was nice looking. Her
eyes were wide blue pools, and there were two sharp vertical lines
between them.

She looked at him then, accusingly, reproachfully. He shook his head in
mute apology and wished he could do it over and go slower.

Quite calmly, though, he knew they would probably both be killed.
And it was strange that time could speed up so quickly in the moment
before death. Even now, in this instant that hung poised in eternity
he could find time left to wonder what had happened. It couldn't have
been a tire. All four tires were less than five thousand miles old. It
couldn't have been a wheel either.

It could have been something in the road. He had been looking at the
female hat behind the windshield of that car and could have missed
seeing something on the road.

Forgetting what was in front of him, he started to turn his head to
look back.

       *       *       *       *       *

He blinked his eyes. There was something wrong. It came to him. He had
been about to have a head-on collision with another car. He looked down
at the ground where he stood. His feet were resting on a well packed
dirt path that went forward across the grass and curved behind a clump
of large leaved shade trees.

He looked around him. No one was in sight. The place was strange to
him. He'd never been here before.

He closed his eyes and thought back. He was quite certain he had been
about to be killed in an accident. It couldn't have been a dream. He
opened his eyes again and looked about him curiously. This could be a
dream. Or was he dead and was this something after life?

There was a test he could make. He tried to remember having reached
this point on the path. He turned around and looked back the way it
came up the gentle slope of the hill. He couldn't remember having
reached this spot at all.

There was another test. He used the edge of his shoe to scrape a line
on the path. Then he got down on his haunches and studied the ground.
There was no sign of his footsteps. But the ground was well packed.

He straightened up. There was no use just standing here, he decided. So
he started walking, the way he had been facing originally.

Suddenly he thought of another test. Stopping, he went through his
pockets. Everything was where it should be. His billfold held his
identification cards and currency. He studied the currency. It was too
perfect in detail to be a figment of a dream.

He shook his head in perplexity. Whatever had happened, it was beyond
his grasp. Shoving things back in his pockets he started forward again.

The sky was blue, with billowing white clouds drifting lazily high
above the treetops. Ahead there was the sound of water. Shortly he came
to a foot bridge that spanned a small and turbulent stream.

       *       *       *       *       *

The path followed the bank of the stream for a hundred yards, then
turned sharply and cut through the woods. The trees seemed to be some
kind of Maple. The ground was covered with short cropped meadow, as
though cattle had grazed here. But there was no sign of movement
anywhere.

But there was. Something small and black was drifting down toward him
in the air. He stopped and waited until he could reach out and seize it
between his fingers.

It crumpled at his touch. He rubbed it between thumb and finger,
examining its texture. It seemed to be a flake of burnt paper, as
though someone had tossed a piece of paper in a campfire, and a charred
piece of it had floated away on the breeze.

He went forward more eagerly now. Undoubtedly someone was ahead of him.
Probably on a picnic. He could find out from them where he was.

And there was a sensible explanation of things now. He had probably
been thrown clear of the car and knocked out. That could have lasted
for hours while he wandered through the woods.

Of course that was it, he decided with relief. Now all he had to do was
find someone and tell them about it, and they would take him back to
the scene of the accident.

Ahead through the trees he could see the steep bank of a tableland that
rose above the treetops. While he watched, there was a flurry of motion
that swept downward from up there. Black flakes that turned and tossed
in the breeze. More charred bits of paper. That was obviously where the
campfire was.

"Hello up there!" he called. There was no answer. No sound at all.

He broke into a trot, marvelling that he didn't feel groggy or upset.
The path turned in toward the steep bank and terminated at the foot of
concrete steps that went upward. When he reached them he paused to get
his breath, then started up the steps at a more leisurely pace.

They zigzagged up the face of the steep bank, twelve steps to each
section.

He paused half way up and looked over the treetops, which sloped gently
for several hundred yards, then dropped away. In the far distance was
the hazy panorama of a valley with two lakes that were irregular blue
splotches on a carpet of greens and browns.

He resumed his upward climb. Finally there was only one more section of
steps before the top.

       *       *       *       *       *

He sighed with relief and paused to look downward, almost regretting
that he hadn't chosen to go the other way on the path. He would almost
certainly have run into someone before this, going the other way, and
then he wouldn't have had all this climb. But.... He shrugged and
climbed the last of the steps.

He was on a flat table of jigsaw design, flagstone cemented together.
Twenty feet away was a man. The man, his back to him, was seated on
a stone bench before a small stone table, intent on something he was
doing that was concealed by his back and hunched shoulders.

In the incredible stillness came the staccato click of what sounded
exactly like typewriter keys. As Lin watched, the man jerked
something. A piece of paper appeared briefly, then was dropped into a
wire basket where almost invisible blue flames immediately licked at it
and began to consume it.

Blackened bits floated upward and away. And even as they floated over
the edge of the table the rapid click of the typewriter began again.

"Hello!" Lin said in good natured greeting.

The head didn't turn. The clack of the typewriter continued without
pause.

Lin hesitated a moment, then approached the man slowly, debating
whether he should speak to him again or wait until he paused to rest.
The man must not be doing so well with his writing, to toss a finished
page into the fire so casually.

Lin's lips quirked into a smile. He would sneak up and glance over the
man's shoulder and read what he was typing.

As he stole forward he studied what he could see of the man. Instead
of conventional attire he was wearing what seemed to be a heavy gray
robe. If he had any hair it was concealed under the black skull cap he
was wearing. The back of his neck was deeply wrinkled like that of a
man well past the prime of life. His ears were well formed, but stuck
out a trifle too much. And from the speed at which he was typing he was
probably completely unaware of his surroundings.

Lin paused above him and admired the typewriter. It was the most
beautiful machine he had ever seen, and electric, he decided as the
man's fingers touched a key and the carriage swung back to starting
position on a new line.

       *       *       *       *       *

The type on the paper wasn't standard. In fact, some of it didn't even
seem to be ordinary letters, but some strange type of symbols. Others
were almost ordinary.

Lin leaned forward cautiously in order to make out what was already
typed. He saw only two words that were recognizable. One was _force_ in
the middle of the second line. The other was _late_ in the line that
had just been written.

It was a foreign language. Lin decided. But the two words he could
recognize gave no clue to what language it might be.

The page was finished. The man's hand seized it and jerked it from the
machine, dropping it into the flame in the wire wastebasket.

And from some automatic feed a new sheet came into view on the platen,
and the man continued his typing, his fingers moving with great
rapidity and without letup.

Lin straightened and stepped back a bit so as not to startle the man.
He coughed loudly and said, "Hello, there."

The rhythm of the man's typing didn't vary. He gave no indication of
having heard.

Slightly annoyed, Lin reached out and tapped him firmly on the
shoulder. Still no result.

"Hey there!" Lin shouted, clamping fingers over the man's shoulders and
starling to shake him. "Hey!" he started to say again, then his voice
died away.

The shoulder under his fingers was unyielding. Too unyielding. His lips
took on a stubborn line. He applied force. The shoulder was immovable.

He released it and stared down, mystified. The fingers continued their
typing without pause, a blur of movement over the keys.

With abrupt decision Lin stepped around so he could see the man's face.
He caught an impression of a lean face, intellectual and relaxed, with
firm lips and thin high bridged nose. But these were only vaguely
noticed, because his attention was immediately dominated by the man's
eyes.

Or lack of eyes, that is. For where his eyes should have been was
nothing but tightly closed lids that, from their sunken contours,
covered no eyes at all, but only empty sockets.

       *       *       *       *       *

Experimentally Lin reached out and touched the face. The pale skin was
as unyielding as rock. He pressed his finger against the right cheek
until his nail bent over. It should have left a mark on any living skin
and brought an exclamation of pain from any living person. But it left
no perceptible mark, and the man gave no sign of having noticed. And
the fingers continued their rapid movement over the typewriter keyboard.

Incredulously Lin reached out and tried to remove the skullcap. It
wouldn't budge, and was as unyieldingly hard as the face.

"A robot!" The exclamation escaped Lin's lips in a hoarse whisper.
"Or--a statue?"

In desperation he seized one of the man's arms at the elbow and tried
to interrupt the smooth flow of movement. All his strength couldn't
vary the motion of that arm enough to cause a finger to miss a key on
the typewriter.

"Not a millionth of an inch of play in the joints!" he said, marvelling.

For the first time he turned his attention from the figure before him
and examined his surroundings. The robot or statue or whatever it was
was seated at a spot practically perched on the edge of a cliff that
went down much farther than the stairs on the other side. Here there
was a sheer drop of at least a thousand feet, and probably more nearly
two thousand.

Below, an immense valley stretched out toward the far horizon.

Lin looked out over the valley with a puzzled frown, trying to recall
if there were any high mountains in this section of the country. There
were hills, but no real mountains. Nothing to compare with this.

"How long have I been unconscious?" he muttered.

His attention jerked back to the typist in time to see another sheet of
paper go into the flames. He watched it burn. The flame itself seemed
to come out of a round hole in the rock inside the area of the bottom
of the wire basket. From its color it was a gas flame. In the dark it
would be a bright blue.

His attention turned to the typewriter and the stone table on which it
rested. An inscription was embossed on the smooth face of the front of
the table.

Lin nodded in grim understanding. This was a statue. But a statue such
as never had existed on the Earth he lived in, or it would have been
considered the eighth wonder of the world and known to every school
child.

An urgency possessed him to seize the next sheet of paper before the
flame could get it, and try to read it. He waited while the robot
statue typed, and when the hand jerked out the sheet to throw it into
the flames, he grabbed it, though part of it tore away and dropped into
the flame before he could rescue it.

He examined the texture of the paper. It had the feel of plastic
more than paper. He studied the typing. It was sharp and clear, and
completely unintelligible.

Or was it unintelligible? He could almost make sense out of the words.
Some of the letters that had been strange were taking on a feel of
familiarity.

       *       *       *       *       *

He closed his eyes tightly and shook his head, then opened them and
looked again. It did make sense, but the sense was just beyond his
reach.

He looked at the figure bent over the typewriter again, and it struck a
chord of familiarity somewhere in his mind. He had heard of this statue
somewhere....

He remembered now! This statue, or whatever it was, was the embodiment
of Fate. It was writing all that was in store for each individual,
and when it tossed the sheets that were written on in the flame
their burning brought what was written into being, and it happened,
somewhere, just as it had been written.

He stared at the fragment of paper he held in his hand, and wondered
what was written on it, and what events he was holding up by not
tossing the sheet in the flame.

A smile curved his lips. He held it over the basket. By releasing it,
it would drop down and burn. Then whatever event he was holding up
would happen.

His fingers relaxed. The paper slipped a fraction of an inch. Suddenly
he clutched it tightly and drew it to safety. His forehead prickled.
Beads of perspiration dampened it. This puzzled him. It was almost as
though somewhere in his mind was terrible anxiety. But he was quite
calm.

He stared at the torn sheet of paper again, the smile playing about
his lips. Slowly and deliberately he folded it and, taking out his
billfold, stored it safely away.

He took a last look at the silent robot, the clicking typewriter, then
crossed the tablerock to the stairs and went down them to the path.

Again he saw no sign of movement except for the occasional bit of
floating charred paper that came from above. He recrossed the stream at
the footbridge. He went slower then, looking for the mark he had made
in the hard packed path with the edge of his shoe.

He nearly missed it, seeing it only as he stepped over it. Stopping, he
turned and looked back the way he had come. Ahead were the broad leaved
trees that looked so much like Maples, the path over which he had come.

He started to turn--and the world turned topsy turvy around him.
There was the white face of the girl through the windshield of a car,
dropping away suddenly and rotating in a mad gyration until the face
was upside down, and then was gone past him.

A dull booming sound exploded on his bewildered mind. Wild forces were
tossing him about inside the car so rapidly that there was no way to
tell which was up and which was down.

As abruptly as it began, it ended. In the dead silence he heard the
screech of brakes. He wondered if it was the girl stopping her car to
come back, but he didn't turn his head to look.

He was trying to reconcile the sequence of events brought by his
senses. It was impossible. He had spent at least two hours walking up
that path, watching the robot statue, and walking back down again to
where he had first appeared.

Yet, if it had happened at all, it had happened in less than a split
second, for events in the collision had taken up _at the exact point
where they had left off_.

       *       *       *       *       *

He opened his eyes and saw the creamy gloss surface of a ceiling and
knew at once he was in a hospital. Without moving his head he let his
fingers explore the clean smelling sheets, the hospital bed gown tied
around his neck.

A footstep sounded. A nurse looked down at him with a quiet smile.
"Feel all right?" she asked.

He dipped his head in an almost imperceptible nod. The nurse went away.
There was a swish of wind as the door closed behind her, but he didn't
bother to turn his head to look.

After several minutes the swish of the door sounded again. More than
one pair of footsteps came toward the bed. Two men, probably doctors,
looked down at him.

"How's the patient today?" one of them asked.

"Today?" Lin echoed. "How long have I been here?"

"Almost a week."

It came flooding in. He could remember hours of torturous pain during
which he cried for them to put him out of his misery, of at least two
terrible nightmarish scenes where he was surrounded by gleaming chrome
things, and the awful odor of ether.

"I remember now," he said weakly. "Will--will I live?"

"If you'd asked us that yesterday we'd have said no," the doctor said,
"but--" He shrugged.

"How badly am I hurt?" Lin asked the doctors.

"Pretty badly," one of them said with grave frankness. "Broken back.
Severed spine. If you live you'll never walk again."

"But I probably won't live?" Lin said.

The doctors didn't reply.

"The girl," Lin said, "the one who was driving the other car? Was she
hurt?"

"Yes. Pretty badly. But she'll live."

"What's her name?"

The two doctors looked at each other. One of them said, "I believe she
gave her name as Dorothy Lake."

"Tell me, what was it that caused my car to go out of control?" Lin
asked suddenly.

"I can tell you that," one of the doctors said. "The mechanic reported
that your tierod, the rod that connects the front wheels together so
they stay in line, had come off one of its moorings."

"Oh." Lin said vaguely. He was beginning to feel strange. The memory
of that interlude atop the mountain had come back. He was remembering
that bit of paper he had snatched from the flames. But of course there
was nothing in that.... "Are my things here?" he asked abruptly. "My
billfold?"

"Yes," the nurse said. "Your billfold is in the drawer here."

"Get it," Lin said.

She opened the drawer and brought out the billfold.

"Open it and see if there's a folded piece of paper that's torn off on
one corner," he demanded.

He watched while she explored the contents. He recognized the texture
of the paper as it came to view. "That's it!" he said tensely. "Give it
to me!"

He tried to lift an arm. He had to be content with taking it in his
fingers while his elbows rested on the bed. With shaking fingers he
opened it, and saw the typing that was so different from ordinary
typing.

His fingers no longer shook. He folded the sheet of paper and handed it
back. "Don't put it back in my billfold," he said. "I want you to take
that down to the hospital office and have them put it in an envelope
and lock it in the safe. Do you understand? I want that taken care of
as though it were worth a million dollars. I don't want anything to
happen to it. Do you understand?"

"Y-yes," she said. "I'll do that."

Lin watched her leave the room, then turned with a grin to the doctors.

"I'll live," he said confidently. "I'll live. _Nothing_ can kill me
now--so long as that sheet of paper remains intact."

He didn't mind at all the way the two men looked at each other with
lifted eyebrows.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door swished open. The nurse came in. "There's a man down in the
waiting room who wants to see you, Mr. Grant," she said. "He gave his
name as Hugo Fairchild."

Lin frowned. "You sure he wants to see me?" he asked. "I don't know
anyone by that name."

"Yes, it's you," the nurse said. "I told him you weren't in any shape
to see any visitors, but he said he would take only a moment of your
time."

"All right," Lin sighed. "Send him up, but make sure he doesn't stay
any longer than that."

Lin examined the man the nurse brought in. He was of medium height and
of ordinary appearance. A type that wouldn't attract a second glance on
the street or anywhere else.

"I'm Hugo Fairchild," the man said. "You're Lin Grant."

"That's right," Lin said.

Fairchild looked down at Lin for a moment, then said abruptly, "I'll
come straight to the point. You have a piece of paper that doesn't
belong to you. I've come to get it."

Lin's eyes narrowed. "How did you know about it, and why do _you_ want
it?"

"There's no need to ask questions," Fairchild said. "I'm here to get
that piece of paper. It's of no importance to you."

"You can't have it," Lin said.

Fairchild looked around quickly. "We're alone," he said rapidly. "I
could knock you out with one blow of my fist. If you won't make any
outcry I'll just take it out of your billfold and leave."

Lin watched, grinning, as Fairchild opened the drawer and took out the
billfold and searched it swiftly. When he saw it wasn't there he tossed
the billfold back in the drawer and looked grimly at Lin. "Where is it?"

"You think I don't know the value of that bit of paper?" Lin said.
"You'll never get it. But you interest me. How did you _get_ here? You
know what I mean."

"Look, Lin Grant," Fairchild said. "I'm desperate. I have to have that
paper. It means nothing to you. Please let me have it."

"Means nothing to me?" Lin said, his voice soft and mocking. "If I
hadn't snatched that paper from the fire I would be dead right now. You
know that. And _so long as I keep it nothing can ever kill me_. That's
why you'll never get it."

"You're insane," Fairchild said. "How could a mere piece of paper have
that power? It has no meaning whatever. The writing on it is merely
nonsense."

"Then why are you so interested in getting it to put into the flame?"
Lin said. "If you hadn't shown up I might in time have rationalized my
memories some way and torn the thing up. But not now. Your coming after
it convinces me I'm right. You'll never get it!"

"If I don't," Fairchild said, tight-lipped, "you'll regret every minute
you keep it. You're wrong about it. It has nothing to do with you at
all." His voice became pleading. "Give it to me and I promise you that
you will recover completely as though you were never in a wreck. The
doctors can tell you how much of a miracle that will be."

Lin shook his head. "There's more to this than mere superstition or
fantastic miracles," he said. "I'll never give up that paper until I
know what it means and what it's all about. I know, I should have died.
I don't have anything to lose, whatever I do. So I'm keeping it."

"You'll regret it," Fairchild said. He turned abruptly to the door just
as the nurse came in. "I was just going," he said calmly.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night Lin slept, and in the morning when he awakened a nurse was
bringing in his breakfast tray. "Good morning!" she said brightly.

Lin yawned and stretched a vague, "Mornin'" coming from his wide open
mouth.

The nurse placed the tray where he could reach it easily, and started
to leave the room. At the door she stopped abruptly and gasped, then
turned and looked at him. She opened her lips to say something, thought
better of it and hurried out.

Less than five minutes later she returned with one of the doctors. She
was saying, "He did. I saw him with my own eyes," as she opened the
door.

"Good morning, Lin," the doctor said. "The nurse tells me she saw you
pull your legs up without touching them. Of course she's wrong."

Lin looked at his knees where they pushed the blankets up, a startled
expression on his face. "So I did," he whispered in amazement. And he
moved his legs again.

"That's impossible!" the doctor said sharply.

"So it is," Lin said, grinning. "I must have established a telepathic
bridge across the severed nerves."

"That's impossible too," the doctor said, but his first surprise was
wearing off. He came to the bed and pulled down the blankets, and stood
there watching Lin move his legs. "Better take it easy until we check
with fluoroscopy," he warned. "There's something mighty funny here. I
examined the X-ray plates myself. The spinal break was unmistakable!"

Half an hour later Lin was relaxed on the table in the X-ray lab, while
a full half dozen doctors studied him through the fluoroscope screen
and all talked at once, with every once in a while one of them going to
an illuminated plate and tracing what was quite obviously a wide gap in
a spinal column.

"I think I could walk without any trouble if you'd let me get up," Lin
remarked.

"Good heavens no!" one doctor gasped.

"I don't see why not," another said. "If we had nothing to go on but
what we see now you'd agree nothing's wrong with him. Why not let him
try?"

There were uneasy mutterings that gradually drifted into a majority
opinion that he should try. The technician moved the fluoroscope screen
out of the way.

Lin sat up, swiveled gently ninety degrees and lowered his legs over
the edge of the table. Cautiously he eased his feet to the floor. Even
more cautiously he let his weight gradually settle on them. While the
doctors watched without seeming to breathe, he stood up and took a
timid step, a more bold one, and then walked several steps and turned
around, coming back to the table.

"Feels perfectly natural," he said. "I guess you'll have to admit you
were wrong about that spinal cord break."

"But we weren't wrong!" It was the doctor who had had charge of Lin in
the first place. "The X-rays prove it!"

"Are you sure they weren't mixed up with those of some other patient?"
another doctor suggested.

"Find me another patient in this hospital who has a spinal break half
an inch wide and I'll--I'll--"

"Eat him?" Lin suggested.

"Yes. I'll eat him. Gladly. There was definitely no error. A miracle is
more possible than those X-ray plates getting mixed up."

"Does this fix me up then?" Lin asked. "Can I leave the hospital?"

"Not for another two or three days under any circumstances," his doctor
said. "Personally I think we should put you on display. Permanently.
The first proven miracle in two thousand years. Or more! But we'd like
you to remain long enough for us to make sure this isn't some freak
happening that will undo itself. And also to give us time to get used
to the fact that you can walk."

"Okay," Lin said. "I'd just as soon stay another couple of days anyway.
Can I go back to my room and have another breakfast? I didn't get a
chance to finish my first one."

       *       *       *       *       *

As soon as he was alone in his room he went to the window and peeked
out. Below was the street, and to the left he could see the sidewalk
that led to the main entrance of the hospital.

Across the street were office buildings, and after a moment he found
what he had half expected to find. Hugo Fairchild was standing on the
sidewalk watching the entrance of the hospital.

"You should stay in bed."

Lin whirled at the sound of the voice, then relaxed with a relieved
sigh. It was the doctor.

"Okay, doc," he growled. He went and sat on the edge of the bed.

A twisted smile curved the doctor's lips. "You know," he said, "you
aren't the only miracle that happened in this hospital today."

Lin blinked. "Don't tell me Dorothy Lake, the girl in that other car,
is the other one!"

"How did you know?" the doctor said. "Yes, it was she. Five fractured
ribs and a broken right arm. And a severe laceration on the cheek. And
not a sign of them now."

"Where is she?" Lin demanded. "I've got to see her."

"I wish I knew what was going on," the doctor said. He studied Lin
silently. "I'll ask Miss Lake if she will see you."

Lin lay down and tried to relax while the doctor was gone, but his eyes
didn't leave the door. It was over an hour before the nurse came in
with a robe and the information that "Miss Lake wants to see you."

He followed her the full length of the hallway. She opened the door
for him. He went past her into the room, and saw the face he had seen
through the windshield.

"I'll leave you alone for ten minutes," the nurse said.

"Hello," Dorothy Lake said nervously.

Lin saw that she was afraid. "Hello," he said. "You don't need to be
afraid of me. I won't eat you. As a matter of fact, I'm awfully sorry
I ran into you. If there's anything I can do.... I'll pay the hospital
bill of course...."

"I'm not afraid of you," she said. "It's the way I woke up this morning
with nothing wrong with me. It scares me. I don't know what to make of
it."

Lin started to say something and thought better of it.

"And there's something else," Dorothy went on. "It's the man that
insisted on seeing me yesterday. He demanded that I give him a paper I
was supposed to have. He wouldn't believe me when I told him I didn't
know anything about it."

"Was his name Hugo Fairchild?" Lin asked.

"Yes!"

"I see it all now," Lin said grimly. "Your fate was written on that
slip of paper too."

"My fate?" Dorothy said, bewildered.

"And he made us get well so we would have to leave the hospital," Lin
went on. "When we leave he'll get us and take it away from me."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dorothy laughed nervously. "Don't leave it there. I think I'm really
insane. The things that are happening can't happen. That's a good test
of insanity isn't it?"

"Don't be silly," Lin said. "When a thing happens it _can_ happen, no
matter how impossible it may seem. Let me tell you what happened to
cause all this."

"Please do," she said. "I'm sure it can't be any more impossible than
my bones healing up and a bad cut on my cheek vanishing overnight
without even leaving a scar."

"You think not?" Lin said grimly. "Then listen to this. You remember
when we were about to hit? A fraction of a second before the crash?
At that precise instant when you were staring at me reproachfully
I suddenly found myself in--I don't know where it was, but I know
it wasn't on this earth. I followed a path up to a high tablerock
overlooking an immense valley, and there on that high perch was a
statue."

"A statue?" Dorothy echoed.

"Don't interrupt," Lin said. "You can't possibly understand. I don't
myself. So just listen to what happened and what I think it means. It
was a moving statue. Like a robot, in a way. But it was more than that.
I'm sure of that now. It was, in some way, a god. The god of Fate. It
was typing on a typewriter of some sort that had an automatic feed to
supply a new sheet of paper every time the old one was yanked out.
And beside the typewriter was a wastebasket sort of thing with a flame
burning at the bottom. This statue would fill a sheet of paper with
typing and then yank it out and drop it in the basket, and it would
instantly burn. And I know now that the very process of burning that
sheet of paper made reality out of whatever was written on it. And to
cut a long story short, I yanked a sheet of paper out of the statue's
fingers just as it was about to be dropped into the flame."

"But--" Dorothy said weakly.

"That piece of paper," Lin said firmly, "was our fate. Yours and mine.
On it was written that we were to die in that accident. And until that
paper is returned to that place and burned in the flame, _we cannot
die_!"

She was looking at him queerly now.

"You think I'm crazy?" Lin said. "Hugo Fairchild came to get that paper
didn't he? And I have it. Fairchild's waiting outside the hospital for
me--or you--to come out with it, too. I saw him from my room."

"How...." Dorothy said weakly. "How did you get over into that--that
other world?"

"I don't know," Lin said. "I just did, that's all."

"Then ... then Hugo Fairchild is from this other world?"

"It's obvious, isn't it?" Lin said.

"But it's too late for it to do him any good now, isn't it?" she
persisted. "The accident is over. We weren't killed."

Lin shook his head slowly. "It isn't too late, or he wouldn't want it.
Don't you see? We, you and I, can't die until he gets it. That's why
he wants it. Since it's written on it that we died in that crash, the
moment it burns we'll be back where we were when I snatched that paper
from the flames, and we'll die in that accident. Then all this, our
being in the hospital and all, will never have happened!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the next day. Dorothy had come to Lin's room. She was peeking
out the window at Fairchild down on the sidewalk.

"What will we do, Lin?" she asked, turning to him. "We can't hope to
fight him. He must have supernatural powers, or he couldn't have caused
us to recover so miraculously."

"I don't know," Lin said. "We'll have to sneak out the back way or
something. We have to leave tomorrow, you know. Or--Look, he's after
the paper and you don't have it. It's me he wants. I'll leave first,
with that paper. Then you'll be free and can forget about it."

"I still can't believe it," Dorothy said. "If it weren't for the fact
that my ribs were definitely broken, and I saw that nasty cut on my
cheek...."

"You know there's no other explanation," Lin said.

"But how could writing on a piece of paper _form_ reality?" she
objected. "It just can't!"

"But it does," Lin said. "What is reality? Scientists have been trying
to find out since time began. There could be different kinds of
reality. Ours could be subject to the minds of beings on another plane
of it. This robot could sit there and write out things that happen, and
make them happen here. It has to be that."

"I know," Dorothy said. "It has to be that, even if it doesn't seem
possible."

She left the window and went to a chair and sat down.

"Lin," she said. "If he gets that paper we both die. I'm going with
you. I couldn't stand going out alone and not knowing when he gets it."

"Nonsense," Lin said. "He won't get it. You can forget about it."

"What if he never gets it?" Dorothy asked.

"Then we'd live forever." Lin grinned. "Maybe that's why he has to get
it back."

"Suppose," Dorothy said. "Suppose--don't think I'm silly, but suppose
we destroyed it on this plane. Then it could never go into that flame."

"I don't know," Lin frowned. "Maybe any flame would make it happen. It
would be an awful risk to take."

"We wouldn't have to burn it," she said. "We could tear it into little
bits and let the wind carry them away, one at a time."

"I'll have the nurse get it," Lin said.

When the nurse brought it Dorothy examined it eagerly, trying to read
what was typed on it. A light of excitement danced in her bright blue
eyes. Finally she held it in a position to tear it.

"Shall I?" she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lin nodded. She hesitated a moment, dramatically, then abruptly pulled
her hands in a shearing movement that should have torn it easily.

It didn't.

"Here, let me do it," Lin said.

He took it and tried to tear it, without success. He grunted, and
exerted every ounce of strength. It remained intact.

"That's funny," he said. "It tore easily when I grabbed it from Fate."

"Let's burn a little corner of it and see what happens," Dorothy
suggested.

Lin went to the bedside stand and got his lighter. He held the flame to
one corner of the sheet of paper. A minute went by, two minutes. The
paper refused to burn or even char.

"Huh!" Lin said, snapping his lighter shut. "Well, it's a cinch that
scissors will cut it. I'll ask the nurse to bring us a pair."

Ten minutes later he was trying to cut it, without success. It would
bend between the blades of the scissors, or stop them from coming
together at all. But it wouldn't cut.

"It's indestructible on this plane of existence," Dorothy said. "Now I
believe you, Lin."

"I'm glad you do," Lin said dryly. "So now it's clear what I should do.
My job is to hide this someplace where Hugo Fairchild can never find
it. You can go your way and forget about it."

Dorothy shook her head. "No," she said. "I'm going with you. We'll
face this together. I--I couldn't stand the suspense of wondering when
Fairchild would catch up with you and get it."

"You'd get used to it," Lin said. "After all, everyone has to die
sometime, and no one spends much time worrying about when it will come."

"But this isn't the same," Dorothy said stubbornly. "That man is after
it, and when he gets it we'll die. I'm sticking with you--and that
piece of paper."

Lin went to the window and peeked out. Fairchild was still in sight,
watching the main entrance of the hospital.

"Okay," he said, turning back to Dorothy. "Go to your room and put on
your street clothes. We're going to leave now. We'll sneak out the back
way."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lin watched the door close, then went to work. Folding the piece of
paper several times until it was a compact square, he taped it to his
side under his left armpit where it couldn't be noticed.

He dressed swiftly, wrote a hurried note informing the hospital he
wasn't sneaking out to avoid paying his bill. He left the note on the
bed in plain sight and started toward the door. Just as he reached it
he remembered Dorothy's hospital bill. He went back and added a P.S.
for the hospital to put her on his bill.

Opening the door, he peeked out. A nurse was in the hall. He watched
her until she went into a room, then slipped out and hurried toward the
stairs.

He was grinning to himself. Dorothy wouldn't have had time yet to get
dressed. And he had no intention of waiting for her. It would be too
dangerous. She would find him gone. She would be unable to find him.
And eventually she would take up her life where it had left off. In
time she would forget him and think the whole thing a dream. That was
the best way.

He passed people on the stairway without meeting anyone who would
recognize him. In the basement the risk was greater. There were dozens
of people. But no one stopped him as he hurried toward the exit. They
considered him just a visitor, he reflected.

The critical moment was just ahead of him now. A hundred questions
were tormenting him. How had Fairchild known which hospital he was in?
How had Fairchild known it was he who had stolen that paper?

He shrugged the questions off. There was no way of knowing now. If
Fairchild had powers that would enable him to discern that he was
sneaking out the back way and be there waiting for him, he'd just have
to make the best of it.

At the exit he paused and peeked out. There was a wide concrete
driveway. An ambulance was parked there. No one was in sight.

He opened the door boldly and stepped out. He started along the
driveway with an appearance of casual unconcern, as though he were a
visitor taking a shortcut.

"Not so fast, Lin!"

He turned quickly. Dorothy was half running to catch up with him. He
felt his pulse leap and somehow couldn't feel anger.

Dorothy smiled knowingly at him. "I figured you'd try to escape alone,"
she said. "So I hurried."

"Well, it was an idea," Lin said. "Come on. We've got to put distance
between us and Fairchild before he discovers we're gone."

They reached the driveway exit. It was on a sidestreet from the main
entrance. Fairchild wasn't in sight.

"Where'll we go?" Dorothy asked nervously.

"How about my apartment?" Lin said. "We can stay there months at a time
without going outside."

       *       *       *       *       *

She gasped, then saw that he was laughing at her with his eyes. "I'll
have you know ..." she said angrily.

"Know what?" Lin prompted.

"Let's go _some_ place," she said. "We can't just stand here."

"There's a taxi," Lin said, taking her hand and pulling her after him
into the street. In the taxi he gave the driver directions. "First
National Bank down on Center Street," he said. "Wait there. We're going
to the airport from the bank." And to Dorothy in a lower voice, "We'll
put some real distance between us and Fairchild. After that you can go
your way and I'll go mine."

"If that's what you want," she said. She broke suddenly. "Oh, Lin. I
don't know what I want. I don't want to leave you. I'm afraid. Or maybe
I'm not. I don't know. It's all a rotten mess. Why couldn't we have met
normally so that if--" She bit her lip and turned away.

The taxi hummed along for several blocks while they were silent. When
Lin spoke his voice was low and serious. "Maybe I feel that way too,"
he said. "But--you know what's wrong with it? We're running away. It's
like being an escaped criminal with a death sentence hanging over you."

"But it needn't be!" she said, laying her hand on his arm. "The police
aren't after us or anything like that. We've given this Fairchild the
slip now. All we have to do is go away somewhere and he'll never find
us."

"He'll be looking," Lin said, "and we'll wake up every morning with the
knowledge that this may be the day he finds us." He turned and looked
through the rear window of the taxi. "Actually I'm surprised we gave
him the slip. I can't understand it."

"You feel that way?" Dorothy said with a shaky laugh. "I do too. He
found us in the hospital. I keep thinking he just knows things. You
know what I mean."

"He didn't know which one of us took that paper," Lin said. He frowned.
"But he knew it was one of us. He must know what's on it. He has
supernatural powers, too. Look how he fixed us up."

He looked through the back window again. When he straightened he fixed
his eyes on Dorothy's face.

"Dorothy," he said, "maybe nothing can stop him from getting that paper
back soon. It may be hours or days. But--would you marry me and make
the most of it until...?"

She began twisting her fingers together nervously. "I--I don't know
what to say," she hesitated. "It seems so wrong in a way. I don't mean
wrong. Unfair. That's it. Unfair to--to both of us. Like we were doing
this whether we love each other or not. It doesn't give whatever love
we could have had a chance."

Lin stared at her a moment. "Then let's turn around and go back and
give it to him," he said quietly.

"Let's--let's--" Suddenly she was in his arms, her face buried in his
collar, her body trembling. She lifted her head until her cheek rested
against his. Her voice was a whisper in his ear. "Let's--get married."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Boy, have you two got it!" Phil Arnoff said. "You get me on the phone
and tell me to rush to town, and you can't wait five minutes. What's
the matter? Afraid you'll fall out of love if you don't plunge?"

"We wouldn't have waited for you to get here," Lin said, "only we
have to have a witness, they said when we got the license." He looked
pleadingly at Dorothy. "Please, honey. Let's skip the church. You don't
_have_ to be married in one do you?"

"It's got to be a church," she said. "That's the one thing I've always
been certain of."

"Why not?" Phil said. "There's a dozen churches that exist on weddings.
Don't even have a congregation. Just weddings. One of 'em ought to have
a vacant ten minutes today."

They found a phone booth and Lin began making calls. The third number
was answered by a man with an Irish brogue who blessed them for their
eagerness and agreed to perform the ceremony at once.

"Hah!" Lin said when he hung up. "We'd have got along without you
okay, Phil. Reverend O'Hara said he has a witness on hand all the time
for couples like us."

"I'll trail along anyway," Phil grinned, "What _is_ the rush though?
How long have you two known each other?"

"We ran into each other a few days ago," Dorothy said, taking Lin's
hand and leading him toward the sidewalk.

Phil followed them and noted silently the way they glanced anxiously
about when they were out in the open, as though afraid of being seen by
someone.

Lin flagged a cruising taxi again. The three of them piled into it and
Lin gave the address of the church.

Phil broke the silence after a few blocks. "I'm being nosey, I know.
But you two were obviously looking to see if you were being followed.
Why don't you tell old uncle Phil about it? Huh?"

"About what?" Lin said, turning innocent eyes on him.

"Nothing," Phil said. "Only, sometimes three heads are better than one.
If you two, or one of you, is in trouble, maybe I could be of help if I
knew what to look out for."

"I doubt it," Lin grunted. "In fact, if we told you you wouldn't
believe it, so skip it."

"So it is trouble," Phil murmured. "I thought so." He grunted. "Count
me in on it. What is it. Bank robbery?"

"Worse than that," Dorothy said. "But let's forget it. I want to
relish every minute of my wedding."

"Just like a woman," Phil said, lifting his eyes upward. "_My_ wedding,
she says."

The taxi chose that moment to pull to the curb and stop. Outside was a
small and picturesque church.

"Go on in and get things started," Phil said. "I'll pay the driver."

"Tell him to wait," Lin said. "This shouldn't take more than ten
minutes." He took Dorothy by the hand and led her toward the entrance.
Phil grinned at the taxi driver and shrugged.

       *       *       *       *       *

"As best man I get to kiss the bride first," Phil said fifteen minutes
later.

Lin jumped, startled. "Huh uh!" he exclaimed. "I've never kissed her
yet myself!" He put his arms around her and kissed her lingeringly.

She pulled away from his embrace finally, one hand trying to keep her
hat on her head, murmuring, "It's about time!" But the bright lights in
her eyes said that it was worth waiting for.

"Bless you, my children," the minister said, smiling.

"Oh yes, how much do I owe you?" Lin said. Realizing his mistake he
hurriedly took out his billfold and handed the man a twenty dollar
bill. He turned to Dorothy, not waiting for the thanks he expected.

Phil correctly interpreted the minister's dismayed look and slipped
him another ten. "He doesn't realize the overhead ate that up," he
whispered. "He doesn't get married very often."

"Oh, I see," Reverend O'Hara whispered.

Phil hurried after Lin and Dorothy, catching up with them just outside
the front entrance.

"Now," he said grimly as they got into the taxi again, "you want to be
alone. My price for leaving you alone is for us to go somewhere first
and have a drink or two--which you would anyway--and listen while you
tell me what's behind all this rush." He looked sidelong at Dorothy and
chuckled. "Surely it wasn't a race with the stork! Or is the hospital
our next stop?"

"Of course not!" Dorothy said indignantly. "We just came from there
this morning."

"Then this was...?" Phil said, half seriously.

"Not what you think," Lin said. "There's the Shangri-La ahead. We can
have a couple of drinks there and something to eat. And we'll tell you
all about it, though you won't believe a word."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was almost two hours later. And four drinks later. "So you see why,"
Lin was saying while Phil stared at them with round eyes, "we don't
know how long we have. Maybe--" He looked anxiously toward the gloom
of the entrance across the room. "He could walk in during the next
minute. I can't see why he doesn't. I _know_ he knows where we are. I
feel it."

"And you have this paper taped to your side under your shirt?" Phil
said. "Let me see it."

"No!" Dorothy said.

"I've known Phil most of my life," Lin said. "He's all right. Anyway,
you know the thing's indestructible on this plane."

Dorothy hesitated, then reluctantly nodded her agreement. Lin yanked
the folded paper from under his shirt.

Phil took it, unfolded it curiously, and frowned at the strange
typewritten characters on it.

"You say it's indestructible?" he asked after a moment.

"We tried to tear it, to burn it, and to cut it with the scissors," Lin
said. "All it does is bend."

Phil tried to tear it, cautiously at first, then exerting every ounce
of strength in his fingers. He gave up and examined the paper with a
new respect in his eyes. "I almost think I believe your tall tale," he
said musingly.

He dipped a finger in his cocktail and rubbed it over the characters on
the paper. Though they became wet they didn't blur or fade.

He took out his lighter and touched the corner of the paper to the
flame. When it didn't char he touched it again and let the flame play
on one corner for a moment, then touched the corner with his fingers.

"Just warm," he grunted. He began folding the paper up the way it had
been. "Of course there's one way I could help you," he said slowly.
"You could let me keep this. I could hide it where even you wouldn't
know how to find it. That way when this character catches up with you
it's out of your hands."

"That's an idea," Lin said. "But we would know you had it. Maybe he
could worm it out of us and then he'd be after you. And it wouldn't be
your life that hung in the balance."

"True enough," Phil said. He cupped the folded paper in his hand,
closing his fingers over it. "There's one or two points I'm not clear
on, Lin. You say you grabbed it when it was still in Fate's fingers,
and that's when that part tore off? You were able to tear it then. Why
can't you now?"

"I don't know," Lin said. "Things are different over there, I guess. It
burns over there, too, remember. In that flame."

"Yes, I know," Phil said. "I just--"

A terrified gasp from Dorothy interrupted what he had been about to
say. Her eyes were wide and round, and fixed on the entrance across the
room.

"Fairchild!" Lin gasped.

       *       *       *       *       *

Phil turned his head and glanced briefly at the man who stood there
surveying the occupants of the room. He got swiftly to his feet just as
Fairchild saw them and started toward them.

"Well, goodbye, kids," he said casually. But his broad wink warned them
to let him escape with the paper that was still hidden in the palm of
his hand.

"Give me back--" Lin blurted. But Phil was hurrying toward the
entrance, passing Hugo Fairchild. Lin sighed in relief as Phil made it
to the door and vanished.

"Well, well," Fairchild said. "I finally tracked you two down. So
you're married now." He slid into the seat Phil had occupied.

"Yes, we're married," Lin said coldly. "And we want to be alone."

"I don't doubt that," Fairchild said. "I don't doubt it at all. I
sympathize with you, but I have my job to do, you know."

"I'll bet you sympathize with us," Dorothy said worriedly.

"But I do, really," Fairchild said. "And to prove it I'm going to make
you a nice offer. I don't have to, but I can, and I will. Give me the
paper and I'll promise not to toss it into the Flame for a whole year.
That will give you a year of happiness. It won't do any harm in the
long run, because the instant that paper is consumed everything goes
right back to the instant of the crash, and world events go on as they
should have in the first place. But I'll stick to my bargain. If you
give me the paper without trouble."

"But we don't have it!" Dorothy blurted.

"You don't?" Fairchild exclaimed. His eyes widened in sudden
comprehension. "That fellow...." He half rose and looked toward the
exit. He glanced back at their faces and saw that he had guessed right.
Waiting for no more he leaped across the room, bumping into a waiter
and causing him to spill a tray of drinks. Then he was out the door
before anyone could stop him.

"I hope Phil had sense enough to get far away, and quick," Lin groaned.
"Come on, Dorothy, let's see." He dropped enough money on the table to
take care of the check and, taking her arm, hurried after Fairchild.

Twenty feet away a crowd had gathered about a central point. They ran
to the crowd and pushed their way toward its center. Dorothy gasped and
Lin tensed at what they saw.

Phil was getting slowly to his feet, nursing a large bruise under one
eye with gentle fingers.

"The other guy just vanished!" someone said unbelieving. "I saw him! He
just vanished in thin air where he was standing!"

"Did he get it?" Lin said, helping Phil to his feet.

Phil nodded, then muttered, "Let's get away from here. I think I need
another drink."

Lin's legs were suddenly watery. Dorothy's lip was trembling.

"A drink," Lin said dully, then, determinedly, "Yes, a drink." He took
Dorothy's arm in his fingers. "Come on, honey. Maybe we'll have time."

"A drink?" Dorothy said shrilly. "We're going to be dead in another
minute and all you want is time enough to have a drink?"

"That isn't it at all," Lin said. "Let's get off the street."

       *       *       *       *       *

He guided her firmly through the crowd, Phil following in their wake.
They went back into the Shangri-La once more and back to their table
where their unfinished drinks still rested.

"I'm sorry you took what I said the wrong way," Lin said. "Believe me--"

"It's all right, darling," Dorothy said. "I know you didn't mean it
that way. It's just that, well, we haven't had a chance together...."
Her lips started to tremble again, then she was smiling bravely.

"That's the girl," Phil said.

"You should talk," Lin growled. "You aren't going to die."

"Let's drink to that, or something," Phil said. "I need one, and I'm
sure you both do too."

They drank solemnly. Lin and Dorothy were looking into each other's
eyes as they drank.

"I wish--" Lin choked.

"I know," Dorothy said. She leaned across the table and Lin kissed her.

"Cigarette?" Phil asked, holding out his pack. They each took one and
he lit them with his lighter.

"Three on a match," Dorothy said nervously. "I guess it's all right
this time though. The conclusion is foregone."

"Wonder how long it will take," Lin said, sucking in the smoke hungrily.

"That's another thing," Phil said. "That other time you took that long
walk and got the paper and walked back to where you started from, and
it all happened in less than an instant."

"That's right," Lin said. "He should be...."

"As a matter of fact," Phil said, "I think he should. So it worked
after all. I'd really hoped it would. Or maybe ... but I think it
worked."

"What worked?" Lin and Dorothy demanded together.

"He must have tossed that paper into the flame by now, unless he read
what was on it," Phil said. He spread his hands apologetically. "You
see I knew this couldn't go on forever. The only way to fight the
supernatural is to outsmart it, I figured. So I wrote on it. Simple as
that. I bore down good too so that if the ink came off, the writing
would still be creased in good. On the theory that _whatever_ was on
that paper would come true when it got burned."

"_What did you write?_" Again Lin and Dorothy spoke in unison.

"I didn't have time for anything involved," Phil apologized. "I rather
expected him to be after me before I could go far."

"_What did you write?_"

"Just one word," Phil said, "_Cancelled_."

"Cancelled?" Lin and Dorothy echoed dumbly, then, comprehendingly,
"Cancelled!"

"Sure," Phil said. "That way when it was burned it wouldn't do
anything. They'll have to start over on you."

They stared at him wordlessly.

"It must have been burned by now," he added weakly. "So my scheme
worked."

They turned their heads and looked into each other's eyes. Two ghostly
windshields obscured their vision. The tables and people about them
faded, to be replaced by ghostly pines, a more solid concrete highway.

They stared into each other's eyes, knowing all that had been, feeling
it slip away.

But abruptly it vanished and they were looking at each other across
the table while a waiter asked them if they wanted another drink. For a
long second their minds hovered in that other stream of time before the
realization came that it was over and they were safe.

"Another?" Lin said. "Yes. Sure. You want one, Dorothy?"

She nodded and watched the waiter's back as he hurried away.

"You two look as if you'd seen a ghost," Phil said. "I would almost
swear that paper reached the flame a second ago."

Dorothy turned to him. "It did," she said. "And I don't know whether to
be happy about it or--never forgive you."

"Why?" Phil asked.

She looked at Lin, her eyes soft and luminous. Her hand reached out and
nestled in his.

"Well," she said, "it seems to me the least you could have done while
you had the opportunity was write on it for us to live forever!"

She laughed nervously.

Lin flicked the ash off the end of his cigarette and grinned at her.
"That would have been tempting Fate!" he said....

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DESTINY UNCERTAIN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
