ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of This World is Ours!, by Emil Petaja

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: This World is Ours!

Author: Emil Petaja

Release Date: July 19, 2021 [eBook #65874]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THIS WORLD IS OURS! ***





                         "THIS WORLD IS OURS!"

                            By Emil Petaja

              ORION was something new in science fiction
            magazines; it printed stories about aliens and
            passed them off as the truth--which they were!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                               July 1952
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"He must die. It will look like an accident."

"Shouldn't we take him back with us?"

"We are far from through here. Don't tell me you are developing a
sympathy for these miserable creatures?"

"Impossible. I merely assumed he might be of some further value in our
great crusade."

"He must die."

Max Field was listening at the door. He moved back so he could breathe
again. Those dozens of little wounds in his chest and on his arms
and neck stung like fire. His amiable young features were tense but
resigned. This was the end, period....

Outside the little cabin an owl hooted. It was a lonely sound. But it
was a familiar earth sound, and it brought a lump to his throat.

If only there was some way to outwit them. But he had thought of
everything; apparently so had they. That window, for instance, was
shuttered and bolted from outside. A sudden noise would bring them in
here in no time. The back wall was up against a cliff. There was no
outside door in this room.

He was supposed to be drunk, befuddled. But he hadn't drank any of the
champagne. In that, at least, he had outwitted them. He was to die. No
question about that. The only question remaining was--how.

He sat down on the edge of the bed and pulled out the little notebook
he'd been, at odd moments, scribbling the whole story in. Force of
habit, perhaps. Max was a science fiction writer. He flipped through
the pencilled pages. Worth money, this story. He smiled ironically. Yet
who would read it, much less believe it.

Somebody might, he decided. He would hide it somewhere in this room.
Maybe slip it through a crack in the flooring, a few pages at a time.

He pulled out a stub of pencil and added that final shuddery scene.
_Alice. Alice...._

Outside, the owl hooted.

       *       *       *       *       *

It started, as so many stories do, with my phone ringing. I was eating
cigarettes and pounding out a cover novel for _Gizmo_. If there is
anything that gripes me where I live it is some joker calling me up
when I'm busy producing and--

"Hello. Yeah. This is Max Field, the science fiction writer. And while
we're on that subject, I happen to be--"

"I am Wallace Starr." It was a funny voice. Funny-strange. It sounded a
little like rubbing two pieces of sandpaper together.

"Really?"

I pushed out my current Camel and sneaked in a few pecks at the old
Underwood. So sandpaper-voice was Wallace Starr. Maybe I was supposed
to turn handsprings.

"You don't know me," the heckler went on, "but I am very familiar with
you and your work. I have an important project in mind. A new monthly
science fiction magazine to be called _Orion_. I need a good assistant
editor. You were suggested."

"_Orion_," I said.

"Yes. My book will feature a completely new approach. We will buy
only the best material, and each story will concern itself with the
constellation Orion and its various systems. All material will be
correlated to this end. How does this strike you?"

"You won't find it so easy pinning the best writers down to Orion," I
grinned. "Writers like Swain and St. Reynard and Ric Planter like elbow
room."

"Orion is vast and complex. One hundred and seven solar systems, to be
exact. That should provide ample elbow room."

I whistled. "Ought to. But what's the idea?"

"Novelty, Mr. Field. I have studied the imaginative magazines closely
and it occurs to me that they are already beginning to specialize. One
of them uses highly technical stories, another adheres to stories of
other planets in this system. _Orion_ will link each story with all the
others in it. Instead of a hundred interpretations of the life patterns
of _Orion_ we shall have but one. Of course casual stories we buy will
have to be revamped to fit in."

"That's where I come in," I guessed.

"Exactly. But don't you feel that we will wind up with a fascinating
pseudo-history of Orion, and that such a magazine would create a furore
with its realistic slant?"

"I guess so."

It tasted like my first olive. But Wallace Starr was obviously burning
with enthusiasm. He sounded just a little like a crackpot. A rich
crackpot, maybe.

"It will be hard work, Mr. Field. But rewarding. Are you prepared to
accept my proposition?" He spoke like a man who means business.

I hesitated. It is well-known that the mortality rate among new fiction
magazines is high. I had writing contracts to fill, I was doing okay.
Editing a monthly is a full-time job.

"About salary--" I hinted.

He named a figure that made my hair curl. What could I say but, "When
do we start, Boss?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Starr wasn't like any editor I've known. He wasn't like an editor at
all. He wasn't much like _anybody_ I've known. Which puts him in a
class all by himself. He was brown and thin and had peculiarly big
eyes, like a grasshopper's.

He spent so much money getting started I figured he wasn't long for
this racket. But he did have a knack and the first couple issues, while
not wildly successful, went over well.

One morning he called me into his office. From the tone of that dry
voice of his I knew I was in for it.

"What's all this?" he buzzed, rattling a manuscript in front of me.
From the cheap yellow paper I knew it was the lead novelette of the
forthcoming issue. Ric Planter was one of our top writers and also a
very bad boy. Ric loved to put an editor on the spot, bless his little
pointed head.

"Didn't he change that ending?" I asked. The tic in my left eye started
up. I had never had this twitch until the first time I saw Starr. I
think it was something about those eyes of his. Every time I looked at
him....

"He changed it all right!" Starr hissed. "He turned the Kiriki into
villains. When their benevolent plan to spread patterned contentment
throughout the circle of outer planets was just taking hold he had the
semi-civilized Green Ones rise up and destroy their power by smashing
their means of telepathic communication."

"How could he do that?" I clucked.

"Supersonic wave interrupter of some kind."

I hadn't meant that, and somehow I couldn't help grinning. Trust
Ric to latch on to the Kiriki vulnerable point. The Kiriki, as
Starr had outlined them, were highly communal. Like our ants, only
very much more advanced. They depended on this intricate pattern of
inter-communication, mind with mind, for their very existence, since
each Kiriki was by birth fitted to perform only one basic function
in their communal society. Their ingenious "Army of Patterned
Contentment" was helpless, when reduced by the adaptable Green Ones to
individuals.

"Will you please stop laughing," Starr rasped. "This hack writer of
yours has outraged the history of an ancient, noble race!"

"I didn't get a chance to read his revision," I defended myself. Starr
had grabbed it off my desk as he went through. "I told Planter the
Kiriki were good guys, not bad guys."

"Good guys, bad guys!" Starr cried. "How naive can we be. Let us hope
that our readership is on a different intelligence level, otherwise our
great plan will fail miserably."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the way he said it, and I don't think he meant to. He was mad
and the fact that my dialog had lapsed to comic book levels gave him
the idea, perhaps, that I was too dumb to worry about. There had
been other hidden meanings behind other things he'd said or done. My
subconscious mind was working on it.

"What plan is that?" I ventured mildly.

"Never mind! Get busy on this--this _libel_."

My left eye twitched. "Okay. I'll change it myself. I know Planter's
style. By the way, when am I getting that secretary you promised me? My
desk's flooded. I need a girl bad."

"Ah, yes." It was supposed to be a smile, I guess. "Very soon.
Meanwhile, kindly fill out this form."

I took it without comment and went back to my office. This made
altogether the fifth form Starr had dreamed up for me to fill out. Must
be some weird complex he had, wanting to know what color socks I prefer
and if my mother kept goats.

Anyhow, I grinned, as I grabbed up the phone and dialed Ric Planter's
number, it gave Starr ideas for my Christmas presents for the next
twenty years.

"Yeah," Ric's sleepy voice yawned. "It's me. What a head."

I passed the beef on to him, good.

"Shut up, Max," he yawned. "I was just having a little fun."

"Fun-schmun. It's _my_ job!"

"Come off it, Maxie. Okay. Tell you what. The first outline you sent me
about the Kiriki and their habits isn't nearly complete enough. Have
that boss of yours dream up a more complete dossier, just for little
ole me. I like those Kiriki, they're such smug, heartless devils."

"Listen, Starr's hot for them. He'll buy anything glorifying the
Kiriki. They're his little dream-babies."

"Sure, sure. Here's what you do, Maxie. Get Starr to make me out a
complete dossier on them, but complete. You know me. I like to use
the little out of the way touches like what color they paint their
toenails. I'll give him some stuff that will curl his eyebrows. Okay?"

"No more tricks?"

"Cross my cast-iron heart."

"Okay, Ric. But remember, Ric rhymes with tic."

"How's that?"

"Never mind."

       *       *       *       *       *

The moment Alice walked in my office I knew she was for me. I guess
every guy has a girl all built up in his imagination, a girl who is and
has everything he likes. Alice Corey was mine. Soft blue eyes, lots of
brown wavy hair, a little well-shaped nose, and let's just say the rest
of her was well-shaped, too. It was all there, including a lot of hard
to define details of speech and manner that were exactly right. Maybe
it was chemical, or maybe it just added up to every dream I'd ever had
about my ideal girl.

"My name is Alice Corey," she said, with soft violins in the
background. "I understand you need an editorial secretary." She went on
briskly, when I found myself speechless, "I worked two years with Tower
Periodicals in London and--"

"You're hired," I said.

"But those other girls waiting outside?"

"Would you please inform them that the job's filled--Alice?"

I had to deal with the boss about Alice. He didn't like her. She
was too pretty, he thought. Couldn't be efficient. He went over her
background with a fine-tooth comb. He found fault with most everything
about her. But I stuck to my guns. He had his Kiriki. Alice was mine
and I was damned if I would leave her out of my sight. She filled my
working hours with golden sunshine and my nights with platinum dreams.

What's more, she _was_ efficient. And she would work until twelve the
night before a deadline without a murmur. She was diffident about
having dinner with me, first, but as time went by we spent many an
evening together, strolling in the park listening to the carousel or
sipping chocolate sodas at Howard Johnson's. Alice didn't talk much,
but she was a good listener. I must have told her everything I had ever
thought or done during those evenings.

I was in such a sublime spin these days I forgot to worry about
Wallace Starr's peculiarities. The questions that had sprouted in my
subconscious began to fade. I did what I was told. So, strangely, did
Ric Planter. I supplied him with a detailed outline which Starr made up
about the Kiriki. That wasn't enough so we sent him another, with even
more details.

He kicked through with story after story about the Kiriki. Big dramatic
stories, and in each one the Patterned Contentment boys were built up
higher than in the last.

Starr purred like a kitten. He raised Planter's word-rates and my
salary.

_Orion_ caught on.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fans loved the idea of a pseudo-history of a whole constellation of
systems. The Kiriki, with their breathtaking crusade of contentment,
sweeping over system after system until finally it outdistanced Orion
and tentacled out from their home system into deepest space.... It
captured the imagination. Where would it end?

Eventually we hit _Life_ magazine, with a big spread. The slicks
went after Ric Planter, but Starr had him tied up with an iron-clad
contract. After all, the conception was Starr's. And I could see why
he wouldn't let Planter hit the slicks. Because _he_ could not dictate
their policies. Only in _Orion_ could he manipulate the strings from
behind. The Kiriki were his babies and they must follow _his_ pattern.

The night before our anniversary issue went to press it happened.

I had left Alice on her doorstep, just off the Drive. It was almost
midnight, a blazing hot July night. Everybody and his dog was out for
a breather. The Drive was alive with young lovers, old lovers, and dog
lovers.

It hit me. In my hurry to get away from the office I had neglected to
check with Starr about a last minute cover change. Starr hadn't been in
all day. The printers would be closing the forms first thing in the
morning and I had let the change go through without Starr's okay. Starr
never came in until eleven.

I found a Whalen Drug Store and phoned Starr. No answer. I called the
operator and found out the line was temporarily out of order.

On impulse, I snagged a cross-town bus. I had never been to Starr's,
never been invited or particularly wanted to visit him. He lived in a
loft not far from Third Avenue.

It was an ordinary type building of ancient vintage. It would never cop
an Oscar for beauty, nor did it smell from Chanel No. 5. I made my way
up in the half-dark from one landing to another without enthusiasm.
I don't know just what it is about musty office buildings, after
they've been darkened and bedded down for the night; it isn't anything
calculated to cheer. Six flights, and no elevator after eight.

I could see right away that Starr loved to be alone. Most of the
upper-floor offices were empty. My mind snagged hold of some creepy
ideas as I mounted those stairs. I thought about Starr's odd ways,
his odd voice, for that matter. As if he had a machine down in his
throat, a talking machine designed by a clever somebody who had once
heard a human voice. About how hepped Starr was on the Kiriki, how
painstakingly he had drawn them. He talked about them as if they were
real. Of course, being a science fiction writer myself, I understood
that brand of wackiness, or thought I did.

I rapped on his door.

There was light pushing out under his door so I knew he must be there.
It was noisy inside, which was why he hadn't heard me. I bent my ear
closer. What a noise! It sounded like a bullfrog-grasshopper duet.

I banged on the door again. No answer.

I tried the doorknob. It turned. I was half in when I stopped cold.
This I did not believe. Put it on a book jacket and label it Edd
Cartier and I'll buy it.

I blinked to make it go away but it wouldn't. I whimpered. So it
_was_--what my mind had been half-suspecting for months, and laughing
at itself even as it suspected--it was _true_!

       *       *       *       *       *

The Thing at the machine was a giant insect. Ten feet high, at
least. It was brown-green and had lots of claw-like appendages. The
most terrible thing about it was its familiarity. I had surveyed it
critically on half a dozen of our cover originals.

I had quibbled with our artists about it. Not horrible enough, I had
said. Well, it was. It was horrible....

It was busy with that machine, making noises into a cone and twisting
dials and knobs with its many appendages. The noises it made were
carefully inflected. Speech, in fact. It was talking into the cone,
which absorbed the sounds, and transmitted them--where?

My shoes were glued to the floor.

The Thing finished talking, snapped off the machine, turned. It saw me.

It yelled and tried to duck out. It moved in a blur. Seven pairs of
claws flexed out and grabbed for me. Some of the weaving cilea touched
me. I screamed at the sting, like a dozen raking barbs, tearing my
clothes and me.

I made the hall, yelling.

But I couldn't reach the stairs. It got me. It pinned me over the
elevator shaft. I bent back further and further so those tentacles
couldn't rake my face. Those criss-cross insect eyes were cold as ice,
emotionless. The barbs made ready to tear me to rags.

I shrieked and let myself fall. First I didn't think to save myself.
Better a clean jolting death than those hundreds of needle-like cilea.
But my hands grabbed involuntarily for something. They caught the
cable, clung to it.

It was greasy. I went down fast. I wrapped my legs around it, which
helped a little, straining to hold back. When I hit bottom I think
every tooth in my head jarred loose. My legs collapsed under me like
rubber. For a minute I blacked out.

       *       *       *       *       *

The buzzing over my head snapped me up. I was a goner if I didn't move,
but fast. Sobbing, I wrenched my legs to a crouching position, and
leaped down off the elevator. I dove for the front door. Then I was
outside, gulping air, running like billy-hell for the Lexington subway.

I didn't know what else to do, so having put half of Manhattan between
me and It, I telephoned Alice. I needed the sound of her voice. I
needed her to stop me from shuddering. My tic was slowly jerking my jaw
out of alignment.

She listened patiently while I dumped in dimes.

"Max," she asked when I had finished. "Are you _sure_ you haven't been
eating benzedrine tablets?"

"No! And I'm not drunk!"

"Where are you now?"

"Some joint in Harlem."

"How long have you been in there?" She sounded suspicious.

"Alice!" I groaned. "If you could only see me! My suit's ripped in a
dozen places. I'm all greasy where I slid down the cable and my hands
are burned raw. I hurt."

"Poor boy," she soothed. She was silent for a moment, then became her
briskest self. "Listen, Max. We have to consider every possibility.
This might be a self-hypnotic illusion brought on by overwork.
Remember, you've seen these things on many covers and interiors, too.
You've lived fictionally with the Kiriki for a year. Consider that--"

"Nuts!" I yelled. "I'm going to the police!"

"And spend the night in the drunk tank?" Alice queried severely. "Just
who do you think will believe your story?"

"I can take them to this loft."

"Think, Max! What will they find? Nothing! Even if it is true, do
you imagine this--this Kiriki is going to be caught like a fish in a
barrel? He has been spotted. Obviously, he will leave the loft at once."

She was so right, and I knew it. I groaned.

"Who or what is this Thing?" Alice asked, but it was plain she only
half-believed my story.

"That's easy," I said bitterly. "I should have caught on months ago.
It's Wallace Starr. Starr is a Kiriki."

       *       *       *       *       *

Having better sense than to go home, I rented a cheap room on 125th
Street. I didn't sleep much. I paced and ate cigarettes. Very early
next morning I woke up a cleaner on Third Avenue and bought a cheap
uncalled-for suit out of his window. It was the most uncalled-for suit
I ever did see, but it fit pretty well and made me decent.

A quick coffee and I went up to the office. I had given Alice strict
orders not to come to work until I phoned her. I didn't want her mixed
up in this. Starr hadn't liked her from the first. Maybe he figured
she might catch on to him better than me.

I picked up a manuscript from the slush pile, called _Challenge of the
Slime People_. The phone made me jump.

"Morning, Maxie. This is Ric Planter."

"Ric," I found myself blurting. "The most terrifying thing has
happened!"

"Invasion of Kiriki, no doubt."

Planter had that way. You wanted to wring his neck. Somehow, the way he
said it, made me backtrack. I didn't want to get the horse laugh from
him and all fandom. For the first time I asked myself, _could Alice be
right?_ Could it have been an illusion?

"Listen, Ric, how does this sound for a plot? Suppose an alien, but
alien, culture from the stars decides it wants to take over our system.
They don't want to just drop in on us. They dislike physical warfare
because it isn't orderly. Also they don't want to kill any of their
numbers, or their potential slaves. Also a sudden alien invasion might
drive humans completely off their rocker.

"So here's what they do. They send down a secret fifth columnist. His
job is to spread propaganda over the planet, to prepare humans for
their advent, make them amenable to this alien culture. Of course he's
to build them up in human minds, make them think their cosmic crusade
is beneficent and noble. How would he start?"

"Buy a newspaper. Buy ten."

"Under ordinary circumstances, sure. But wouldn't it be hard to slyly
mention what great guys the Whoziz are in a daily newspaper? Any
comment about his home folks would stick out like a sore thumb. No. It
would have to be something less obvious. How about him buying a science
fic--"

A long thin shadow blotted the opaque glass door in front of me. The
door opened. Wallace Starr stepped in.

"Shall I get to work on it?" Ric asked.

"Yeah. And make it good." I hung up.

Starr walked over to my desk. I picked up my letter opener.

"You might have told me," he preluded.

"What?"

"The changes naturally. I spent three hours at the printers last night.
Didn't get home until after two."

       *       *       *       *       *

He stalked into his office and slammed the door behind him. Then I
phoned the printers.

"Lemme talk to Corky," I told the girl who answered.

"Mr. Corkendahl is not here," her Brooklynese voice trilled. "Mr.
Corkendahl is home in bed, on account of he spent half the night
rechanging some changes for Mr. Starr."

"Was Mr. Starr there last night?"

"Why yes."

"Sure?"

"Mr. Corkendahl informed me he was here until almost two. Mr.
Corkendahl is not in the habit of prevaricating, Mr. Field."

I hung up in a daze. If Wallace Starr was definitely not in his loft
apartment at twelve-thirty last night, then.... I rang up Alice. No
answer. I rang her every fifteen minutes until she did.

"Where were you?" I demanded.

"Why, Max." She sounded piqued. "All right, I'll tell you. I was up at
Wallace Starr's apartment."

"But he's here!"

"I know. I waited until he left. Then I went up to the loft. I told
the janitor I worked for Mr. Starr and he let me in. I went over the
place with a fine-tooth comb. Max, there's simply nothing there to get
excited about. He's quite neat for a bachelor. Everything very prosaic
and natural, except for that big amateur radio of his."

"Amateur radio?"

"You know. Amateur sending and receiving. Mr. Starr is a ham."

"H-ham?" I swallowed hard. "Alice, you're right. I'm going off my
rocker."

"Just overwork," she protested, soothingly. "You take your science
fiction too seriously. What you need is a nice vacation, away from the
office and everything that even smells like work."

"I'll do it," I said meekly. Right then a thought hit me. It had been
simmering in my mind for a long time. Now it exploded into words.

"Alice--let's make it a honeymoon!"

She gasped. "Max, are you sure you're well enough?"

"Am I? You're just what the doctor ordered to put me back on my
rollers. Will you marry me, Alice? Please?"

"Yes, Max. Whenever you say."

       *       *       *       *       *

We told nobody where we were going for our two weeks' honeymoon, least
of all Starr. He grumbled for a while, then kicked through with a nice
fat check for a wedding present, along with a bottle of good champagne.
We hopped in a rented jallopy and headed north along the river.

There was a pale round moon overhead and as we got out of the city and
night came on it brightened and made a glowing path on the water. After
while we left the main road and headed into the Catskills. At last we
dipped down into a deep little glen where there was a cosy two-room
cabin I'd often rented before when I had a tough writing assignment
that demanded absolute solitude.

There was no one within miles.

We unloaded the car like a couple of kids. I had practically bought out
a delicatessen. Then Alice started fussing around the cabin, putting
away my fishing tackle and hanging up some curtains and pictures she
had picked up at Woolworth's. I kept on pinching myself to believe she
had really married me and marveling how every little thing she did
suited me perfectly.

"Hungry, darling?"

"You said it!" I made a tentative bite at her ear, grinning, but she
eluded me teasingly.

I uncorked the champagne, managed to spill my first glass, then decided
I was too hungry to bother with it now. We ate cold chicken and all
kinds of fixings. Outside the night lay deep and warm. The moon
shimmered on the evergreens.

I got up from my chair and went to Alice.

Now she wanted that kiss. She put up her lips.

I kissed her.

The world rocked.

A buzzing noise sounded behind me. It made my blood crawl, because it
was familiar. I jumped back from Alice just in time.

"No," I moaned. "_No--Alice!_"

But it happened.

I imagine that I'm the only man who ever kissed his bride on their
wedding night, then watched her turn into a monstrous bug before his
eyes....

       *       *       *       *       *

Outside the owl hooted.

Max Field tossed aside his notebook and pounded his knee with his
fist. God! To have _seen_ that happen! To sweet little Alice!

His dream girl. But naturally. She had been too perfect, actually.
She was designed for him, perhaps only a clever illusion clothed in
flesh by his own imagination. At any rate she was the reason for him
filling out all those forms. To discover just what he liked in every
department. To give them a pattern for "Alice".

They were cute. Even to the point of having Starr pretend to dislike
her. When Starr pretended to poke carefully into her background, that
was enough to prevent Max from doing just that. Because actually she
had no background. It was phony.

That phone call he had made to Corky. The girl who answered. That could
have been Alice, using a heavy Brooklyn accent to cover her voice. She
had been so convincing he hadn't bothered to check back later.

Now, the two of them were in the kitchen planning his death. "Science
Fiction Editor Accidentally Killed in Mountain Retreat. Bride
Stricken." Then the grief-stricken bride would carry on in his place.
_Orion_ was going great guns now. It really didn't need Max Field.
And without him their propaganda machine could move forward all the
faster--forward to the day when the Kiriki cosmic crusade moved down
into this solar system. The Patterned Contentment boys would take over.
Whose pattern? Kiriki, of course....

The kitchen door opened slowly. Max tensed.

It was--_Alice_.

She wore that clinging black lace negligee he had bought in an
exclusive Fifth Avenue shop.

"Max."

He stood up stiffly, staring.

"Change, damn you! _Change!_"

"Why, Max," she pouted. "Don't you love me any more?"

It was intended to drive him nutty, maybe to suicide.

"You should have drunk the champagne," she said softly. "It would have
been easier for you. Would you like a drink now?" She held out a glass.

All of a sudden he wanted that glass more than he had ever wanted
anything in his life. Even Alice. It was the end of the line, the
dropping off point. He couldn't take it any more. Not Alice--like that.

He walked over to her and took the glass. He lifted it to his lips.

       *       *       *       *       *

Something slapped the glass out of his hand as the window behind them
shattered inward. Alice flashed an angry glance at the face in the
window, then moved quickly back into the kitchen.

"Ric!"

Max's bewilderment changed to sudden hope.

"Hurry!" Planter cried. "Get through this window!"

Max dove through while the writer yanked him by the elbows. Max was
shivering and sweating at the same time. But the cool night breeze
helped a little.

"W-where in the billy-hell did you--"

"Come from?" Ric finished. "Been on Starr's trail for weeks. Had this
thing figured out for some time, even before you tipped me off on the
phone that day. I followed Starr here. Been watching and waiting."

He was wearing a fish-basket and, incongruously, it was filled with
bombs. He handed some to Max.

"Start heaving. Aim for the kitchen door before they close it."

He tossed a handful of the bombs into the room. Max followed suit.
Inside, the bombs broke, letting out a pungent gas.

"What is it?"

"Insecticide," Ric grinned. "More potent than DDT. Those outlines Starr
made out furnished the clews. It should do it."

"Won't they get out the kitchen door?"

"Uh-uh. I sealed it up proper. It and the window."

The door between the rooms slammed shut but not before half a dozen
bombs had got through. Ric slammed the shutters too. They waited.

"If it doesn't kill them it'll put them to sleep for hours. Basically,
from Starr's dossiers on the Kiriki, they have all the vulnerable
points of our grasshoppers. And fire will destroy them utterly. I'm
afraid we can't take chances, so this cabin will have to go. Match?"

       *       *       *       *       *

They watched it burn down to the last slab of stilted-up planking. Max
stared down at the two small charred remainders of the Kiriki advance
guard and shuddered.

On the road back to New York, Max said: "Do you think they'll try it
again?"

"The Kiriki? Not for a while. Like you said, they dislike war. They
like it the easy way."

"Propaganda. Invasion of minds. Well, two can play at that. We'll keep
_Orion_ going--only we'll print the real story. We'll make men detest
and despise the Kiriki so that any feelers they send down will send
them hopping to the furthest end of space. Maybe we can get somebody
started on that telepathic wave interrupter of yours, too. So if they
do land we can cut them off from each other. We'll work on this reverse
propaganda hard."

Max jerked his eyes back on the road and put his foot on the gas hard.
Sure he would work, work to save his sanity, too.

It wasn't going to be easy to forget a lost dream--a dream that had
lived and breathed and promised a lifetime of patterned contentment. It
would take a lot of mental welding to hold back the horror of that kiss.

But he would try.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THIS WORLD IS OURS! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
