ï»¿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Guaranteed--Forever!, by Frank M. Robinson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Guaranteed--Forever!

Author: Frank M. Robinson

Release Date: August 25, 2021 [eBook #66138]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GUARANTEED--FOREVER! ***




                         GUARANTEED--FOREVER!

                         By Frank M. Robinson

               Manning had spent his life exposing mail
            order frauds. But Forsythe's outfit topped them
            all. Its products were too good to exist--yet!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             November 1953
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Clark Street, just north of Chicago's Loop, was the symbol of a million
things, all of them bad, Manning thought. Bumpy paving bricks rutted
with street car tracks and bordered on both sides by cheap saloons
and quarter-a-night flop houses. Hot summer nights when the drunks
clustered like flies on the sidewalks and Newberry Park was crowded
with cranks trying to save the world and floozies just trying to make
a living in it. Old magazine stores where a nickle bought a copy of an
old comic magazine and a five spot bought photographs guaranteed to
make a high school kid's eyes pop out.

Clark Street, where a thousand and one manufacturing gyp artists had
office space.

He slowed the car and went through the motions of parking. He jockeyed
it in towards the curb. There was a scraping sound, and he cut the
motor.

"You ought to watch it, Fred," Wheeler said. "You scraped the paint."

"It's just a scratch," Manning said quietly. "Just the fender."

"You scrape a fender on these models," Wheeler said doggedly, "and you
have to get a whole new paint job. It costs money."

Manning looked coldly at the fat man sitting next to him.

"The government's got money; it can afford it."

The fat man shrugged and changed the subject. "How did the biopsy come
out?"

"I don't know." Somewhere deep inside Manning a dozen tiny hands
plucked a pain nerve. "The doctor will send me a report in a couple of
days." The doctor had already told him that morning but he didn't want
Wheeler to know. "Let's forget it. Who's on the list this time?"

Wheeler pulled a crumpled newspaper ad out of his pocket. "The Forsythe
Company. They make carburetors."

Manning leaned back in the seat and stared a long time at the faded
store fronts that lined the street. He was only half listening to
Wheeler. Malignancy, the doctor had said. He knew what that meant.
Curtains. Humpty Dumpty was splashed all over the pavement and all the
high voltage x-ray machines and all the little isotope capsules from
the AEC weren't going to help a bit.

He forced the thought into the back of his mind and locked and barred
the mental door.

"What's the sales pitch?"

"A hundred miles to the gallon."

"That's rather high. Most of them are content with fifty."

Wheeler grunted. "That's not all. This guy doesn't use gas. He gets a
hundred to a gallon of water."

"What's he pricing it at?"

"About the usual range. Three forty-nine."

Manning frowned. "Let me see that."

The fat man handed it over and Manning ran his eyes down the ad. It
was the usual ad, complete with the enthusiastic testimonials signed
by "A. Z." of Salt Lake City and "Mrs. D. F." of Podunk Corners. After
running end around all the glowing adjectives in the body of the
ad, you got the idea you could get a hundred miles from a gallon of
ordinary tap water when you used the Forsythe Carburetor.

The trade name was bad, of course. Simply, the "Forsythe Carburetor."
Not the "Jiffy" or the "E-Z" or the "Little Marvel." But the price
was right in there. Three forty-nine, with a double-your-money-back
guarantee if not absolutely satisfied. The typical gyp ad. Something
that promised a hell of a lot in the way of savings and mileage with a
low enough price so the suckers would be willing to risk it.

"Let's go." Manning got out of the car, on the street side because of
the high curb, and glanced at the numbers on the buildings. A few doors
down, on the other side.

       *       *       *       *       *

The building was a three story brick, and old. The office of Forsythe
Carburetor Company was one flight up, at the end of a hallway where the
wooden flooring creaked and groaned and threatened to give way at any
moment. The lettering on the door was neat and precise; there was no
buzzer. Manning knocked, an authoritative type of knock.

The man who opened the door was in his early sixties, Manning judged.
Maybe a little more, maybe a little less. A big man, with thick
shoulders and a head of black hair that was just turning to white and a
friendly face with just enough lines in it to show it had been around.
You got the idea that being a pitchman was second nature, that he had
been in the sales racket for a long time.

"Mind if we go in?"

The big man shrugged easily. "Sure, come on in. Didn't think any
customers would call personally."

Once inside, Manning gave him a cold, official stare. "You Forsythe?"

The man nodded, frowning. "Something wrong?"

The innocent act, Manning thought. There's nobody here but us chickens,
boss. He flipped open his suit coat so the badge showed. "We're from
the Federal Fraud Investigating Agency, Mr. Forsythe."

He let it hang there. The usual response was a whitening of the face,
a frightened look, and then a request for credentials. Wheeler was
already reaching into his pocket for a sheaf of them; FFIA men had to
carry enough credentials to sink a battleship. But Forsythe didn't
whiten, didn't look frightened, and didn't ask for proof that they
really represented the FFIA.

"I don't understand, Mister...?"

"Manning." He made himself comfortable in a chair by the desk and
glanced around. It wasn't an impressive layout. Actually little more
than a mailing room. Packages stacked up against the rear wall, ready
for mailing, a wrapping table, and a Pitney-Bowes machine. Crude,
almost too crude.

"How long have you been in the racket, Forsythe?"

Forsythe leaned back in his chair, his hands clasped behind his head.
"You might say I've been a huckster all my life, Mr. Manning."

Life-long pitchman, Manning figured coldly. Helped the medicine man
when he was a youngster and ran away with a carnival when he was in
his teens. During the Depression he probably had a set-up on a street
corner selling spot remover, dealt in nylons during the war, and saved
enough to branch out in a big way after the war was over.

"Look, Forsythe, I don't know who put you on to this racket or whether
you're fronting for somebody else or not, but it's no go. Somebody
complains and then we have to crack down on you. We call it fraudulent
use of the mails, con games, or what have you. And an incident
under any one of them will get you ten to twenty at the local state
penitentiary."

Forsythe didn't look at all worried.

"Have there been any complaints?"

Wheeler was standing by the door, carefully snipping the end off of a
cigar. He said, "Not yet. But we like to stop trouble before it starts.
And it costs good money to investigate, to run tests. We do the public
a favor by warning you off the market, and we do you a favor by saving
you a stretch in the little brick house by the river."

"There won't be any trouble," Forsythe said with an earnestness that
seemed oddly out of place. "Actually the carburetor will give you
closer to two hundred miles to the gallon."

"On pure H two O, eh?"

Forsythe nodded cheerfully. "That's right. It's actually H sixteen O
eight, by the way."

       *       *       *       *       *

Manning felt a vein throb over his right temple. You try to do them
a favor and that's what you got. Wise guys. The whole world was full
of wise guys. All of them wanted to make a million overnight and they
didn't care how they did it. And all of them thought they could get
away with it. Okay, so Forsythe would have to learn the hard way. He
stood up.

"You take cash or check, Forsythe?"

"What for?"

"For a carburetor." Manning paused, "The government will test it and
the government will be the complainant. And I wouldn't advise packing
up and leaving if I were you. We've got ways of finding you."

Forsythe pursed his lips. "What kind of a car do you have?"

"Ford," Wheeler said slowly. "A fifty-three model."

Forsythe picked a package off the stack in the rear and made out a
receipt for the check. "You won't complain. You'll get close to a
hundred and ninety-five."

Wise, Manning thought again, bitterly. He picked up the package. "See
you around, Forsythe. Soon."

Outside, Manning shot a glance back at the building and the neat
lettering on the second floor window. "I think we ought to test that
carburetor ourselves. And I think we ought to check up on our friend
Forsythe."

Wheeler looked surprised. "Why so eager? The Bureau will test it."

Manning started the car. "It'll take six months for the Bureau to get
around to it. And in the meantime, our wise friend will be making hay
while the sun shines."

Wheeler laughed. "Hell, he'll be lucky if he makes his rent. Didn't
seem like a bad guy, though."

Manning's hands tightened on the wheel. "He's a huckster, Ray. A cheap,
grafting little huckster who's too damn big for his britches. And I'm
going to see that he gets exactly what he deserves."

Wheeler looked worried. "Don't ever get too personal about it, Fred.
You gotta have an objective viewpoint all the time."

Maybe he was making too much of it, Manning thought coldly. But when
everything else went to pot you liked to ... bury yourself in your work.

       *       *       *       *       *

"More coffee, Fred?"

"Yeah. Cream and sugar it, Judy." He poked at the thing on the table
with a pencil. "What do you think of it, Ray?"

Wheeler nibbled at his sandwich, looking like a slightly overstuffed
beaver. "I don't make a damn thing out of it. It doesn't look like
anything I've ever seen before. What did you take it apart for?"

"See what makes it tick--if it does. And I wanted to know who made it.
A lot of manufacturers stamp their parts either with a trademark or
some other kind of identifying symbol."

But the pieces that lay on the table before him didn't have identifying
marks of any kind on them. They were beautifully machined, Manning
thought. Nice machining and lots of chrome and the tolerances must have
been out of this world. And so what?

His wife came back with a steaming cup of coffee and Manning dangled a
doughnut in it. The simple things, he thought abstractly. That was what
made life worth living, that was what he was going to miss.

"You got any idea how it works?" Wheeler asked.

Manning shook his head. "I don't think it works at all. A convincing
hunk of machinery, something that looks pretty but does nothing."

Wheeler pointed a stubby forefinger at a small cube of metal,
approximately three inches on the side, that was apparently the heart
of the carburetor. "What do you think that's for?"

"I don't know. It's a sealed unit, something like they have in
refrigerators and washing machines. Exactly what it does, I couldn't
tell you."

"This doesn't look like the ordinary gadget racket to me," Wheeler
said uneasily. "I think we ought to call the Bureau in on it."

Manning shrugged. "National will find out all about it when we submit
our report."

"You going to open up the sealed unit?"

Manning hesitated, then shook his head. "No. If we open it before we
test the whole thing, then Forsythe would say we tampered with the
gadget and naturally it wouldn't perform as he claimed."

He reassembled it, then pushed it across the table to Wheeler. "It's
your baby, Ray. You test it. I've got something else to do."

Wheeler carefully wrapped the gadget in a chamois and stuffed it back
in the box. He cornered another doughnut and sloshed it around in the
bottom of his cup. "What did you have in mind?"

"I'm curious about Forsythe," Manning said. "I want to know more about
him. Who he is, where he comes from, that sort of thing. There might be
more to this than just Forsythe, you know. He's just the sales front; I
think there's an organization behind him."

"You want to be a hero, Fred?"

Manning smiled crookedly. "I couldn't think of a better time."

"You just never struck me as the type," Wheeler said quietly.

Manning felt a little cheap. The private eye type of thing wasn't his
line: he was pushing it only because, win, lose or draw, it would make
damn little difference to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The building agent was a small, balding man with a taste for two
hundred dollar suits and a Michigan Boulevard office. He looked guilty
when Manning showed his credentials.

"Anything I can do to help you, Mr. Manning--anything at all--just ask
me." His forehead looked a little shinier than when Manning had first
come in.

"I'd like to ask questions about one Harry Forsythe; he's running the
Forsythe Carburetor Company in your building on North Clark Street."

The building agent looked cautious. "Is something wrong?"

"Could be," Manning said slowly. "We're investigating him."

"I'm not my brother's keeper, Mr. Manning." The agent laughed, a
little hollowly. "You know how it is. We'll rent to almost anybody who
comes along. They don't always tell us full details of their business
although, believe me, we try to rent to only true Americans."

Manning felt tired.

"We're not chasing commies. This is just a simple case of fraudulent
use of the mails. Nothing that will involve you in any way."

The man dabbed at his forehead with a light blue, silk handkerchief. He
looked a lot more cheerful.

"We'll be glad to cooperate in any way we can."

Manning helped himself to a cigar from the open box on the desk.
"Thanks. You can begin right now. Did Forsythe present any credentials
or references when he rented his office?"

The agent held up his hands.

"We don't require references or credentials, Mr. Manning. They tell us
what business they're in and that's about all we ask them."

"And Forsythe said he was in the manufacturing and sales business,
right?"

"Actually a little more than that. He mentioned something about being
in the antique business, too."

Manning felt incredulous. "Didn't you think it strange that a whole
manufacturing business could fit in an office that was no bigger than
this one, let alone an antique business? His carburetor is made of
metal; it requires stamping, machining, spraying. A whole factory full
of machines would be required!"

The agent started to sweat again.

"I think I told you that we don't ask them detailed questions, Mr.
Manning. In this case it seems obvious that he's using the office only
as a sales outlet. Somebody else supplies him with the carburetors."

Manning bit savagely into the end of his cigar.

"I thought of that. I've had his office shadowed for the last
week. He's had everything else delivered to him--refrigerators and
typewriters and sofas and stoves. But no carburetors."

The agent looked a little smug. "It's a free country, Mr. Manning, he
can order what he wants. And if your men didn't see any carburetors,
then I would start to worry about their reliability. Forsythe must get
his carburetors from somewhere and he must have them delivered."

Manning flushed and stood up to leave. "And if I were you, I'd start to
worry about whom I rented office space to. And I'd start to worry about
the condition I kept my buildings in. I would've sworn that there were
at least a dozen violations of the civic fire ordinance there."

"But really, Manning! I had no...."

Manning started for the door. "Thanks for all the information I didn't
get. And thanks for the cigar."

       *       *       *       *       *

He stood on the street for a few minutes after leaving the building
agent's office. It was a hot summer day, the only relief being the
slight breeze that blew off the lake. The street was crowded with
men in seer sucker suits, sweltering in the heat and mopping their
foreheads. Young girls in thin blouses and light weight skirts, as
young girls always seemed to do, managed to look cool and fresh.

His last summer, Manning thought slowly. Take a good look and enjoy it
while you can.

He walked slowly towards the Loop, looking at the scenery along the way
as if he had never seen it before. It was a great world, he thought.
But you didn't begin to appreciate it until you found out that one of
these days you weren't going to be around any more.

He stopped in at a cigar store near Madison street.

"Some fine Havanas just came in, Mr. Manning."

There was a time when he had thought about cutting down on smoking. It
didn't make much difference now.

"A half dozen should do it, Jeff."

The clerk wrapped them up. "Any razor blades or shaving cream? And we
got a new order of fountain pens. Guaranteed to last a lifetime without
re-filling."

Manning stuffed the package of cigars into his pocket. "No thanks. I
don't care much for ball-point pens anyway."

The clerk looked a little disappointed. "Pens are kind of hard to move
during summer; guess most people think of them as Christmas presents.
That's what I tried to tell the man who sold them to me. They're not
real ball-points, though."

Guaranteed to last a lifetime, Manning thought suddenly. A lifetime.
Not just for a year or for a solid mile of writing--but a lifetime.

"Let me see one."

It looked like an ordinary pen, the style obviously patterned after a
Parker. There was some engraving on the clip. Manning held it up to the
light and read it. A Forsythe pen.

"How much?"

"Two forty-nine. Good looking pen for that price."

And what did you get, Manning thought, outside of a stainless steel
clip and a fancy plastic barrel? Ten to one it leaked all over you the
first time you clipped it in your pocket.

"Did you try them out before you bought them, Jeff?"

"Sure--worked pretty good, too."

For the first few days, Manning thought sourly. And then, like the one
horse shay, it probably fell apart all at once.

"Wrap one up. And give me a copy of the newspaper."

He took the paper to the reading room of the public library at Randolph
and Michigan and thumbed through it. Wheeler had missed a lot, he
thought. There were Forsythe Carburetors, good for a hundred miles
to the gallon of water; Forsythe pens, good for a lifetime; Forsythe
lipsticks that would last for years; Forsythe hairbrushes with bristles
that never broke.

All everyday items, all with impossible claims, and all attractively
cheap.

Forsythe wasn't doing things in a small way, Manning thought slowly.
But where did he get the goods? And who made them? And if Forsythe was
a front, who for?

       *       *       *       *       *

Clark Street in the late evening was a canyon of yellow street lights
intermingled with the flicker of red neon. Manning stood in the shadow
of a store front, watching the building across the street. The lights
were out in all the windows; the building was dead.

He walked around the block and came up the alley in back. A cat leaped
silently off a window ledge and Manning smiled to himself. No watch
dogs. The rear door was locked but not barred and a thin sliver of
strong steel inserted between the frame and the door sprung the lock
with a small click. He closed it quietly behind him, listening for any
sounds in the building. There were none.

He picked the lock on the Forsythe office and eased himself in. The
crates and the packages were in the back room, a small filing cabinet
by the window. He opened the cabinet and rifled through the two top
drawers. There was nothing but mail orders from all over the country
addressed to the Forsythe Company. A small but steady volume of
business over a period of about six months.

The bottom drawer was something else again. Invoices between the
Forsythe Company and the Timely Trading Corporation of Oswego City, New
America. Shipments and receipted bills. Manning looked at them blankly.

There wasn't any Oswego City, New America.

And Forsythe didn't pay off in money. He paid off in refrigerators.

And electric stoves.

And furniture.

And sports cars.

It didn't make sense, Manning thought, unless it was some kind of
cover-up.

There was a rattle at the closed door and Manning ducked behind a
crate. The door swung open and Forsythe came in, followed by another
man. Forsythe flicked on the light switch and made himself comfortable
at the desk. The stranger, a younger, somewhat smaller man, glanced
shrewdly around the office.

"You don't have much of a layout here, Forsythe."

Manning watched the stranger carefully. He had the same sort of
detached attitude that Forsythe seemed to have; the attitude you had
when you went to a museum, Manning thought suddenly.

"We do all right," Forsythe said cheerfully. "A volume of half a
million dollars last year."

"You trade right up to the limit, don't you?" the stranger asked
casually.

"Right to the limit. How about you?"

"Not so good. I've got a poor territory. It seems capitalism went out
of style thirty years ago."

Forsythe chuckled. "That's the way it goes when the corporation hands
out territories. You pays your money and you takes your choice." He
paused. "What did you want to see me about?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The stranger suddenly stood up. Something cold and metallic glittered
in his hand.

"You've got a good territory, Forsythe. Better than you deserve. And
much better than mine."

Forsythe paled. "What do you intend to do?"

The stranger's voice was menacing. "This is a rough age, Forsythe. Any
one of a dozen things can happen to a huckster in an age like this."

There was the faint click of metal against metal and the stranger
sighted down the weapon at Forsythe, pale and sweating in the chair.

Manning stood up from behind the crate.

"I wouldn't, if I were you."

The stranger whirled. "Who are you?"

"Just an interested spectator." Manning started to walk forward. "I
think you ought to put that gun down."

The weapon lined up with Manning's chest. "No further, please."

It was quiet in the room. Forsythe was pale, his eyes darting from
one to the other. The stranger's thin face was grim and a little
frightened. Manning's was impassive. Of the three of them, he was the
only one who didn't give a damn what happened.

"Put it down, son."

There was a slight muscular tensing in the stranger's hand and Manning
dropped to the floor, rolling so he hit the stranger's legs. Then the
man was down, grunting heavily as he hit the floor. Manning caught the
gun hand and tried to bend it back, to force the stranger to release
the weapon. Then the man kneed him in the stomach and Manning suddenly
loosened his grip, gasping. The stranger ducked around Forsythe and
dove for the door; then he was gone, his footsteps echoing down the
hallway.

Manning got up and dusted off his pants. Forsythe was standing by the
door, looking somewhat dazed by the sudden turn of events.

"Maybe I should've let him finish you off," Manning said in a tired
voice. "It would have saved the state money."

Forsythe brushed back his hair with a shaking hand. "Thanks a lot for
saving my life, Manning. I appreciate it."

"Think nothing of it," Manning said cynically. "But if you're
so grateful, how about telling me what this is all about? Who
manufactures your goods, who's behind you?"

Forsythe shook his head. "You wouldn't believe me if I told you,
Manning. And I can't tell you."

"That makes a lot of sense," Manning said sourly. He started for the
door. "I'm going to send the cops back to watch this place. It might be
a good idea to take you into protective custody, too."

Forsythe smiled faintly.

"Before you leave, Manning, I'd like to give you something." He shoved
a package into Manning's hands. "Take this as a gift."

Manning slipped the small package into his pocket. "You shouldn't have
done that," he said tightly. "Don't you know what the penalties are for
bribing an agent of the government?"

Forsythe looked hurt. "But this isn't a bribe, Manning."

Manning laughed curtly. "Tell it to a court."

       *       *       *       *       *

He slept late the next morning. He opened the package after breakfast.
When he did, his face grew white and his hands trembled slightly.
Forsythe had somehow guessed. And rubbed it in.

He looked at the small bottle closely and held it up to the light.
There wasn't any such thing, of course, no matter how hard he wished
there was. It was sheer quackery. A laboratory analysis would reveal
a bottle of sugar water. There wasn't any doubt but what Forsythe was
trying to peddle it, along with his fountain pens and carburetors.
Exhibit A against the Forsythe Company, he thought.

He crossed over to the telephone stand by the window. It was raining
out, a summer thunder shower where the clouds boiled black against the
sky and the rain beat against the glass with a hundred hands, trying to
force its way inside. A dull and gloomy day that went well with the way
he felt.

He dialed Wheeler.

"Ray? How's Forsythe?"

Wheeler's voice was dry.

"_I don't know, Fred. His office is cleaned out. He's disappeared. He
was gone by the time the cops got to his office last night._"

They would have to do the leg work all over again, Manning thought
slowly. But it shouldn't be hard to do. Pitchmen always stayed in the
same business, even if they had to get a different tent occasionally.

"What about the carburetor?"

Wheeler laughed a little bitterly.

"_I gave it to the kid to install in the car. He did. Claimed it
actually ran on water, but that's something we'll never know for sure.
Kid was in an accident this morning. Nothing happened to him but the
whole engine block is demolished. So's the carburetor._"

But Wheeler's son had claimed it actually worked, Manning thought
chaotically. That it was the real McCoy. And Jeff at the cigar store
had claimed the pens had actually worked, too.

What if it was all on the level? Oswego City, New America. There wasn't
any such place. Not yet, there wasn't. But sometime in the future? And
what better way of merchandising than selling goods at different times
in history, goods that fit right in with the times? You wouldn't want
to flood the market, of course, but you could make a tidy profit. In
money? Hell no. Hadn't the building agent said Forsythe was an antique
dealer?

Stoves, refrigerators, sports cars. In some future age they would be
valuable as ... antiques. Forsythe said he had been a huckster all
his life. Where? And when? Maybe hucksters like Forsythe had peddled
stainless steel swords and shields to the Roman legions. And maybe
a huckster had stopped by to see Gutenberg about a small matter of
printing paper....

And in his own age, hidden among all the ads for quack remedies and
miraculous gadgets, there were a few ads that were genuine. Some
people probably had carburetors that ran on water and some office
workers pens that never wore out and maybe some high school girl used a
lipstick that was going to last her the rest of her life.

And a time machine would explain where Forsythe got the carburetors and
other goods without having them delivered through the streets, and it
explained how he got rid of the stoves and refrigerators and goods that
came into his office.

Manning suddenly wished that Forsythe hadn't taken off. The man had
something now that would be a sure fire sale. And people needed it
desperately, far more than they needed gadgets or carburetors or pens
or hairbrushes.

Wheeler's voice was buzzing on the phone.

"_What do we do with the case now, Fred?_"

Manning glanced out the window again. It was a beautiful day, the
clouds were black velvet and the rain drops were diamonds.

He looked down at the small vial in his hand. The label read:
_Forsythe's Cancer Cure_.

The real McCoy.

Manning lifted the phone and spoke into it.

"We don't have a case any more, Ray." He paused, then said: "I just
swallowed Exhibit A."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GUARANTEED--FOREVER! ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
