The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Disembodied Man, by Larry Maddock

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Disembodied Man

Author: Larry Maddock

Release Date: September 13, 2021 [eBook #66283]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DISEMBODIED MAN ***





                          The Disembodied Man

                           By Larry Maddock

                George remembered riding on the El with
             the sad girl across from him. Then there was
            nothing--nothing but blackness, and a voice....

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                              April 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


_This, he thought, is a crazy way to die._

"_You're not dying, George. You're just beginning to live._"

_He started, tried to see her. I didn't say anything!_

_"Yes you did," she insisted, in that same low voice. "You said, 'This
is a crazy way to die.'"_

_George tried to prop himself up on his elbows--but suddenly he
realized that he had no elbows!_

_"Don't worry, George. Just rest. You'll be all right."_

_How--where am I?_

_"Just rest," she repeated, and then she was gone. George thought about
her for a long time, before dropping off to sleep._

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a cold night, and lonely, for George Jameson. He paced the floor
of his apartment, back and forth, into the kitchen, into the hall,
through the bedroom, back and forth.

"God!" he said, although there was no one there to hear him. "Two
years! And where am I?"

Angrily, he reached for his coat. Maybe some fresh air would do him
good. He buttoned the coat, fumbled for his overcoat.

Then he walked outdoors.

It was snowing. The clean, white, slippery kind of snow that stays
for a while, then quickly turns into Chicago slush. Instinctively,
he turned his collar up against the cold, and headed for the El, a
sentimental relic of the 20th century just past.

The snow was coming down in big, lazy flakes that caught themselves in
the wind and buffeted against his overcoat. Streetlights cast weird
shadows across the white. George could hear the faint _crunch-crunch_
his shoes made. Half-turning he looked at his tracks behind him.

"Damn white stuff!" He hunched his shoulders more, pulled his neck down
into the folds of his collar. "Puts a pure clean blanket over the whole
world--but all you have to do is walk on it and you can see the dirt
underneath!"

George climbed the steps to the elevated, bought a ticket to anywhere.
Then he sat down and waited for a train.

There was a girl waiting with him. She was pretty. George watched her
until the train pulled in, wondering what she was doing wandering
around Chicago at this time of night.

She got on the train with him, sat down in the seat across from him.
The train whined into motion.

"Hello," she said after a while.

"Hello," he replied, startled by her voice. _People on elevated trains
don't go around saying "hello" to each other!_

"Do you mind awfully much if I talk to you?"

"Go ahead." _Nor_, he thought, _do they ask such questions of strange
men._

"Do you ever get lonely here in Chicago?"

George smiled. "Sometimes," he said. "You lonely, kid?"

"Awfully. I like to talk to strangers. Then I don't feel quite so
lonely."

"Oh."

She was quiet for a minute, her eyes friendly, but her trim body stiff
against the city.

"Don't let the town get you down, kid." He was giving _her_ advice!

She looked at him wistfully. "Maybe it's not so bad. Only the people
who are fitted to live in a world like this keep on living. There are a
lot of people who don't see it the way we do."

"Could be." She was a strange girl, he thought, to be talking this way.
Young, pretty, and fed up already. "Why do you ride the El at night?"
he asked.

She smiled. "I can meet people--other lonely people--who don't know me
and don't want to pry. I can talk to people, and learn things. And then
I never see them again. I can't talk to people in a crowd."

Through the windows he could see the lights of a sleeping city flash by
like speeding fireflies. "Never thought of it that way," he said.

Suddenly, without warning, the hurtling elevated car leaped under
him. He was thrown to the floor as the car jumped the tracks and
twisted upon itself. George saw the lights go off and heard the girl
scream--and then her scream was cut off, sharply, by the grinding,
tearing crunch of impact.

Blackness.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Good morning, George. Did sleep well?"

There she was again--that soft, quiet voice! _Sleep? I don't know if I
did or not. Is it morning?_

"Yes--a beautiful morning." Her voice was like lilacs, George thought.
Sweet, soft lilacs.

"Lilacs? Thank you, George."

_Go away! I don't want you to hear my thinking._

"Then don't sub-vocalize. Don't worry, you'll soon get the hang of it.
Just think without trying to move your tongue and your lips, and I
can't hear you."

_Where am I?_

"You're in a hospital." Her voice was gentle, soft.

_And you?_

"I'm Karen--your nurse, George."

_How bad am I? I mean--I remember being on an elevated train when it
crashed._

"You're going to be all right. The doctors will have you all put back
together again. You just need some new parts."

_It was that bad, huh?_

"You almost died. But you're alive now. Please get well, George."

_What kind of shape am I in?_

She didn't answer immediately. "How do you feel?"

_I--I don't feel! What's the matter--! I can't feel my body! I--Where
is my body!_

"George, please try to understand. You're safe, you're alive. You're
not crazy, and this isn't a nightmare...."

_Where is my body?_ He tried to scream it, but no sound came.

"Please, listen to me. You're in a hospital. You're being kept alive
by the best doctors we have, and by machines made by those doctors.
Physically, there isn't much left of you, but we're going to give you a
new body. Please be patient. And please co-operate."

The thought was staggering. New body! _Then all that's left of me is_--

She finished it for him. "A brain in a jar, kept alive by pumps and
blood-conditioners and electronic impulses. I'm here to try to keep you
sane."

George was silent, thinking now in visual images instead of words. A
brain in a glass jar, surrounded by fantastic machinery to perform the
functions of the human body. And a woman's voice being piped in to him,
to keep him from going mad. He'd read about it somewhere--that it had
been tried, and was successful up to a point. But the patient had died.
He didn't want to die.

_I'll try_, he thought loudly. _I'll try like hell!_

       *       *       *       *       *

George Jameson, or the part of him that was in the jar, learned
quickly. It was two days before he had thoroughly mastered the knack of
thinking to himself, and sub-vocalizing only to others. On the third
day he asked Karen for a description of his surroundings.

"You're in a glass jar, about the size and shape of a normal human
skull case. Leading in through the sides of the glass are several
plastic tubes, a jumble of wires, and a thermometer. Attached to all of
this is about a hundred pounds of machinery, gauges, and such."

_I must be quite a handsome cuss._

"Oh, yes," she laughed. "Quite colorful, in fact. With those
chrome-plated fixtures, you cut quite a figure."

_You're talking to me, Karen, and you can't hear me. Tell me, is this
being broadcast all over the place, or is it strictly a personal
conversation?_

"George," she said, "you're somewhat of a novelty. The electrodes that
pick up your tiny nerve impulses--the sub-vocalization--feed the signal
into a computer-translator sort of thing that changes it into words.
Your voice is purely mechanical. It comes through earphones from the
translator. Of course, everything we say is automatically recorded."

_Is what I think--to myself, that is--is that recorded, too?_

"No." Her voice had that same gentle, understanding quality. "We
respect your privacy."

_Thanks. I don't guess there would be much I could do about it if you
didn't, though._

"I'm proud of you, George. You're taking all this quite calmly."

_What have I got to gain by getting excited?_

He could almost hear her smile. "Nothing."

_Karen._

"What?"

_You said something the other day that made me wonder. You said,
"Please get well." What did you mean by that?_

She hesitated for perhaps a fraction of a second. "Professional pride,
I guess. And maybe it was just the thing to say."

_Oh._ He was silent for a while. _Then these experiments haven't worked
out too well in the past._ It was more of a statement than a question.

He thought he detected a tightness in her voice. "George, you might
as well know. You're the first man to have ever progressed this far
without going hopelessly insane."

_It's nice to know I'm not hopeless._

Silence.

_I'm sorry, Karen. Maybe I talk too much._

"Would you like to hear some music?" Her voice was normal again,
soothing.

_That would be nice. As long as it's relaxing. Something by Debussy, or
Beethoven, maybe. And please, Karen, accept my apologies for mouthing
off like that._

She laughed, softly. "We seem to be forgetting. _You're_ supposed to
be the patient. Will you settle for Gershwin while I go hunt up some
classical stuff?"

_Gladly, sweetheart. Play it softly, huh?_

       *       *       *       *       *

_Karen._

"Yes, George."

_You know more than I do what it's best for a patient to learn. Can you
tell me all about the setup here?_

"Just what is it you want to know?"

_My body--I mean my new body. How do they build a human body?_

She laughed softly. "They don't," she said. "Medical science can do
many things, George, but they can't really _build_ a body."

_But you said_--

"They can grow one to order, almost. You know what cancer is, don't
you?"

_Yes._

"Well, the doctors here use what they sometimes call 'controlled
cancer'--to grow the human body. That way, they can do in months what
it takes Nature years to accomplish."

George puzzled over this for a moment. If he had had eyebrows, there
would have been a frown on his face. If he had a face.

_You mean--some other human being gives up his brain to make room for
me?_

"No, George. It doesn't have a brain. It's just a body, with a small
lump at the top of the spinal cord that controls the muscles." Her
voice was patient, yet urgent. He had to understand. "You see," she
continued, "because of the enormous rate of growth of the rest of the
body, the brain--or the mind--doesn't have a chance to develop. The
body has no personality--no _being_ of its own. It's your body, George.
Yours alone."

He was silent for a long time, thinking. Considering the possibilities
of a new body. It'll be mine, he told himself, all mine. To taste and
hear and feel and smell. To get cold, or warm--to sweat! To walk, to
swim, to touch her hand--to see her--to see Karen! To see Karen, who is
just a voice; to take her dancing! _How soon can I be in this body?_

"It'll be six months, anyway, George." Her voice seemed to be saying,
"Please be patient," just by the tone of it.

_Six months! Cooped up in this--this fishbowl!--for six months more?_

"I'm sorry, George. You won't be alone, though--I'll stay with you.
That is, if you want me."

He began to laugh. He laughed uproariously. He didn't care that the
translator made his laugh into a horrible thing that grated in her
ears. Part of the time his laugh was a sob, but it was all the same to
the translator.

_Do you mind if I call you Mom?_ There was a catch in his voice. _When
I was a kid I used to rely on my mother like this! I've never been so
dependent upon another woman in all my life! If I want you! I need you,
Karen. Don't leave me!_

"I won't leave you, George--" He had the feeling there was something
else she wanted to say, but she didn't.

       *       *       *       *       *

He could hear her voice faintly now. She wasn't talking to him, and he
had to strain to catch her words.

"He's all right, doctor. For the past few days all he's wanted to talk
about is his body. I've been telling him anything he wants to know."

George could barely make out a mumbled answer. It was too far away to
hear the words.

"Play the tape, doctor. You'll see what I mean."

He mustn't let her know he had overheard. He had forgotten all about
this being put on tape. He'd have to watch his words from now on. She
must have thought she had turned the microphone off when the doctor
came in. Mentally, George smiled.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Karen._

No answer.

_Karen!_

Silence.

_Karen, can you hear me?_

Where in the name of heaven did that woman go? Has she left me? Maybe
they gave me up for dead.

_Karen._ I've been sleeping--or day-dreaming. Or maybe it's the middle
of the night. Maybe she's asleep. Maybe she's gone.

_Karen!_ She must be asleep. Or maybe she's dead. Or maybe there's a
loose connection in the wiring.

_Karen!_ No answer. Nothing but that deep, dead silence. _Karen!
Testing. Testing. One, two, three--Testing. Karen. Where are you? Can
you hear me, Karen? Karen!_

It seemed like several eternities before she answered.

"George?"

He would have breathed a sigh of relief, if he could.

_I thought you'd deserted me. Were you asleep?_

She laughed that soft, vibrant laugh. "I'm sorry. I just--stepped out."

_That's okay, sweetheart. I'm all right. Forget it. But tell me about
these things next time, huh? I worry about you when you're gone._

"You shouldn't. I'm a big girl now."

_Hey! Is this being recorded?_

"Of course."

_Who listens to it?_

"Oh, a bunch of doctors and medical students."

_Any prudes in the audience?_

"Not me," she laughed. "But there's bound to be at least _one_, anyway."

_Okay_, he said. He spent the next two hours telling bawdy stories.

       *       *       *       *       *

A month later George knew he had grown to rely on Karen more and more.

In fact, he knew he was falling in love with her.

"Hi," she announced. Her voice sounded excited. "George, I just had a
look at your body. It's coming along fine--in fact, it's bee-ootiful!
I'll be with you in about ten minutes. Enjoy some music while I'm gone.
Bye!"

Then the music lanced into his brain at a tremendous volume. George
quivered in real pain as each note blared forth. It was the loudest
version of the Warsaw Concerto he ever hoped to hear. As the music
progressed, blatting its way through painful crescendos and screaming
treble notes, he tried to shut out the sound of it. It was impossible.
It was a tearing, screeching nightmare of sound, that put him back on
a hurtling elevated train with the sound of a young girl's scream in
his ears, and the pain of a body crushed beyond recognition. With a
convulsive shudder, George was unconscious.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Headache gone yet?" She was concerned.

_Yeah, sweetheart. I'd like to wring your lovely neck, though._

"I'm sorry about the music, George. I didn't have the volume adjusted.
I won't leave you alone again." There was a note in her voice that
George hoped was more than just professional concern.

_Karen! You don't have to do that! You'll be tying yourself down. And I
don't want that._

"I don't mind, George. I just don't want anything to happen to you.
You're something--someone special."

_Maybe I don't want it that way. Although I will admit I enjoy your
company--but this around the clock business isn't necessary._

"I want to do it. Okay?"

_Okay. I guess I can't stop you. Only don't you ever get tired?_

"Sometimes."

_Maybe you should let me worry about your welfare for a change. I think
you need some sleep. Lie down a little while._

"Sure, boss. Is that an order?"

_It's an order._

"I guess I am a little sleepy. Want some music?"

George shuddered. _No! No more records for a long, long time! But leave
your microphone on--I like to know that you're there._

While she slept, he carefully kept his thoughts to himself. She's
sleeping the sleep of the exhausted. The little nut, she probably
didn't go to bed at all while I was--out. She deserves all the rest she
can get.

He listened a long time to her quiet breathing. I wonder what she
looks like? Is the rest of her as beautiful as her voice? I can't help
it--I'm in love with her. I wish I was more than a brain in a bottle. I
wish I could touch her--hold her hand. Silly thought. Like a kid on his
first date.

He pictured her in his mind--lovely, vibrant, beautiful. How, he
thought savagely, could she ever fall in love with me? Simple--she
couldn't. No woman could love a freak. And I wouldn't want it that way.
She'd be throwing her happiness away.

But damn it!--I can't help it if I want her.

       *       *       *       *       *

_I'm neck deep--if I may be permitted to use such an expression--in
world affairs. The good doctor read six newspapers to me while you were
gone._

Karen laughed. "I thought he sounded a bit hoarse."

_Well--out with it, woman! Did you enjoy your first day off in almost
three weeks?_

Her voice was happier than he had heard it in days. "I went shopping,
George, for the first time in months, and really splurged. Got a new
outfit. You should see me."

_I wish I could._

"You will soon enough."

_What do you mean by that?_

"Your body's ready. You move in tomorrow."

_Thank God! Tomorrow! It is--rather hard to believe, after all this
time! I'm going to have a body._ He could almost feel a lump form in
his throat, only of course he didn't have a throat--yet. _I don't know
if I'm going to like having to put up with the pains of the flesh
again._

She laughed. Then her voice turned wistful, or maybe it was just his
imagination. "Not only the pains, George, but the pleasures, too."

_Yeah._ He was silent for a moment. Then he forced his voice to be
light. _I can't wait for those eyes, Karen. Tell me about the outfit.
What color is it--how does the cloth feel? Tell me all about it, Karen._

       *       *       *       *       *

The next day, Karen warned him just before Dr. Chase released the
sedative into his blood supply. George peacefully went into a deep,
dreamless sleep. In his mind, he could still hear Karen's voice
speaking gently to him, assuringly.

Almost instantly, it seemed, he was awake, though it took hours. The
first thing he was conscious of was a dull throbbing pain in his
head--and then he realized--_it was in his head_!

Vaguely at first, then sharply, as nerves clicked into action, he could
sense his arms and legs.

He tried moving them, experimentally. It was a painful process.

There was sound, he realized suddenly--a low, subdued noise level. But
there was no _light_!

_Karen! Karen!_ he thought sharply.

Still just that low noise level. An electric fan going somewhere.

_Karen!_ This time he felt the muscles of his throat contract. His
breath came out in a sigh of satisfaction. He had been sub-vocalizing
through long habit!

"Karen." He said it; he heard his voice.

"George! You made it!" Karen was there.

"Karen," he said again. A little quavering, but it was a voice.
"Karen!" he sobbed. "I can't see!"

"Silly!" she laughed. "Of course not--there's a bandage over your
eyes. The optic nerve is very delicate. The doctors have to give the
nerve-endings--the nerve-graft--more time to heal. Another three days
and you'll be able to see."

A low moan from his throat. "Then," he said, haltingly, "you're still
only a voice."

"Not quite," she said. She touched his cheek. Cool, soft fingers. "That
better? Now you're the one who needs some sleep."

"Karen," he said.

Silently, she took his hand in hers.

       *       *       *       *       *

At noon of the fourth day, they removed the bandages from his eyes.

The blinds were drawn on the windows, but still the light was
staggering. George squinted until his eyes became accustomed to the
brightness. Then he focused them on various items in the room.

He had just flipped the sheets back from his body and was commenting
proudly to himself, "I'm more of a man than I thought," when the door
opened.

George looked up, startled.

The most beautiful woman he had ever seen was in the doorway.

"Hi," she said, her voice as soft and vibrant as ever.

"Karen!"

She was staring, unashamed, at the body George had just fully
uncovered. "Wow!" she said.

George scrabbled for the sheets, pulled them over him.

"You should knock," he said, starting to laugh.

She came over to the foot of the bed, and slowly turned around for him.
"Well, how about me? Are you disappointed?" Her voice had an intimate,
challenging quality.

"Sweetheart," he said slowly, looking at her for what it seemed to
George was the first time, "you are lovely. You're more than I ever
dreamed. And I don't care what you say or think of me for saying this,
but I love you. I've loved you since I first heard your voice. I know
it's impossible--no woman could ever knowingly fall in love with me--a
freak, a brain in a bottle--but that can't stop me from loving you.
Maybe it's just that I'm so happy to have a body again after so long
that makes me say this...."

She had come around the corner of the bed, and was sitting on the edge
of it now. There were tears in her eyes and her hands were clasped over
his. "I know, George," she said slowly, when he had stopped. "I felt
the same way as you--when I got my new body--but I didn't have anyone
to say it to."

His eyes widened in disbelief. His mouth worked for several seconds
before the words would come. "You...."

She nodded slowly. "George, don't you remember many months ago--the
night of your accident on the El ... there was a girl on the train with
you...."

He stared at her, sudden amazement in his eyes. "Of course I
remember--but--you--you mean _you are_...."

"Yes, George. I'm the same girl--different body, of course. My case
wasn't as tough as yours. Your brain was close to death for quite
awhile before you regained conscious thought."

He looked at her incredulously. "But you said _I_ was the first to ever
go this far...."

Her face was close to his, her lips smiling. "I said you were the first
_man_ to pull through. I was praying for you George. I needed you--as
much as you thought you needed me...."

As his arms closed about her, there wasn't much else for either to
say....

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DISEMBODIED MAN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
