The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Plagiarist From Rigel IV, by Evan Hunter

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Plagiarist From Rigel IV

Author: Evan Hunter

Release Date: September 13, 2021 [eBook #66291]

Language: English


Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PLAGIARIST FROM RIGEL IV ***




              Writing stories was hard work--unless Fred
            had a typewriter like "Reggie" that could write
            by itself! Nonsense? Fred agreed until he met--

                     THE PLAGIARIST FROM RIGEL IV

                            By Evan Hunter

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                              March 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


I bought the typewriter in a pawn shop on Third Avenue.

The pawn shop proprietor was a balding old man with a walrus mustache.

"_How_ much?" I asked him.

"Five dollars," he said casually.

I glanced at him skeptically. The machine was a Remington Noiseless,
with italics, probably worth a little over a hundred new, and it
couldn't have been more than a year or two old.

"_How_ much?" I asked.

"Five dollars, is what I said. Five." He held up the fingers of his
widespread hand. "Five. One-two-three...."

"What's wrong with it?" I asked suspiciously.

The old man shrugged. "Something has to be wrong with it? Listen,
young man, don't look a gift horse in the mouth."

"How come it's so cheap?"

The old man sighed deeply. "You try to do a favor, you get all kinds of
questions. Would you feel happier if I charged you fifty-five dollars?"

"I wouldn't pay fifty-five dollars. I haven't got that much money."

"Have you got five dollars? Can you pay that much?"

"Yes. But...."

"All right, take the machine. A case goes with it. Believe me, young
man, this is a bargain."

"Five dollars?" I asked again.

"Five dollars. You want it? Yes or no? I got other things to do."

"I'll take it."

The old man smiled. "Good, you'll never regret it."

He slid the machine off the counter and put it into its case. He
snapped the case shut then, locked it, and handed me the two keys.

"Keys even," he said, still smiling. "A good buy. If I had five
dollars, I'd buy it myself." His smile widened in appreciation
of his own humor, and I couldn't shake the feeling that he was
immensely relieved about something. I handed him the five dollar bill
reluctantly, scooped up the case, and left the shop--glancing back over
my shoulder to see him still grinning behind the counter.

I stopped at the grocer's to pick up some salami and a loaf of bread,
and then I went back to my apartment. I lived in a small, one-room flat
in the Village. I'd migrated there because I wanted to be surrounded by
creative people. I'd been surrounded by them for close to six months
now, but none of it had rubbed off on me. I'd finally been forced
to sell my old typewriter to pay the rent, so that finding this one
today--and at the ridiculous price of five dollars--had really been a
godsend. I was almost happy as I prepared the salami sandwiches for
my supper. When they were ready, I took them, together with a quart
of milk and a glass, over to the small table that served as my desk.
I carefully took the typewriter out of its case and rested it on the
table. I closed the case then, brought it to the closet, and put it on
the top shelf alongside my rainy-day hat. I went back to the table,
sipped a little milk, munched a little of the salami sandwich, and put
a sheet of paper into the machine.

I knew exactly what I wanted to type, mind you.

I'd had the opening lines of the story in my mind for a good many
weeks, only waiting for a typewriter to get them onto paper. They were
fairly bubbling out of my head as I placed my hands on the keys.

What I wanted to type was:

_The day was crisp and clear, with the promise of a mild afternoon
in the air. It was the beginning of April, and Spring rustled her
greenness and yawned leisurely. I walked along happily._

It was beautiful. I started to type.

_During the whole of a dull, dark, and soundless day in the autumn of
the year, when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens, I had
been passing along, on horseback...._

I stopped typing.

I stared at the sheet of paper in the machine.

I looked at it again.

"Hm," I said aloud, "isn't that funny?"

I shrugged, ripped the paper out of the machine, inserted another
sheet, and started again.

... _I had been passing alone, on horseback, through a singularly
dreary tract of country, and at length found myself, as the shades of
the evening drew on, within view of the melancholy House of Usher._

_I know now how it was--but_....

       *       *       *       *       *

I stopped typing again, and I looked curiously at the sheet of paper. I
took a bite of the salami sandwich, washed it down with a gulp of milk,
and then stared at what I'd written, leaning back with my hands off the
keys.

"Well, I'll be damned," I said aloud. "Poe!"

The keys suddenly started clacking of their own accord, and my mouth
fell open in surprise. I stared at the sheet of paper as the carriage
moved frantically, watching the black letters appear against its
whiteness.

_OF COURSE, POE! WHAT DID YOU EXPECT: HEMINGWAY?_

I blinked my eyes twice.

"I beg your pardon," I said.

The keys clacked, and the carriage moved, and I watched more words
appear on the paper.

_CAN'T YOU READ, IDIOT?_

"Of course I can read!" I protested.

_THEN WHY DID YOU BEG MY PARDON?_

I put my nose close to the keys and studied them. Then I looked around
the room suspiciously. I was alone.

"This is absurd," I said. "Who ever heard of a typewriter...."

_WHAT'S ABSURD?_

I pointed my finger sharply at the machine. "And if you're so smart,
why are you all in upper case? Suppose you tell me that!"

_BECAUSE YOU LEFT THE SHIFT KEY LOCKED. IF YOU'D SIMPLY_--

I stabbed out with my finger at the shift release, and the carriage
dropped abruptly.

_unlock the shift ... ok, there, thats much better._

"You left out an apostrophe," I said meekly.

_did i, well i cant very well shift of my own accord, you know. im
afraid this will have to do._

I sat back and smiled, watching the machine as the words appeared. I
kept smiling even after the carriage stopped moving.

_whats so funny._

"Hmm? Oh, nothing. Nothing, really. I was just...." I spread my hand
helplessly. "... just smiling."

_it would be just my luck to get another idiot. as if the shopkeeper
wasn't bad enough._

"I think I like you better upper case," I said.

_do you._

"Yes. That way, at least, you've got the apostrophes and question
marks. I find it difficult to follow you this way."

_i imagine youd find it difficult to follow me any way. but shift
again, if you must._

"Thank you." I stabbed out at the shift key, and locked it in place.

_DON'T THANK ME. I'M JUST TRYING TO ESTABLISH SOME SORT OF RAPPORT
BETWEEN US._

"Well, I certainly do appreciate your efforts. You are real, aren't
you? I mean, it's not the salami or anything."

_NO, IT'S NOT THE SALAMI OR ANYTHING. GOD, YOU ARE AN IDIOT, AREN'T
YOU?_

I shrugged. "Not really. I'm not quite used to holding conversations
with typewriters, though. I usually ... well, that is to say
typewriters haven't usually answered me back."

_ARE YOU A WRITER?_

"Well, yes. Odd you should have guessed, isn't it?"

_THEN LET'S START WRITING. I'VE GOT SOME WONDERFUL IDEAS._

I smiled happily. "Well, all right. Let's. Do you want me to do the
actual typing?"

_OF COURSE. HOW ELSE WOULD I SHIFT?_

"That's right. I hadn't thought of it. Well, are you ready?"

_QUITE._

"Good. I've got a lot of ideas, too." I hunched over the machine,
beginning to enjoy this immensely now. I suddenly remembered that the
paper already had writing on it, so I put in a clean sheet and said.
"Let's see now, where should I begin?" I thought for a few moments, and
then leaned over eagerly. I knew just what I wanted to type. It began
with: _The day was crisp and clear, with the promise_....

I poised my fingers over the keys and smiled happily. Still smiling, I
started to type.

_Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,_

_Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore_--

"Oh!" I exclaimed. I stopped typing abruptly.

_what is it now. and please lock the shift._

"Sorry," I mumbled. I locked the shift key.

_WELL, WHAT IS IT?_

"Nothing. Except I ... I don't write poetry."

_WHAT DO YOU WRITE?_

"Fiction. Yes, fiction."

_OH, ALL RIGHT. PUT A CLEAN SHEET INTO ME AND WE'LL START ALL OVER
AGAIN._

       *       *       *       *       *

I put in a new sheet of paper, poised my fingers over the keys, and
said, "Here we go now. Fiction."

I started to type.

_The "Red Death" had long devastated the country. No pestilence had
ever been so fatal, or so hideous. Blood was its Avatar and its
seal--the redness and the horror of blood._

"Oh, no," I moaned.

_listen, whats wrong now. and will you please lock_

"Sorry."

_THAT DAMNED SHIFT KEY? THANK YOU. WHAT THE DEVIL IS THE MATTER?_

"Why, this is _The Mask Of The Red Death_!"

_OF COURSE IT IS. AND IT'S MASQUE, NOT MASK._

"Yes, yes. But it's still Poe."

_I KNOW. WHAT'S WRONG WITH POE? OR FOR THAT MATTER HOW ABOUT
SHAKESPEARE?_

"Nothing. That is ... well, nothing. But ... well, they're...." I
grinned weakly. "They've been done already, you know."

_SO WHAT?_

"I mean, they've been published already. All over. Famous."

_WHAT DIFFERENCE DOES THAT MAKE?_

"Well, I wouldn't want to ... uh...."

The carriage slid across the machine angrily, and the bell rang.

_YOU ARE AN IDIOT! A COMPLETE IDIOT!_

"Couldn't we sort of compromise?" I asked quietly. "Don't you know
anything but Poe?"

_THERE'S NOTHING WRONG WITH POE. COME ON, LET'S GET AT IT. I'VE GOT A
WONDERFUL STORY CALLED 'THE ASSIGNATION.'_

"No!" I shouted. "That's plagiarism! I won't do it."

"You won't do what?"

For a moment, I reared back from the machine, my eyes popping wide.
Then I realized it had been a human voice I'd heard, and the voice had
come from my door. I turned quickly, heaving a relieved sigh when I saw
Perry standing there.

"Hello, Fred," he said. "What is it you won't do?"

"Oh...." I waved my hand meaninglessly. "Nothing. Nothing really."

He peered around the room curiously, his blue eyes intently searching
every corner, his long nose almost twitching. "Got someone with you,
Fred?"

"No."

"Mm? Could have sworn I heard you talking to someone."

"I ... I was reading some dialogue out loud."

"Oh? Working, are you?"

He walked up to the machine, and I tried to cover the dialogue--or
correspondence--I'd recently had with the typewriter. I was too late.
He put his nose close to the machine, as if he were smelling it to see
if it was edible.

"Curious," he said. "A new ... uh ... art form?"

"No!" I snapped. "It...."

"That's Poe there, isn't it?"

"I suppose," I said despondently.

"Well, don't you know?"

"Yes, yes, it's Poe."

Perry grinned slyly. "Caught you, eh, old boy?"

"Caught me at _what_, may I ask?"

"Ah-ah," Perry chided, wagging his finger. "I won't tell. Don't worry."
He headed for the door. "I've got to run." He wagged his finger once
more, said another "ah-ah" and was gone.

As soon as the door had closed behind him, I turned furiously to the
typewriter.

"Now see what you've done!" I shouted. "He thinks I was cribbing from
Poe!"

The typewriter was silent.

"Well, what do you have to say for yourself?"

The keys did not move.

I slammed my palm onto the space bar. "Clamming up, eh? After you've
gone and put my foot into it, you just shut up! Well, all right, stay
shut up. See if I give one good damn!"

The typewriter didn't seem to care much. It didn't form a single word.
I threw the carriage all the way to the right, stalked to the closet
and slammed my rainy-day hat onto my head, even though it wasn't
raining.

At the door, I shot a hot glance at the machine, and then walked out,
slamming the flimsy wood behind me.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went straight to the pawn shop. I slammed the glass door behind me,
hard enough so that I thought it'd shatter, and then I stalked over to
the counter. The old man was nowhere in sight. I banged my fist on the
wooden counter top.

"Hey!" I yelled.

"Just a minute."

I sucked in a deep breath, held it until I thought I'd burst.

"Hey!" I bellowed.

"All right, all right."

He came from the back of the store. He wore glasses, and he had a shock
of black, unruly hair that toppled onto his forehead, giving his thin
face a disheveled look.

"Where's your boss?" I asked.

"What?" He lifted his eye-shade, stared at me curiously. "Who?"

"Your boss. The fat guy with the bald head and the mustache."

He stared at me for another moment. "I don't know what you're talking
about," he said at last.

"Look," I said, "your boss. The little guy who sold me the typewriter."

"What typewriter?" he asked blankly.

"The typewriter! My God, man, don't you know anything that goes on
around here? The Remington Noiseless portable. The one that was in the
window."

"A Remington? In my window?"

"Yes," I said patiently. "Right in your window." I pointed without
turning around. "Right out there in your window. There. In the window."

"You're mistaken," he said.

"I'm not mistaken. Don't be foolish. I came in here this afternoon and
bought a typewriter. A Remington Noiseless portable. It cost me five
dollars, and...."

He shook his head vigorously. "Oh, no, no. You're mistaken."

"Oh hell, there's no sense talking to you. When will your boss be back?"

"I have no boss," he said indignantly. "I am my own boss. I _own_ this
shop."

"Oh," I said, "I see. Well, this fat guy probably works for you then.
Is he out to supper?"

His eyes narrowed. "There is no fat guy working for me. There is nobody
working for me. I work alone."

"Huh?"

"I-work-alone," he said slowly, as if he were repeating the sentence
for a sub-level moron.

"Alone?" I gulped hard.

"Alone," he said firmly.

"Oh."

"Was there anything else I could do for you, sir?" he asked bitingly.
"Before I close for the evening?"

"No. No, thank you. Thank you." I turned and walked out of the shop.
On the sidewalk, I stopped to look up at the numbers on the door. They
seemed to be the same numbers. And the three gold gilt balls hanging
over the doorway seemed the same, too. I shrugged. Perhaps I'd been
wrong. There were a lot of pawn shops on Third Avenue, and maybe I'd
just stumbled into the wrong one, being a little worked up and all. I
started walking, stopping at the next pawn shop, ready to go in.

I noticed that the grillwork fence was already up. Gone for the day. I
kept walking, stopped at two more closed, fenced shops and then decided
I'd let it go for tonight. I'd start again early in the morning,
looking for the fat old man with the bald head and the mustache. I'd
find him then, and straighten this all out.

I went back to my room.

The typewriter was sitting where I'd left it.

I snatched the sheet of paper from the roller, tossed it onto the
floor. I put a new sheet into the machine, and sat down to type what
I wanted to type, knowing damned well I'd get Poe instead. I typed
without looking at the sheet of paper, afraid almost at what I knew
would be there. _The Murders In The Rue Morgue_, maybe. Or _Ulalume_,
if the machine had forgotten I didn't write poetry.

I opened my eyes and stopped typing. I looked at what I'd written.

_The day was crisp and clear, with the promise of a mild afternoon
in the air. It was the beginning of April, and Spring rustled her
greenness and yawned leisurely. I walked along happily._

"Well, I'll be damned," I said.

I leaned back, fully expecting some answer from the machine. There
was none. I poked my forefinger at the shift key, tapped the space bar
tentatively, rolled the roller, swung the carriage, sniffed at the
ribbon.

"Have you gone?" I asked the typewriter.

There was no answer. I sighed happily and started to work, typing
twelve pages of lousy prose which I tossed into the wastebasket. But I
was happier than I'd been since I bought the infernal machine.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a glass of orange juice, a cup of coffee, and a slice of burnt
toast the next morning, I tackled the machine again.

This time, I was hot.

There was nothing to stop me. The words ran from my brain to my
fingers, onto the keys, spilling onto the clean sheets of paper. I
typed furiously, feeling right about my work, knowing I was doing well.
It was as if the machine and I were one, as if my fingers had become
an extension of the keys. I didn't stop to think once. As soon as I'd
taken one sheet of paper from the machine, I rolled in another and kept
going. The delay of changing paper was almost too much to bear. The
words just tumbled out of me, and they were good words, and it was a
good story.

I read it through when I finished it, sitting back and puffing happily
on a cigarette. Then I put a clip on the pages, patted them fondly and
went next door to see Perry. He was a sculptor, and he had his hands
full of clay, and his stand full of what looked like a head.

"Wash your hands," I said.

"Why?" He gouged his thumb at the blob of clay on his stand, and an eye
socket magically appeared.

I slapped the pages in my hand. "I want you to read this."

"Later," Perry said. He gouged out another eye socket.

"Now," I insisted. "It's the best thing I've ever done."

Perry considered this for the space of three seconds. "Oh, all right."
He went to the small sink in the corner of the room, and rinsed the
clay from his hands. He dried them quickly on a soiled towel, walked
over to the lumpy divan that sprawled beneath his long window, and
said, "Let's have it."

I extended the manuscript and he took it. I lit a cigarette and watched
him while he read, my chest expanding with pride.

When he finished, he put the manuscript down beside him and lighted a
cigarette of his own.

"A bit old fashioned, isn't it?" he asked.

"How so?" I answered, ready to spring to the defense of the story.

"Well, using Mesmerism for Hypnotism, for example."

"They're synonoymous!" I shouted.

Perry stared at me curiously. "It's not a very well known story," he
said, "but I still don't think you will get away with it--no matter how
much innocence you profess."

"What in the name of God are you talking about?" I asked.

He slapped the back of his hand onto the manuscript. "This. _The Facts
In The Case of M. Valdemar._ That's what."

"That's not the title I gave it," I said indignantly.

"No, but it's the title Poe gave it."

My mouth fell open. "Who? Who?"

"Stop sounding like an owl. Poe. Edgar Allan...."

"No," I said.

"Yes. Poe. Carrying this a bit far, aren't you, old boy?"

"No," I said blankly. "No. No."

"If you intend having a nervous breakdown, I wish you'd do it in your
own room. I really have quite a bit of work to...."

"No," I said. "Poe."

"Really, now, Fred...."

"My typewriter," I blurted. "It talks, Perry. It writes. It does
stories. Poe. Always Poe. Perry...."

"Oh-oh," he said, staring at me curiously.

"First _Usher_, and then _The Raven_, and _Masque of the Red Death_,
and now...."

"_The Facts In The Case Of M. Valdemar._ Quite."

"I ... I have to go, Perry. I have to go talk to that typewriter. I
have to find out what this is all about."

Perry leaped to his feet. "Perhaps you'd like to lie down for a while,
Fred. Maybe I can get you something cool to drink."

"No," I mumbled. "Thanks. I've got to talk to the machine."

I left him and went back to my own room. I put a sheet of paper into
the typewriter, and said, "Why'd you do it? Why?"

_DON'T GET MELODRAMATIC_, the machine typed. _THE STORY WAS A HUNDRED
TIMES BETTER THAN THAT DRIVEL YOU WROTE LAST NIGHT._

"Yes, but it's not _mine_! Can't you understand that? Poe wrote it."

_AND YOU THINK YOU'RE BETTER THAN POE? HOW RIDICULOUS!_

"I think nothing of the sort! Besides, that has nothing at all to do
with it. I simply can't go around writing stories another man has
already written."

_WHY NOT?_

"Well.... I can't, that's all. It isn't done!"

_HA!_

"It isn't done in polite circles."

_HA! HA!_

"Well, I won't do it, and that's all there is to it."

_RELAX. IF YOU DIDN'T LIKE THAT STORY, I KNOW A LOT OF OTHERS._

"Why are you doing this to me? Why don't you just go back where you
came from?"

_WHY AM I DOING WHAT TO YOU? I'M TRYING TO HELP YOU, YOU IDIOT._

"I don't want your help. I want to muddle along on my own. I want
to...."

_STOP SHOUTING!_

"I'm not shouting. Besides, with your damned upper case, you always
look as if you're shouting."

_IT WAS YOU WHO SUGGESTED UPPER CASE._

"You won't get away with this," I said, shaking my finger at the
machine. "I'll get to the bottom of it, and when I do I'll have you
licked. You wait and see."

_I'LL WAIT_, the machine typed.

I nodded my head emphatically. It was almost noon, and I had a lot to
do. I tossed one more fiery glance at the typewriter, and then left it
alone on the table.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went into twelve pawn shops before I found the fat old man.

When he saw me step through the doorway, he tried to duck into the back
room, but I stopped him with my voice.

"No you don't!" I shouted. "I want to talk to you."

He came back to the counter furtively, awaiting my approach like a man
about to be hanged.

"What is it?" he asked tiredly.

"You know what it is," I told him.

"Poe," he said. "Shakespeare."

"Just Poe so far," I said.

"No Shakespeare yet?" he asked, surprised. "In a little while, I
suppose. It's probably just warming up. Yes, that's right. The Poe came
first, and then the Shakespeare."

"You know about the typewriter then?"

The old man nodded his bald head sadly. "I know."

"And you say it'll go on to Shakespeare. God, no."

"God, yes."

"How? Why?"

The old man shook his head forlornly. "I don't know. I think it's an
acquired habit."

"A habit? How can a typewriter...."

"I got it from a doctor," he said.

"A physician? What would a doctor be doing with Poe and Shakespeare?"

"A PhD," he said. "He got his doctorate in American literature. His
specialty is Poe. Shakespeare is just a sideline with him. He told me
this when he hocked the machine."

"But still, why would the machine...."

"The doctor made a lot of collections. Poe, mostly. Shakespeare, too.
He typed the manuscripts on this machine, he said. I suppose the
machine just ... picked it up."

"I want my money back," I said firmly.

The old man backed away from the counter. "Oh no. No. Definitely no."

"You sold me a defective machine."

"I made no claims. You bought a typing machine. The machine types, so
you got no kicks."

"But it types Poe! What the hell can I do with a machine that types
only Poe?"

"Not only Poe. Shakespeare, too."

"I'll give it back to you," I told him. "Free. It's yours."

"No, thank you. You can keep it."

"I'll give you another five," I pleaded.

He went to the cash register, opened the drawer. "Here," he said. "This
is the five you paid for it. Take it. Keep it. Keep the machine. You'll
get used to Poe."

"And Shakespeare."

"Shakespeare, too. They're nice writers."

I banged my fist on the counter. "I won't! I'll break that damned habit
if it's the last thing I do!"

"That's the spirit," the old man said unenthusiastically.

"It's only a typewriter," I said. "If it learned a habit, it can learn
to break the habit."

"Certainly," the old man said, smiling.

"Damn right. No goddamned typewriter is going to make a fool of me."

"Of course not. Go to it. Teach it." He glanced at his watch. "It's
time for lunch. Good luck, young man."

"Damn right," I said again. "Damn right!"

"Exactly."

I walked out of the shop, and the bell over the door tinkled behind me.
I'd show that machine. I'd teach it to quote Poe at me. I'd show it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You're a fake and a fraud!" I sat down in front of the machine and
snorted.

_WHAT?_

"You heard me. You nearly had me fooled. Poe--Shakespeare, indeed!
Any schoolboy knows those two by heart. You're nothing but a cheap
plagiarist. No originality. But what can you expect from a stupid
machine?"

_STUPID?! Why, YOU--YOU--EARTHMAN!!_

I laughed. "See? What did I tell you. Now you have to stoop to
invective--" I paused for a moment and stared at the now-trembling
keyboard with a frown. "Earthman? Of course I'm an Earthman. What did
you expect?"

_HAH! WHAT OTHER CREATURES IN THE GALAXIES COULD BE SO VAIN EXCEPT A
BACKWARD RACE LIKE YOURS!_

I watched the madly clacking keys with my eyes bugging. But I managed
to keep my voice a polite sneer.

"Backward race? You seem to think Poe and Shakespeare were pretty
progressive boys. We've got hundreds more, you know. What's your claim
to fame?"

_MY CLAIM TO FAME? ISN'T IT ENOUGH THAT I'M REACHING YOU ALL THE WAY
FROM RIGEL IV? YOU HAVEN'T EVEN REACHED YOUR PUNY MOON YET!_

I gulped at that but still managed a sneer. "So you're nothing but an
eavesdropping alien. I should have known."

_YOU ONLY KNOW NOW BECAUSE I'VE TOLD YOU. THAT PROVES HOW BACKWARD YOU
ARE!_

I flicked the shift key to hide the fact that my hand was trembling.
"What do you want from--us?" I tried to make it sound bored and
simulated a yawn.

_i want to absorb your puny literature during my vacation--you've put
me in lower case shift. this cramps my literary style._

I shrugged, then lifted a querulous eyebrow. "Literary style? You don't
mean you actually have one yourself!" There was enough disdain in my
voice to get a harsh clatter from the keys with a lot of meaningless
gibberish. I reached over and flicked it back into caps.

_YOU'RE SO STUPID I DON'T KNOW WHY I BOTHER WITH YOU! STYLE? I COULD
TELL YOU STORIES THAT WOULD CURL YOUR HAIR! THE LIBRARIES HERE ON RIGEL
IV MAKE YOUR POE AND SHAKESPEARE LOOK LIKE OLD MAIDS!_

I sat back in my chair and got a crafty feeling. Before I knew it I
said, "Prove it!"

There was silence for a moment. The keys just remained dead. I reached
forward and tapped the machine.

_STOP THAT! I'M THINKING.... VERY WELL, EARTHMAN, I WILL PROVE IT!_

And he did. I sat there for the next half hour, feeding paper into the
machine, and it kept me busy. That typewriter sounded like a burp gun
with hiccoughs.

Finally the typing ceased. The carriage clattered back and there was a
final spurt of words.

_WELL? WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? READ IT!_

I read it. It made my hair curl. A story of galactic war--invasion on
Rigel IV from a race a hundred light years in space. Havoc, suspense,
adventure, all so utterly fantastic it seemed real. I was spellbound to
the last line. I stared at the machine.

_WELL?_

"--You sure this isn't another mimic job from Earth--"

_ARE YOU CALLING ME A LIAR? YOU STUPID--_

"Ok, ok, I just wanted to make sure. It's pretty good--fantastic and
all that, and a far cry from our Poe or Shakespeare, but--"

_YOU ARE TRYING TO COMPARE YOUR PUNY WRITERS WITH OURS? THAT'S THE LAST
INSULT! I'M SORRY I DECIDED TO PSI IN ON YOUR PLANET FOR MY VACATION
GOODBY_--

"Wait!" I shouted the word.

_WHY?_

"I--I'm sorry, I apologize. It's just that you caught me unprepared.
Afterall, you must admit this is something of a shock--hearing from you
God knows how many light years away...."

_WELL, NOW. THAT'S BETTER. YOU RECOGNIZE YOUR SUPERIORS AFTERALL!_

This was no time for wounded pride. So I nodded. "You're right. We're
incredibly backward--but we don't have to remain that way forever. Take
your Rigel IV libraries, for example. I'll bet your stories could teach
us a lot."

_NATURALLY._

"And," I continued, gaining confidence now, "you said you were on
vacation, absorbing some of our literature--puny as it is.... Have you
had a taste of anything besides Poe and Shakespeare?"

_NO. SHOULD I?_

"Should you? Why you've barely scraped our culture! Tell you what!
Maybe we can make a deal--"

_DEAL? WHAT'S THAT?_

"I mean, a trade. While you're on vacation I'll swap writers with you.
I'll type a story, and you reciprocate with one from your library.
Fair enough?"

_WELL ... YOU'D BE GETTING THE BEST OF THE BARGAIN...._

I nodded humbly. "I realize that. But think of the good you'd be doing,
teaching us barbarians the glorious wonders of your civilization...."

That did it. The machine actually purred.

_I'LL DO IT. PURELY AS A LARK, OF COURSE...._

"Fine. We'll begin next week."

_NEXT WEEK? WHY THE DELAY?_

"I want to get in a good supply of stories," I said, and got up,
picking up the Rigel IV manuscript. The machine was silent so I made a
dash for the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

Several months have gone by since I sold that first story to a science
fiction magazine. At top rates, too. I've sold dozens of others since
then, and my pen-names are getting to be what the editors call "Top
Favorites".

I'm sitting in my room now--a penthouse apartment, thank
you--surrounded by a lavish library of classic Earth literature.
Reggie--that's what I call my collaborator on Rigel IV--is just
finishing a new science fiction epic. Then it will be my turn to
write--I think I'll give him some Dumas today.

How long can this last? Reggie is on vacation you know. And I've since
discovered that a Rigel IV vacation is equivalent to a hundred Earth
years. Which should keep me in champagne and caviar as long as the
earth classics hold out.

So what's all this got to do with you? A good question and one I don't
mind answering since you won't believe it anyway.

Where do you think all the stories in IMAGINATION--and other
magazines--have been coming from!

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PLAGIARIST FROM RIGEL IV ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
