The Project Gutenberg eBook of Beware the Star Gods, by S. J. Byrne

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Beware the Star Gods

Author: S. J. Byrne

Release Date: September 15, 2021 [eBook #66314]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEWARE THE STAR GODS ***





               Kuru stood his ground bravely as the ship
           flamed down from the sky. Truly this was a great
           and terrible moment. He must warn his people to--

                         Beware The Star Gods

                            By S. J. Byrne

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                               June 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Kuru paused, his stone knife poised above the half-skinned kill. He
listened, at the same time twitching his sensitive nostrils in an
effort to read the messages of the wind. But there was nothing in the
air for his nose to read. Rather, it was sound that gave him warning.

He stood up and looked through the trees at the small valley beyond the
ridge on which he stood. He could hear the raucous cry of birds and the
tree people.

Kuru wanted very much to run to his people, but if he should do so what
would he tell them? That he was running from that which he had not even
looked upon with his own eyes? That Kuru ran from the cry of birds and
tree people?

Now the tree people saw him and they paused in their flight,
concentrating their numbers in the trees over his head, looking down
at him and chattering and gesticulating with their busy little furry
arms. He was aware that they recognized him as a hunter and the enemy
of the murder-beast, and he was proud, knowing that they were appealing
to him now in the face of this new and greater enemy, whatever it was.
He could see that they were pointing at the sky.

The sky! Only the gods lived in the sky! He felt the hair along the
base of his neck stand out stiffly.

_Something great and terrible was coming out of the sky!_

       *       *       *       *       *

The thing was long and rounded and shone brightly like the stars. It
sparkled in the blue-white light of the triple suns like a love-stone
brought from the Faraway Caves beyond the Great River. And it was
floating down on pillars of fire toward the valley. It was becoming
bigger and bigger, as were Kuru's large, black eyes.

Fear began to give place to Kuru's wonder. How had such a thing ever
come to be? And what was it doing in the sky? What was it?

It was big, far bigger than Kuru could have imagined. When it came to
the ground it crushed and burned dozens of great trees. And there it
sat, motionlessly and without sound, as though a mountain had dropped
from the sky to stay there forever.

Suddenly, in the shining surface of the great sky-jewel a long, black
hole appeared, and even as he watched something glittering began to
emerge from it. At first it seemed that this was some sort of gigantic
cocoon, breaking open to release the wing of an unimaginable insect.
But in another moment he received the biggest surprise of all.

"Men!" he gasped. "What are men doing in that sky-jewel? They could not
have made it and come out of the sky--unless they are gods!"

The "man-gods" wore strange garments. They were amazingly frail and
beautiful looking people, like women in their fairness of skin and
their almost complete lack of hair on their bodies. Kuru felt that he
could have broken one of them with each hand. But what strange strength
of magic did they possess to make this shining cave that brought them
from the sky?

He heard a ferocious roar which emanated from the region of the
sky-cave. It was a murder-beast. He saw several of the "man-gods" run
to a gleaming sort of fence at the edge of the wing that had extended
itself out of the black hole. They were looking downward.

Now here was something Kuru could understand. In the face of the
terrifying murder-beast he would be able to tell whether or not these
people were weaklings. He saw one of them extract a small object from
his garments. When this small object was pointed downward in the
direction of the roaring murder-beast, a thin, bright line of light
appeared below it, and the murder-beast's roar was cut off.

Kuru's teeth chattered slightly. Undoubtedly, he was looking upon the
representatives of a race of gods. They could command the powers of
lightning.

Still, he could not run away even now, because only a female would
come screaming home to tell of what she had merely seen from afar. A
hunter like Kuru, who was already a respected member of the family
council, would investigate and have something more to tell other than
how frightened he was. On the contrary, he must show how brave he could
be. He must get closer to the sky-cave of the gods and watch them for a
while....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Infra-red picked it up. It's something pretty big, over in that tall
tree. Been there since before sundown."

"Hmmm.... Patience, cunning, warm-blooded, large size. Do you think--"

"Now don't let's get back on _that_ again!"

"But Henderson said he saw one with his binoculars, up on that ridge,
early this afternoon."

"Good God, Frank! Can't you realize you're being victimized by an
old complex? Why is it we _have_ to find human beings on other
worlds? We've been searching the stars unsuccessfully for more than a
millenium."

"This is our farthest reach out into the galaxy--"

"Yeah. By God, it's almost six hundred light years, twenty years by
chronology, and two for us even under trans-C time contraction. _That_,
my friend, is some traveling!"

"It's a beautiful planet--just like Earth was supposed to be once. You
know, sometimes I think civilization is a disease."

"That's a _great_ idea! So we're microbes infesting the universe!"

       *       *       *       *       *

That night Kuru returned to his family, which consisted of his father,
his mother, his father's three other wives, his two sisters, his five
younger brothers, half-sisters, half-brothers, and dozens of uncles and
aunts and scores of cousins numbering one hundred and twenty-two males
and females. Council members from three neighboring "families" had
already gathered on Council Rock, because some had seen the shining
thing descend out of the sky. But only Kuru could tell them facts about
it, which added tremendously to his prestige.

"It is a flying cave they have built," he concluded. "They are gods
from the country of the sky."

"This must be true," said Bortu, his father. "You say they killed a
murder-beast with lightning?"

"As though it were a crawly-bug under their feet."

The elder members of the council and the younger hunters all looked
at Kuru in silent admiration. But admiration was mixed with fear. The
stars above them were big with mystery and wonder. Why had the gods
come down to visit their world?

"What do they want?" asked Gurgo, the father-chief of the Snake Lake
family.

"I do not know. I heard them talking among each other, but it is some
strange twist of tongue that makes no meaning."

Now Fulkudu, father-chief of the Cloud Valley family, rose to speak.
He had thrown the sacred white fur of the river-cat over his shoulder,
which meant that his was an official decision.

"We must appease these gods," he announced. "We must show them at
once that we are friendly to them. A sacrifice must be presented."
Whereupon, he sat down again and was silent.

The rest of them remained silent, too, because this recommendation
gave rise to a much more important question. If the other father-chiefs
agreed with Fulkudu, then someone would have to go to those powerful
gods and present the sacrifice. No one wished to be embarrassed by
having to confess his fear. Who would be brave enough to take the
sacrifice to them?

As though by common accord, all council members slowly concentrated
their attention upon Kuru. Words were unnecessary to express the
general idea. Kuru was a very brave hunter. He alone knew more about
the gods who had come from the sky than any other among them.

Kuru looked into the eyes of his father and saw the message written
there. He had made his father proud. To back out now was to lose all
the prestige so far gained. Kuru thought of the thin bolt of lightning
that had killed the murder-beast, and he fought to keep his teeth from
chattering.

Slowly, he stood up, throwing his own white fur over his brawny
shoulder. "I will present the sacrifice," he said. And his own voice
sounded strange to him. It was hard to believe he had said such a brave
thing as this.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Derla!" Kuru exclaimed. "What are you doing here?" He lowered the
heavy horny-head beast to the ground and looked at his sister in
amazement.

She was almost his own age, and the prettiest female in the family,
with her long black hair and her large black eyes and firm young
breasts. He, himself, had killed the murder-beast whose fur encircled
her shapely hips.

"I would be with you in this danger," she answered, pleadingly. "None
of the other males dared to go with you. Our father's pride would be
complete if a female of the Great Cliffs were as brave as Kuru."

"But you must go back. I do not know what these gods will do. They may
kill me."

Derla ran forward to her brother's side, placing her hands on one
of his hairy arms. "Then this is a greater reason for me to be with
you, brother!--so that your spirit will not travel alone into the sky
country."

Kuru looked down into his sister's eyes and grinned. "You are my
favorite sister," he said. "Come! Perhaps when they see you they will
not think of killing!" He shouldered the horny-head beast again, and
the two of them continued across the floor of the valley toward the
shining sky-cave of the gods....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Mother of God! Frank!"

"What is it?"

"Seeing is believing. Look down there in that small clearing...."

"Oh no. It can't be!"

"Well, you were the guy that was saying they might be here!"

"What I need is witnesses then. I'll signal general call. You get
cameras and the recorders out!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"By God, it's incredible--yet it's true! The first extra-terrestrial
humans ever discovered, in over a thousand years of space exploration!"

"This will be something to stir up their blood back home. People were
beginning to lose interest even in galactic exploration. This is it,
boys! We've finally discovered our own kind!"

"I wouldn't go so far as to say that. Those are obviously primordials.
That male is half hair."

"And the other half is all brawn. The female is surprisingly
clear-skinned. For a primordial gal she isn't bad!"

"What are they doing down there? Looks like they're waiting for us to
do something."

"Don't you get it? We're from the stars. Therefore we're gods. That
quadruple-horned goat-like animal at their feet is a sacrifice. We're
supposed to accept it."

"Hell, we'll accept them all! Let's get 'em on board!"

"Hold it a minute, men. Keep your voices down. You're gods now, not
monkeys. Take it easy. Can't you see how the female cringes behind the
male? Both of them are half scared out of their wits. By their own
evaluation, they are braving death to do us honor. We have to gain
their confidence."

"Well, if they're defying death, itself, maybe they'd come on board if
we lowered the ladder to them."

"We can try it, but let it down slowly--and smile! Remember, you are
benevolent gods...."

       *       *       *       *       *

"If they intended to kill us, Derla, they would have done so by now.
See? They smile at us!"

"Look! Something is coming down!"

"It is a shiny-fence."

"It is like the vine-steps for climbing cliffs."

"That's it, Derla! Either they are coming down, or--or--"

"Kuru! They want us to come up!"

The two of them stood there in the small clearing, looking at the
vertical shiny-fence that had come down to them from the great ledge
where the man-gods stood, up at the top of their sky-cave. Again,
Kuru's great muscles twitched with the instinct to run. Had he been
alone, he might have done so. But in the eyes of his brave sister he
could not do this, even though it might cost him his life. Still, the
god-men looked very friendly. They were beckoning to him to come up.

Gritting his teeth and emitting a low growl to give himself courage,
Kuru threw the horny-head beast across his shoulder and approached the
shiny-fence. "You stay here," he told his sister.

"No, Kuru! I will come behind you, no matter what happens!"

He shrugged, ashamed of his own fear in the presence of her surprising
courage. He grabbed cross-pieces of the shiny-fence and began to climb,
knowing that Derla was close at his heels.

The great, smooth ledge with the shiny-fence around it was larger than
he had expected. A group of twelve man-gods stood there, waiting for
him. None of them, he noticed carefully, had a lightning stick in his
hand, although at least five of them carried the terrible weapons at
their sides. After pausing once to make sure that he was not to be
attacked, Kuru climbed up onto the ledge and threw his sacrifice down.
Then he turned to help Derla up. The two of them stood facing the
people from the sky.

Finally, Kuru said to them, "We bring you sacrifice and make peace. The
gods are welcome to this land."

Derla tugged at his arm. "We should bow down," she advised.

Brother and sister fell to their knees, with bowed heads.

       *       *       *       *       *

"That ought to make a good picture for you, Henderson. They're eating
out of our hand already!"

"Here, fellow, get to your feet. You too, black eyes!"

"Don't forget the sacrifice. Better accept it so's they won't be
offended. Besides, maybe it's edible. We could do with some fresh
meat--maybe."

"Maybe is right. I don't think my system could get used to real steaks
again. That looks like some sort of goat. May be just like mutton."

"Hey Frank! That cave girl sure goes for you! Look at her take you in
with those big eyes!"

"Guess that's because Frank's more their size. Open your shirt a little
more, Frankie old boy. Show 'em the hair on your chest!"

"Shut up, you guys. Do you realize what this means?"

"Yeah. Love at first sight!"

"Men! Pipe down. Whether you like it or not, this is quite a historical
moment. Now the first problem is one of communication and contact with
the rest of their people."

"We could get out the flier and take them home."

"That's right. We'll do that when we've tried talking to them and taken
some more pictures and recordings. What do you make of that fellow's
language, Ken?"

"Primitive, but with a pretty good smattering of syntax. There were
some definite inflexions. I'd say they were about ready for writing."

"By God, that guy must have the strength of a gorilla. This sacrifice
animal weighs a ton. Give me a hand, Mike."

"Where I come from, that expression he's wearing is a snarl. But I
guess he is trying to smile. Well? Who's going to shake hands? Okay,
Frank. You be the hero."

"You'd think he'd never seen a hand before. He's afraid to touch you.
No, he's going to--"

"Ouch!"

"Yipes! If he can hurt Frank then I'm not shaking hands with him! I'll
shake hers, though. They say women used to go around like _that_ in
Bali."

"Now just take it easy, men. I think that hairy fellow is doing a
splendid job as it is. Can't you see how nervous he is? He's broken
out into a sweat. He's watching us like a wild animal. Instinct is
struggling with intelligence. Don't make any quick moves. You'll notice
he keeps watching our guns as though he knew what they were for. That's
pretty good observation. He'll probably jump the first one who draws,
so just remember that...."

"They're getting in because they saw you two get in, but they may not
know it's a flier. The minute you take to the air they may get panicky.
So watch yourselves! We'll follow in the other two rigs. Take it slow,
because we want to catch some aerial fotos of the terrain...."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Say listen, Frank. These people have been entertaining us all for a
week. We've found a perfect, utterly peaceful world that has never
known war or privation. It's the biggest find in history, and here you
sit moping. I haven't seen you smile once since we got here. What's
eating you?"

"I think you just hit the nail on the head."

"What do you mean?"

"We have found a perfect, utterly peaceful world that has never known
privation."

"So?"

"Remember what I said about civilization being a disease?"

"Oh, so that's it! Well, they don't seem to object to the
contamination."

"How could they? We're wonder gods, and our gadgets are magic toys.
What do they know about the rest of it? In forty or fifty years the
colony ships will arrive here and set up shop. There'll be scientific
development, mass production, regimentation. Just consider the
implications of bringing an alarm clock to this world!"

"That's pretty good "squeezing" they make out of those roots, but don't
let it make you morbid, old boy!"

"Within two generations those rugged brutes will be helping us build
factories here. They'll be wearing work clothes and numbers. Our
society is necessarily collective because of past history and possible
future dangers of aggression among ourselves. What do these people
need collective security for?--and mass production--only to feed us as
we come in among them and spawn more millions who will soon make it
necessary to expand again and find another world like this to spoil!"

"Frank, you're going off your rockers. Oh! Oh! Here's something to take
your mind off of social philosophy. Look at this!"

"What cooks? Looks like a delegation of all the best looking women in
the tribe. Guess they're going to dance for us or something."

"There's Dark Eyes again. She's got you picked out already."

"Picked _out_?"

"Sure! Ken said he thought this would happen. They've made several
overtures before."

"What are you talking about?"

"Children of Paradise, pal! They think this is the truest form of
hospitality, and in a way--"

"You mean--!"

"Yeah. That's what I mean. And Dearborn says we shouldn't offend them.
So what am I going to do?"

"But--!"

"Don't keep Dark Eyes waiting, pal!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"You were only supposed to please the gods, not fall in love with them,
Derla."

"I love only one."

"I know. It is the big one who never smiles except when he looks at you
and me. Then he smiles with sadness. But he is not liked by the other
gods. I have seen him argue with the others and shout at them and wave
his arms about--and they have stopped smiling at him. If he is in
disfavor, it is dangerous to have anything to do with him. He carries
his lightning stick at all times, and I know it is because he fears
attack from his own kind, not from us. You must stay away from him."

"He does not seek me. I fail to please him."

"He is a god and you are woman."

"But Sigala, and Bulbini--"

"I know. Some of the gods have been lonelier than the others. That is
the only reason."

"The big one who is called Fronk--has not yet--"

"It is just as well."

"Not even that night when we first--"

"Derla, you will have to forget about him and stay away from him."

"But he was kind...."

"And he is not liked by the other gods. Your father forbids it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Frank, this obsession of yours is getting serious. The men have asked
me to have a talk with you. If you don't get hold of yourself it might
even mean the brig, man. Now I want you to tell me just what's behind
all this."

"Well, sir, it's just that I think we're dead wrong in coming here at
all. What we ought to do is _protect_ these people from civilzation.
We discovered them. When we go back and report it, they will be the
property of modern materialism. Our supposed gifts to them will be
nothing short of exploitation. I say we erase our discovery from the
records."

"What?--I can see now why a couple of the boys had a fight with you.
It's insane! For over ten centuries we have looked for other humans--"

"And now that we've found them, we plan to force them into our own way
of life, as though _we_ had found the only answer!"

"Frank, I'm sorry to put it this way, but this is an order. Keep your
personal opinions to yourself. You're on probation and you're going to
be watched. Dismissed!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"The big one has stones in his head, Derla. Look at him up there on the
clifftop. He has grown a beard. Each day he looks less a god and more a
man. But he drinks _qaral_-juice too much. He stays away from us and he
stays away from the other gods. What is the matter with him?"

"I do not know, Kuru. He is very strange. Beautiful things make him
sad. I know when he is sad, because then he really drinks and goes away
to sleep it off somewhere."

"What do you mean--beautiful things?"

"Well, it is when we are happiest in the mornings when the suns are
still too low in the sky to drink the dew from the leaves and grasses,
when we bathe in the river and laugh and play. Or when many of us sit
around the great fires at night and listen to the old ones' stories. He
watches us then, and he drinks, and after a while he goes away. He is
very sad."

"Soon they will all be gone. I saw them bringing many things to the sky
cave...."

"I will be sad to see them go."

"You will be sad to see the crazy big one go."

"Yes. There is something in his eyes--a kindness that is for all of
us--and there is even something in his eyes for me."

"You believe in the things you wish for. But that does not make them
true."

"Kuru. Where do you think they go?"

"Now _that_ is a question for a woman to ask! Is it not obvious? They
go into the sky, whence they came...."

       *       *       *       *       *

One morning the large families of the Great Cliffs, Snake Lake and
Cloud Valley were startled out of their sleep by a shaking of the
ground and a blinding light in the sky. Before they could rub the sleep
out of their eyes, a giant, invisible hand swept over the country,
bending trees almost to the ground. And then a terrible roar smote
their ears. They did not know if the gods of the mountains had spoken
or if this were some new manifestation of powers on the part of the
sky gods who were soon to depart. When they saw the angry cloud and
the fire in the sky they fell to the ground, trembling with fear, and
praying. They did not know how they had angered these strange new gods,
but there could be no doubt that they were angered.

Hours later, when the angry cloud began to fade away in the sky above
that valley where the sky-cave was located, the father-chiefs and
hunters gathered at Council Rock.

"Our bravest hunters must go to appease them with great sacrifices,"
announced Bortu. "They must go at once. And my son, Kuru, will lead
them."

So it was decided. The fattest horny-head beasts were killed and
skinned. Kuru and nine other hunters shouldered their sacrifices and
started toward the Valley of the Gods, as it was now called. Over three
hundred members of the three great families stood on the Great Cliffs
and watched them go, hoping that the gods would not destroy them in
their mysterious wrath.

Suddenly a great cry of alarm arose from the watchers. The hunters
paused on the edge of the forest. Before them stood the sky god, the
big crazy one with the beard. The one called _Fronk_. In his hand was
a lightning stick, and he pointed it at the hunters. He made signs to
them which were unmistakable. They were not to approach the Valley of
the Gods.

Derla could not help it. She ran across the intervening space and stood
beside her brother, Kuru, staring at the god she loved, in desperation
and amazement.

He was crying. His face and his beard were streaked with tears. He was
crying, almost screaming at them--but he would not let them pass....

       *       *       *       *       *

"I didn't mean to kill them! Mother of God, why didn't you take me
instead! Only wanted to cripple the power so they'd be stranded.... All
right! Keep back! You, too, Dark Eyes! Those sacrifices mean nothing
now, boys.... Just a smoking pit back there filled with radiation. But
what would you know about that? Thank God now you'll _never_ know!
That's the first and the last mushroom cloud you'll ever see. Go on
back to your Paradise. Maybe you'll never know I saved it for you....
Go on! Beat it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"He killed all the other gods, Derla. In his madness he destroyed the
great sky-cave, and now not even he can return to the country of the
sky."

"I don't think he meant to kill the others. He cried for days about it."

"And got terribly drunk! We had to stop giving him _qaral_-juice. It
was making him sick so that he could not eat, and he grew thin."

"But he has been gone for many, many suns. Do you think he is dead?"

"He is a god. Perhaps he will never die. He went away because he
knew we were afraid of him. In fact, he is not welcome in any of the
families."

"He is a lonely God. I have made up my mind, my brother. I am sad
because he is sad. If our people will not comfort him then I must. I am
going to him. I will try and make him a happy God once more."

Derla turned away from Kuru then and walked into the dark forest. Kuru
watched her go and then shook his head. "You are a strange one, my
sister. But go to your God. You will never be happy unless you do." He
shrugged then and turned his thoughts to other more important matters.

And Derla went to find her God. She was eager, and happy....

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BEWARE THE STAR GODS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
