The Project Gutenberg eBook of Danger in the Void, by Charles E. Fritch

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Danger in the Void

Author: Charles E. Fritch

Release Date: September 27, 2021 [eBook #66396]

Language: English


Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DANGER IN THE VOID ***




                          DANGER IN THE VOID

                         By Charles E. Fritch

               Silvia secretly planned to divorce George
            when they reached Arcturus. But a space journey
            can alter a careful plan--or hatch a worse one!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                              August 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The trouble started when the _Arcturus Queen_ was four billion miles
out of Earth, heading for the star after which it was named. It pulled
clear of the solar system using conventional drive, then switched into
subspace. A few minutes later the ship shuddered perceptibly, and an
authoritative voice came reassuringly from the public address system.

"Passengers will please remain in their seats. We are temporarily
cutting the subspace drive due to mechanical difficulties which have
developed. There is no cause for alarm."

The message was repeated and George said, "What do you suppose is the
matter?"

"How should I know," Silvia snapped. "I'm not a space mechanic. Why
don't you find out if you're so interested."

He glared at her. "I was just wondering. You don't have to get so
disagreeable. But then, why should now be any different?"

She smiled at that, though her blood raced and her fingers itched
to make red ribbons of his face. "I've got plenty of reason to be
disagreeable--"

"Okay, okay," he said; "let's not go through that again." He got up.
"I'm going up to the observation platform." And he went down the
aisle between the rows of seats and disappeared through a door at the
farthest end.

She glared after him. That was always his way, running out on an
argument. Well, when this trip was over, there would be no more running
away.

A man dropped into the seat beside her.

"This seat's taken," she said automatically, and then realized the
man must have known, since all seats were reserved.

"I know," the man said. "I'd like to talk to you."

She studied him for a moment. He had a rather common face, one with
no particularly outstanding features, a face that would be difficult
to remember, she thought. He wore a plain business suit, with a
conventional white shirt and an unobtrusive tie. He did not appear the
wolfish type to her, but rather the ordinary businessman you might see
hanging onto helibus straps anyplace on Earth.

"You want to talk to me?" she said carefully. "About what?"

"Your divorce," the man said simply.

"My divorce? But--" She stopped. She was about to say, "But how did you
know?" when it suddenly occurred to her that George might have hired
this man to find out if she were planning one of those rapid Arcturan
separations. She hadn't thought to wonder if he suspected she was
planning one. If he knew about her divorce plans, he might take counter
measures just for spite; with Arcturan divorce regulations as they
were, that would be bad.

She said, "I'm not divorced, Mr...."

"Jones," the man supplied, smiling. "I know that, Mrs. Bennet, but I
also know that you're going to Arcturus to obtain one. I'd like to talk
to you about that, confidentially of course."

       *       *       *       *       *

She was certain of it now. He knew her name and spoke about a divorce
no one but she knew of. "I'm sorry," she said coldly, turning her head
away to indicate that as far as she was concerned the interview was at
an end, "I gave no one to understand that. I'm accompanying my husband
on a business trip. Now, if you'll please--"

"Nevertheless," the man insisted, "your intentions are plain, perhaps
not to others or even your husband--but to us, very clear. Let me be
frank, Mrs. Bennet. I represent an organization which can be of great
benefit to you, providing you help us by accepting our standard plan."

"Your organization?" she questioned.

The man waved a vague hand. "The organization is of necessity nameless.
However, it is quite effective. In fact, the only way you've heard of
us, without realizing it, is through the effects we produce for our
clients."

"What sort of--effects?"

"I promised to be frank, Mrs. Bennet. I shall. Your husband is an
android, and you hate him for that reason and for others."

Silvia gasped. "How did you know? That he's an android, I mean?"

The man smiled. "Our organization has access to a great deal of
information; it's an integral part of our business, this information,
serving as a springboard for contacting prospective clients like you."

"You mean," she said testily, "you'd like to help me get a divorce?"
She smiled, adding, "For a fee, naturally."

The man shook his head no. "Something more permanent. We'd like to make
a widow of you."

For a moment Silvia sat paralyzed, thinking she had not heard right.
After awhile, she said, "You'd like to what?"

"You were carefully studied," the man went on, "and we know the idea of
your husband's death is not repugnant to you; that's why I'm suggesting
the idea simply, without any cat-and-mouse tactics. Your husband has
insurance amounting to slightly less than one hundred thousand credits;
our fee will be one-tenth of that plus one-tenth of any other monies
which may accrue as a result of his death."

Silvia sat in shocked silence, not knowing what to say. "You're crazy,"
she managed finally. "I'll call the officers--"

"Who wouldn't believe you because the story is fantastic," the man
pointed out, certain of himself. "Only our clients and potential
clients know we are in existence, for not one of our--er--operations
has been discovered. Think it over, Mrs. Bennet. Even though Arcturan
divorces can be quick, they aren't always painless. It's like war with
them, just as everything is, and wars can be lost. Our way is more
certain; you're assured of your husband's estate and nine-tenths of all
insurance money. I'll be around when you change your mind."

He got up and walked down the aisle in back of her. Silvia didn't look
to follow him. She was thinking, _when_ I change my mind; the man was
that sure of it, was he? Or was that just to put her in a positive
frame of mind, making her think it was not a question of yes or no,
but when. She had quarrels with George, sure, and sometimes she even
felt she hated him--but the idea of murder had not entered her mind.
Mentally she added, _at least until now!_ She shook her head--no, it
was out of the question.

       *       *       *       *       *

She had to admit to herself, though, now that she _was_ thinking
of it, that she would miss the easy living being married to George
entailed, even with any alimony she might receive. He was the android
version of the old Horatio Alger story, though very few persons knew
or even suspected George was not human. The World Congress had passed
equalizing laws for androids just as they had for the various races,
with the difference that it worked for androids since they had no
outward mark of being different from the select group.

While not wealthy, they had lived well, with George trying in his
simple fashion to please her. She thought once she had loved him, for
after all he was a rather likable person. He had told her of his being
a non-human and had proposed in almost the same breath, and it had
shocked her at first the way any normal woman would be shocked at being
told such a thing. But George was on his way to becoming somebody in
the business world, and after going mentally over the pros and cons of
the thing she had decided she could do much worse. There were times
during the two years of marriage, however, when she wasn't even certain
of that.

She had considered the possibility of forcing him after the divorce
to give her some of his real estate or investments in return for not
disclosing his secret; for while technically there was supposed to
be no ill will toward androids there was an instinctive repulsion on
the part of many humans for someone who was not of their kind, and
George's business contacts would inevitably suffer if the knowledge got
out. It was not blackmail, she rationalized--she disliked the unlawful
sound of the word--but a business deal in which she supplied silence in
return for his money. It was the least he could do, she thought, after
taking up two years of her life.

But murder was another thing, a totally different thing that had
entered her mind only briefly during arguments and then not seriously.
Even blackmail would be lily-white compared to it. She had never
actually entertained the idea for any length of time, but now she
considered it--not seriously even now, she told herself hastily, but
merely as an intellectual diversion.

Android or not, as far as the courts were concerned, it was murder just
as though the victim were a human. But the case might never reach the
courts, for the "organization" would handle all homicidal details, she
remembered, and they were probably professionals in the art. Strange,
no one had discovered the organization, but that probably testified to
its ability. They could probably kill someone, even George, and no one
would ever know....

She shook her head in mild disdain, wondering at the sudden flood of
criminal thoughts started by the stranger. She reminded herself that
she was going to Arcturus to divorce her husband, not to kill him. She
wondered disinterestedly if he were sulking up there on the observation
platform.

The loudspeaker crackled and a feminine voice said, "The mechanical
difficulties have been located and are being repaired. It will be
approximately thirty minutes, Earth rating, before we enter subspace
again. Meanwhile, the lounge is open for those wishing to patronize it.
May we suggest a cocktail, followed by a dinner from any of the planets
of any system. The view from the observation platform--"

The voice droned on, telling of the swimming pool, the
three-dimensional (off-gravity) tennis rooms, and other diversions
designed to get passengers' minds off the fact that they were
temporarily stalled in open space.

       *       *       *       *       *

George appeared in the doorway at one end of the aisle and walked
toward her. She gave a small gasp as she saw the stranger come through
the doorway behind him. They came down the aisle, and George dropped
into his seat. The stranger looked questioningly at her before he
passed. She shook her head no.

"There's a good view from the observation platform," George said, as
though making an effort to be conversational. "Now's the time to see
it, when the ship's in normal space. They've got a large transparent
dome, like half a bubble, and when you look up it seems as though
you're out there in space, floating."

"Really?" she said drily. "I'm not exactly a tourist, you know. I
_have_ been on observation platforms before."

For a moment he looked at her as though wondering if there were
anything he could say that wouldn't bring out a disagreeable word.
"Silvia, I wish--" he began.

"All right, all right," she interrupted wearily. "If there's anything
I've said to injure your poor sensitive feelings, I apologize. But
please don't give me that lost sheep-dog look; I can't stand it."

He started to say something, then changed his mind at the futility of
it and fell silent. She regarded him from the corner of her vision for
a moment, feeling strangely sympathetic toward him. It made her feel
something of a heel when he fell silently accusing like that, and she
didn't like the feeling. If only he'd rant and rave at her, stand on
his own two feet and maybe even beat her once in a while. She wouldn't
like that, but at least it would be better than this outwardly placid
pacificism. She suspected his attitude stemmed from an inferior
complex due to his being android; he could spin the world on its tail,
corner all the credits in the solar system, but still he could not
escape the fact of his artificial birth. That fact was her weapon, and
he knew it and was afraid of it.

After awhile, he said slowly, "I'm going to get a divorce, Silvia."

She looked at him swiftly, her eyes taking in each facet of his
features to see if he were jesting. She even wondered for a moment if
she had heard correctly.

"I'm going to get a divorce on Arcturus," he repeated, not looking at
her. "I've been thinking it over for the past several months. Finally,
I decided it would be the best thing for both of us. I hope you won't
contest it; I don't think I'd like one of those running battles."

Silvia sat stunned by the revelation. This was to have been her
surprise party, not his, for under Arcturan divorce regulations the
member initiating the action had the distinct advantage, especially
when the other was unprepared; the war-conditioned star-system had
developed this marital blitzkrieg to satisfy the sporting instincts
of its people and to attract the curiosity-seeking Earth trade. She
had figured it as a surprise to him, knowing he would be shocked by
its suddenness and take no action against her demands for what would
normally constitute an excessive amount of alimony.

"I thought I'd better tell you," he said, almost apologetically, "even
if it does work to my disadvantage." He got up. "If you'd care to
discuss it further, I'll be in the bar."

In shocked silence, Silvia watched her husband retreat down the aisle.
It was so typical of him to tell her, but the thought of him doing
something like this at all was incredible. More than that, it was
unbearable. She felt anger surge within her to realize that she'd
been beaten to the punch, even if the romantic fool had confessed
his intentions. Slowly, she could sense her plans wavering, becoming
insecure, and panic gripped her. She'd had it all planned, all of it,
working out the details with secret enthusiasm, never suspecting George
was discontented enough to take action himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

She still had a good chance, of course, but not nearly as good a one as
before. The two years she had been married to him would be an eternity
compared to what compensation she might receive now, if she received
anything at all. Perhaps she could make up to him before they got to
Arcturus, convince him she was repentant, that she wanted him to remain
with her. The thought of kowtowing before him, putting her pride on
the auction block, sickened her, though. Besides, he would easily see
through the subterfuge; though weak, he was not a fool. Inwardly, she
cursed, her mind a frantic jumble of thoughts. There was nothing she
could do, nothing except hope for the best. Unless--

The stranger appeared with the thought concerning him. He dropped into
the seat beside her.

"Have you reconsidered?" he asked her quietly.

It was murder, she knew, and yet George was only an android,
something that was manufactured artificially in a laboratory in great
liquid-filled tanks; that somehow made it different, made it something
like putting a machine out of commission rather than destroying a life.

She wet her lips. "In the eyes of the law," she said, "it's murder, you
know."

"All the laws in the universe," the man returned gravely, "will not
make an android human, Mrs. Bennet. There is a faction which gives our
organization a bonus each time an android is destroyed, so you can see
you're not alone in this."

She didn't look at him. "How would you do it?"

"Efficiently," he replied vaguely, "in a way I cannot yet disclose.
Satisfaction, however, is guaranteed."

"Ten percent of the insurance money is the total fee?"

"Ten percent of _all_ insurance monies," he corrected, "which is not
necessarily the same thing." He drew a paper from his coat, opened it
and handed her a pen.

"I have to sign something?" she asked. "But won't that incriminate me?"

"You promise to pay the ten percent _in consideration of services
rendered_," the man explained. "The services are, of course, not
stated."

She took the pen and signed before she could talk herself out of it.

"When will it be?"

Carefully, he folded the document and returned it to his coat. "Before
we reach Arcturus," the man said, getting up. "Thank you very much,
Mrs. Bennet. Glad to be of service to you." And he walked away.

       *       *       *       *       *

She nodded vaguely and then began considering what she had done. George
was an android, she told herself again, only an android. But how could
you tell an android from a human? Certainly not outwardly. Blood
chemistry was different, but the blood was red just the same. The skin
was a different composition, yet it felt and looked like human skin.
The personality and the character had human flaws in them. What, then,
was the difference? The answer came: an android was not human because
he was an android, which by definition was not human.

This reasoning tended to confuse her, and she tried to push the
thoughts from her mind. It was done, and that was all that mattered,
she told herself. Pangs of conscience might plague her now, but
afterward the soothing balm of money would ease the pain. They'd never
gotten along, so what difference did it make.

She forced her thoughts away from that and wondered how they'd do it.
She hoped suddenly that it wouldn't be violent, and then she recalled
that a double indemnity clause would give her twice the hundred
thousand--less the ten percent, of course, for services rendered. At
least, she hoped he wouldn't suffer. He'd suffered enough during his
lifetime, just for being an android.

It must have been horrible, she thought, having to go through life
knowing you're less than human, or at least in having people think
that. Even if humans accepted you as an equal (which they didn't,
despite any laws), you'd have to live with the knowledge that you
evolved from an artificially produced embryo under conditions
simulating normal birth. Artificial growth, she thought disgustedly,
like the hydroponic production of vegetables. She felt a sudden sorrow
for him, a sympathy that was as far from pity as it had ever been.
Perhaps it was even for his own good, she tried to rationalize, to do
this. And yet she was still not certain.

George came down the aisle toward her, and she looked away hastily. She
felt the seat depress beside her.

"The subspace drive will be ready in a few minutes more," he said.
"Then we'll really be on our way to Arcturus."

"Yes," she said quietly, not looking at him. She wanted to say
something sarcastic, something to make him squirm, something that would
give an aura of normality to her actions. Yet the words stuck in her
throat, refusing to come. He has only a few moments, she told herself,
let them be pleasant.

She was surprised that the thought put her in a bad light, almost
admitting that it was her fault that they didn't get along; yet it was
difficult to be patient with someone who always seemed to be thinking
grave thoughts, as though constantly reminding himself he was an
inferior.

But there was a time, she remembered, when he had not been grave. When
they had first met, for example, and during the courtship that had
followed. A smile touched her lips as she thought about the little
things, the picnics and the sudden drenching rainstorms that inevitably
came after the ants were finished with their food, the 'copter trips
over the scenic wonderlands of Earth, the first accidental brushings of
their hands that had led to a kiss and then to another. But that was
before she had known he was an android.

She felt suddenly ashamed that the word "android" could mean so much.

"George?" She reached out and touched his hand. It felt warm and human.

He turned, bewilderment in those android human-looking eyes. He smiled
at her, rather nervously, she thought. "Yes?"

"Nothing," she said, "nothing at all." She drew her hand away and
stared straight ahead.

It was wrong, she thought suddenly, it was the wrongest thing she had
ever done in her life. She knew that with sudden clarity. All the money
in the universe would not be worth the life of this--this _human_
beside her. Yes, that was it, android or not, he was as human as anyone
she had ever known.

       *       *       *       *       *

The loudspeaker hummed briefly and a voice said, "In thirty seconds
we will enter subspace. All passengers will remain seated until the
changeover is complete."

The voice repeated the message, and Silvia thought frantically, _we'll
be on our way to Arcturus and somewhere along the line the stranger
will kill George!_

She leaped up.

"Sit down," George cried, pushing at her. "We're going into subspace."

"I've got to see somebody," she said, struggling.

"It can wait," George insisted.

She went limp, as she heard the whine of the motors deep down within
the spaceship. "Yes," she said, "yes, I suppose it will." But not too
long. She didn't know when, or even how, but each moment might be
George's last.

She braced herself involuntarily, as the whine rose to the threshold
of inaudibility. A sudden rumbling came. The spaceship shook, the
walls twisting as though grasped by a giant's hand. The room tilted
precariously. A woman screamed.

"Something's gone wrong," George shouted. He grabbed Silvia's hand.

"Attention all passengers," a frantic voice came from the loudspeaker,
"prepare to abandon ship. Put on emergency spacesuits and go to
lifecraft assigned you. There is no immediate cause for alarm. There is
time enough for all to reach safety, if instructions are obeyed. Above
all, remain calm. Calls for help are going out--"

Silvia was dimly aware that George had pulled her spacesuit from the
overhead locker and was trying to stuff her into it. Thank goodness,
she thought, it was like a miracle this happening. Now, neither of them
would go to Arcturus and the stranger's plans would be delayed until
she had time to cancel them.

"I'm okay," she insisted, fumbling with the rest of her suit. "Put
yours on."

"We're going to be killed!" a man shouted near them. He scrambled down
the aisle toward the exit. George hit him, and the man staggered,
looking like a small boy punished for breaking a window. Then he began
sobbing and someone led him away.

The ship shuddered again, and the walls protested with the grating of
metal. Silvia staggered, but her husband's arm shot out to steady her.

A voice from the loudspeaker said, "Attention, all passengers. Prepare
to abandon ship. The following persons will proceed to emergency exit
one. Please be orderly. There is enough time and enough room." He read
off a list of six names.

"I hope we're together," George said. "I--I've changed my mind about
something."

Silvia felt a surge of pleasure. He wasn't going to get the divorce
after all. She didn't stop to analyze her feeling, but she hoped it
wasn't selfish.

"The following passengers," the loudspeaker announced "will go to
emergency exit two."

George listened carefully and at their names said, "That's us." He took
her by the arm. "Better put your helmet in place. There might be a
leak."

She nodded, flipping it over her head the way he did, placing the
faceplate open so she could talk without using the radio. The way he
seemed concerned over her made her feel ashamed she had plotted his
death, and yet at the same time it made her feel glad that they had
come to some silent understanding in time.

       *       *       *       *       *

He led the way down the aisle and into the corridor that led to exit
two. They passed into the lifecraft, a miniature spaceship, and sat
down to wait. There were four others, three men and one woman. The
pilot came in last, helmet off, and sat at the controls.

"We're leaving the ship now," he warned, and pressed several studs.

Silvia stared at the pilot. "George," she said, gripping her husband's
arm. The pilot was the stranger who was going to kill George!

"We'll be all right," George assured her.

The small lifecraft trembled as its rockets blasted them with sudden
acceleration into space. In seconds they were many miles beyond the
_Arcturus Queen_.

The woman was pale and frightened. One of the men stared through a
porthole. "Look at it back there," he exclaimed. "It looks like it's
going to--"

"Attention all lifecraft pilots," a loudspeaker said. "Rendezvous at
a point within one thousand yards of lifecraft number one. Distress
signals have been sent to the outer planets of Sol and help will arrive
shortly. Follow this beam." The message was repeated and then replaced
by a humming sound.

The pilot switched off the sound.

George said, "Hadn't you--" and then he stopped.

The pilot got up from his seat. There was a gun in his hand. "The
signal won't be necessary," he said calmly. "None of you aboard this
ship will be rescued."

Silvia bit her lip, hesitating. Then she said, "I've changed my mind,
the deal's off."

The man smiled. "A contract is a contract, Mrs. Bennet," he said.
"Besides, we've gone too far now with plans to turn back."

George was staring at her in disbelief. "Silvia, you mean that you--"

"I'll explain later," she told him.

"The time for explanations," the man said, "is right now. There will be
no 'later' for any of you. What your wife means, Mr. Bennet, is just
what you suspect. And what your husband is trying to say, Mrs. Bennet,
is that _he_ arranged a similar contract with me as did these other
people."

Silvia felt a chill pass through her at the words. George, she thought,
George was planning to--

"I was desperate," George cried, beside her, his eyes pleading. "I
was afraid that once we got a divorce you'd tell them about me. But I
couldn't go through with it, Silvia: that's what I meant when I said
I'd changed my mind."

She listened numbly.

"An interesting situation," the man smiled, "but it's much too late
for anybody to change his mind. At your deaths, the organization will
collect ten percent of your insurance benefits, plus the insurance
covering passengers killed as a result of a spaceship explosion."

"Spaceship explosion," one of the male passengers said, coming out of
a lethargy, "but there's been no--"

"Look," another cried, pointing to a porthole.

They looked, and the _Arcturus Queen_ burst into flame, erupting with
a great soundless explosion that sent metal splinters flying in all
directions.

The man smiled again, a smile of satisfaction, of knowing his plans
were ripening. "The _Arcturus Queen_ was insured by the owner, who
needed money. We take ten percent from him, a nominal fee considering
the risk involved."

"And what of us?" one of the men passengers demanded.

The man shrugged. "Each of you is married to someone who prefers your
insurance money to your companionship. Not a very satisfying thought,
is it?"

The woman began to cry softly.

"You'll never get away with this," another of the men said, fists
clenching.

"Can you think of any reason why not?" the man said, fondling the
weapon in his hand.

I can, Silvia thought; George and I aren't getting caught in our own
traps if I can help it. If I can only tilt the ship, get him off
balance--

Slowly, she edged toward the control panel, signaling George with a
careful nod of her head. George caught the signal, and she could see
him tense.

"We're wasting time," the man said, a trifle impatiently. He readied
the gun. "If there are no last questions--"

Silvia made a sudden thrust for the control panel.

       *       *       *       *       *

The man whirled, cursing, and brought the gun to bear on her. But
George was on him, gripping the man by the throat. The gun went off,
and a searing blast of flame filled the lifecraft.

"The wall!" someone cried.

Silvia looked up. The wall of the lifecraft hung suspended for a moment
like some great jigsaw puzzle where the gun's blast had struck it. And
then it fell apart, blowing outward with the hurricane of the cabin's
air leaping into space.

Instinctively, Silvia slammed shut the glass on her faceplate and tried
to grab some solid support. But a giant hand lifted her from the floor
and whisked her out into the blackness of the void. Weightlessness came
with terrifying suddenness, and at first it was like falling through
black silent endless waters. She tried to scream, but the sound refused
to come out.

She called George's name several times and then remembered the radio
and turned the activating knob. "George," she said. "I'm outside the
lifecraft. Can you see me?"

No answer came. Space was a velvet black out here, the stars gleaming
points. She had no sensation of movement, but twisting her head in the
helmet, she could see the lifecraft becoming smaller. Her heart sank
with the knowledge that inertia was pulling her out, out farther and
farther into space.

_He's not coming after me_, she thought suddenly, and the thought
terrified her, made her throat suddenly tight. _Even if he hears, he
won't come._

Around her, space drifted--dark, silent, limitless. Ahead, a great
nebula glowed.

"I'm sorry," she said slowly to herself. "I suppose I deserve it."

"Probably," George's voice came in her helmet, "but I'm coming after
you anyway. Everybody's okay on this end, except our insurance man who
couldn't get his helmet on in time; it seems my hands were somehow in
the way."

Her heart leaped at his voice. "Do you still love me, George?" she
asked. Somehow, that mattered more than anything else.

"I don't know," he said wearily, "I don't really know."

"Can't we try again?" she pleaded.

"I'm sick of trying," George said.

Her heart sank. She drifted through space watching the lifecraft bear
down upon her. In a few seconds it would be close enough, so that the
braking rockets--

"George!" she cried. "You're coming too close. I'll be burned by the
braking rockets!"

"Accidents happen," George told her.

She screamed.

The lifecraft turned aside then, and long fingers of flame shot past
her from the forward tubes. The ship drifted alongside her then, and
all jets were cut.

She breathed sudden relief. "Thank goodness. For a few seconds
there...."

"It was a bad few seconds for both of us," George told her. "Don't
tempt me again, Silvia."

He appeared at the gaping hole in the lifecraft, a rope in his hands.

"I won't, George," she promised. "We'll try again; this time we'll
_really_ try."

He tossed her the rope. She grabbed it and began the descent to the
ship. When he pulled her inside it was like being born again.

And somehow, she knew this new life would be different.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DANGER IN THE VOID ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
