The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Vegans Were Curious, by Winston
Marks

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Vegans Were Curious

Author: Winston Marks

Release Date: October 2, 2021 [eBook #66448]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VEGANS WERE CURIOUS ***





               It was purely by accident that he passed
            Earth in his galactic travels. But it became a
            matter of design that he land there, because--

                        The Vegans Were Curious

                           By Winston Marks

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             December 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The little sun was almost a light-year out of his way, and he could
have made it on to Sirius without stopping. But the thirst within him
was strong. The delicious, yellow sun with its rich corona and tiny,
tantalizing streamers was too tempting to pass up. Even before its
gravitic currents were strong enough to be of utility, he was decided.
He would pause. He would gorge himself. He would drink until he was
blue-white.

The thought was the first pleasant, sensuous one he had allowed himself
on the long journey. In his haste to indulge, he ignored the nine
planets which normally would have attracted at least a curious glance
from him. Not until he veered physically to avoid the third planet from
the sun was he distracted from his goal.

A bevy of the clumsy little spaceships from distant Vega were swarming
just outside the planet's turgid atmosphere. As he approached, one of
the Vegans noted his presence and hailed him.

"Greetings, Sirian! Stop a bit and give us your worthy opinion."

Although the message took but half a micro-second, the Sirian was
almost past the planet's pale satellite before he could repolarize his
photons and reverse his direction. Being the haughty creatures they
were, the Vegan's invitation was both unusual and provocative.

The Sirian noted, as he returned, that the flight of one-man-disks
seemed gathered about a mushroom-shaped cloud of opaque, gaseous
matter, entirely cold except for a modest radio-activity.

When he shot out an open query, the Vegan answered, "_They_ did it!
Those incredible little organic creatures down on the surface."

"Creatures? You mean there is an intelligent _organic_ life-form on
this planet?" the Sirian asked somewhat incredulously. He had passed
this system a hundred times without suspecting such a thing.

"Well, not exactly intelligent in a galactic sense, but likely
you'll agree that the principles of fission and fusion are somewhat
remarkable to find mastered by a planet-bound life-form as primitive
as these entities. They are ordinary, liquid-and-solid, carbon-ring,
ferro-protein, bi-symmetrical bipeds--you know, the kind you find
scattered about on these oxygen-rich planets. But imagine! Nuclear
manipulation!"

The Sirian found the paradox both curious and amusing. Never, to his
knowledge, had solid-matter life-forms advanced beyond a rudimentary
use of chemical combustion reactions, and even those who did master
fire more often worshipped it than made a sensible use of it.

"Interesting! Interesting, indeed. I think I will have a look."

"We were hoping you would," the Vegan replied. "We've done all the
investigating we dare."

"How is that?"

"They've spotted us, we think. Every time we come close to the surface
they dispatch little gas-expulsion vessels to chase us."

"Why don't you simply land and establish communications?"

"With our limitations we're not that curious. They're a violent,
vicious, suspicious lot--some two or three billion of them. And they
have some nasty little weapons at their disposal. Their nature seems to
be to hate what they don't understand. Shoot first and question later."

"Thanks for the warning--"

"Not that you need it. With your metamorphic abilities you can easily--"

"Of course. Now, on what question did you seek my opinion?"

The Vegan was slow in answering, as if the question were still hazy
in his mind. Then he said, "Our observations seem to indicate that
these creatures are divided into two general categories, but the only
distinctions we can detect are so superficial as to be ridiculous. One
is in the manner of attiring themselves, and the other--" He paused as
if reluctant.

"Yes, yes?"

"Well, this may seem fatuous, but all reproduction appears to be
confined to _one of the types_."

"That would be unique," the Sirian granted.

"But if this is true, there must be more important differences between
the two types," the Vegan went on. "Basic differences, one would
expect."

"Then your question to me is, what are these differences, if any?"

"Precisely."

How very typical of the superficial Vegan mentality, the Sirian
thought to himself. Worrying themselves over some minor biological
detail, when the obviously fascinating mystery lay in the creatures'
ability to cause nuclear fission and fusion. These thoughts he screened
from them, for the Vegans are quick to take offense, a rather childish
lot, for all of their advanced culture.

"Very well, I will look into that, too," he agreed and with
appropriate, interstellar amenities, took his leave Earthward.

       *       *       *       *       *

He looked for a concentration of "people," and he found one, scattered
along two miles of sandy beach adjacent to a nervously lapping body
of liquid which was aqueous, saline and incredibly full of lower
life-forms.

He hovered over the heads of the bathers at an altitude of less than
fifty feet, his person distributed almost the whole two miles of beach.
The sun being at its zenith, no one looked directly up, and if they had
they would have seen only a faint, golden glow.

He scanned the general atomic-molecular-cellular-structural patterns
of the entities, inventoried his own energy content, decided he could
just about make it, and set about carefully condensing his photons. As
the swirling energy came to a focus, people still did not stare up,
but hundreds sought the shade of their beach umbrellas, donned their
sun-glasses or decided they'd had enough for today.

Presently, he had himself organized into a ball of evanescence
two-hundred yards in diameter, all ready for the final compression.
This was the most tedious metamorphosis he had ever attempted--all
those nerve-endings, hair follicles, pores, sweat-glands!

He found a bare patch of sand, some fifteen feet across, just
vacated by a family of fourteen. In a rush he sought to complete the
transformation before the crowd expanded into it.

But wait! There was one decision more. He had, indeed, discovered
that there were two kinds of "humans" on the beach. The physiological
differences seemed very minor, and the deciding factor was that one
category wore attire only in one place, whereas the other covered its
body at two points, thus excluding a bit more of the delicious radiance
of the golden sun.

He decided to be a male.

"Well, he's got his nerve!"

"I should say so! Looka the skinny little runt, right in the middle a
that nice empty spot."

"Tell 'im to move over Fred. We saw it first."

The Sirian smiled at the palpable lie. "Please share it with me," he
said pleasantly, scooting over to one side.

His move was too precipitous. A long-legged blonde creature, pink and
supine, hunched to a sitting position. "Watch it, junior. You kicked
sand all over my sun-tan lotion."

"Oh, sorry!" He sent a super-gentle wave of vibratory energy out to
wipe off the offending grains of silica.

"Yipe! Why you fresh punk!" Then the blonde discovered that the fresh
punk was still six feet away. She turned to her henna-haired companion.
"Ye Gods, what a sensation! Goose flesh, yet." She rubbed on some more
lotion, turned over on her side and dug her blue-clad hip into the sand
under her blanket.

The Sirian studied the shapely back and buttocks, for which, in his
brand new orientation, he seemed to possess a peculiar aesthetic
appreciation. The intruder called Fred, in the act of spreading his
blanket, noticed his stare and laughed. "She's not for the likes of
you, Super-mouse."

The idiomatic allusion escaped the Sirian. He had thought he had
the language pattern mastered in his initial survey, but the item,
Super-mouse, apparently had a remote significance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Instinctively, he lashed out a sub-etheric feeler to probe the man's
brain--and just as instantly retrieved it. To his annoyance he
discovered an extremely sensitive and complex network of brain-waves
encasing and protecting the frontal lobes of the man's thinking
apparatus. Yes, his "subconscious" mind was easily available,
and therein was stored a fabulous assortment of inconsequential,
intellectual debris, including a knowledge of the language, but to sift
and sort that disorganized nest for one silly term seemed like more
trouble than asking what it meant.

So he did.

Fred replied, "You don't know Super-mouse? You should go to the movies.
Anyhow, I just meant you could use some meat on your bones, fellow."

He turned and dropped beside the brown-haired female beside him. "What
a character!" he told her.

The Sirian looked down at himself and understood the disparaging tone.
This point in his intergalactic journey had found his energy store
quite depleted, and the best he could "condense" into was a rather
grotesque, five-foot caricature of the specimens surrounding him.

His bony feet, knees and elbows wore the minimum allowable thicknesses
of flesh, but what seemed to amuse the neighbors most was his very pale
skin. This was by design rather than accident. Why pigment his skin to
exclude the intoxicating solar energy that was flooding his pitiful
earthform? If he had dared, he would have changed his translucent skin
to complete transparency, but that would have been too noticeable.

He became aware, also, that people were staring at the region of his
groin. Before he had time to probe his mistake of attire, however,
another couple moved into the shrinking bare spot of sand and
challenged his right to three whole square yards.

"Consolidate, will ya, mister?" The male was huge, hairy and
small-eyed. The female was the opposite. The only visible hair was a
rippling torrent of yellow gold that fell down her back in a graceful
sweep. She was tiny, tanned--and--the Sirian fumbled with his new
vocabulary--terrific!

Again that peculiar sensation of pleasure sent bubbles of pressure
into his throbbing temple veins. He had a name for the weird desire it
inspired. _Rut_, it was called, but he had no experience from which to
assess it.

Unfortunately, the man before him assessed his emotion swiftly and
accurately. "Whatcha gapin' at, squirt?"

"Why, uh, your female--" The man's face darkened, and the Sirian rushed
on searching for a more propitious term, "I mean, your broad, wife,
sweetheart, girl, doll, honey--"

Hampered by the sluggish mental equipment in this human format, he was
unable to select a semantically acceptable synonym, so he blurted all
he could think of.

"Why, you--"

He felt himself hoisted rudely by one thin arm, and suddenly the large,
dark face was jammed into his own. "Whadda ya mean, layin' there in a
broad's Bikini bathin' suit and callin' my broad a broad? What kind of
a queer are you, anyhow?"

"Oh, I'm very," the Sirian managed to strangle out.

"Very what?"

"What you said. Queer." He had no desire to offend these people, but
their expression indicated that his progress was poor.

"Are you trying to be insulting?" The man asked the question and seemed
to arrive at an affirmative answer simultaneously. He balled a fist and
pumped it solidly into the Sirian's midrift.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anticipating pain from the violent gesture, he blocked off the nerve
endings, reinforced his stomach muscles at the expense of some bony
tissue, and leaned into the blow. Transmuting the kinetic energy into
assimilable light, the Sirian enjoyed the tiny tweak of power.

The big man jerked back his wrist and stared at it. "Like a rock, yet.
Huh! Wipe that smirk off, Mac."

"I beg your pardon?"

"Still snotty, huh?" The big fellow slammed two lefts and two rights to
the body with no more effect.

The gorgeous blonde said, "Oh stop, Tony. He's one of these
whaddayacallems--masochists. He likes to get slugged. Now stop it, I
tell you, or the cops will--"

But Tony was unstoppable. Infuriated, he aimed a round-house right at
the Sirian's chin, and that individual, fearing for the structural
inadequacies of his neck, ducked.

Tony launched himself at full length in the direction of the
blue-buttocked blonde but made it only as far as her upright bottle
of sun-tan lotion. He crashed to the sand with considerable force.
Twisting his neck to save his nose from the sand, Tony brought his
temple in deadly line with the little rigid bottle.

From the solid jam of humanity came voices. "Wow, did you see the
little guy counter-punch him? Just like lightning."

"Naw, the big guy stumbled. He hit his head."

"On the bottle."

"The little guy? Yeah, he jabbed the big guy with the bottle. Dirty
fighting, I call it, even if he is littler."

"Here they come. Hey shorty, here come the cops. Better melt away
quick."

Things were out of focus for the Sirian. He lost the opportunity to
"melt away" and was shortly in custody.

The hearing and, later, the trial was so farcical as to be fascinating.
He hadn't intended an extensive study of the mores and morals of this
primitive culture, but the Sirian couldn't resist the intriguing
developments that piled one on top the other.

In the so-called court of law, not a single witness to the actual
"murder" appeared, except the terrific blonde. Yet a sizable parade
of strangers did appear to identify the accused and testify to his
cold-blooded act of violence.

It developed that:

A. Tony was a gangster-politician of some note.

B. Tony had mortal enemies in the underworld.

C. Tony had been deliberately baited.

D. The Sirian had carefully jabbed him in the temple.

E. The crime was premeditated.

F. The Sirian was a well-known judo-killer named Mike Sledge, of the
opposing underworld. (This last from the D.A.'s office).

The verdict was: GUILTY.

The penalty: DEATH.

As a last wish, the convicted man was granted the privilege of
immediate execution rather than enduring the usual delay.

This last threw the death-house into quite an uproar, but the Sirian
had no intention of languishing for weeks in confinement.

Exactly at midnight, he was led to the death chamber, sleeves and
pant-legs slit, head shaved and belly full of fried chicken to which he
had taken a fancy.

There was the priest, the press and the other witnesses. The chair
looked ugly and uncomfortable, but the crackling jolts of electricity
were worth it. They sent trickles of pure ecstasy through the Sirian's
power-thirsty being. But they were only trickles, and comparatively
short. They tried him at 30,000 volts, 40,000, 50,000. But then he
deliberately lowered his body resistance in order to drink up more
amperage and blew all the fuses.

They held him twenty-four hours out of pure curiosity while the
doctors had a field day. But the press championed his cause, and he was
set free.

       *       *       *       *       *

The blonde was waiting in a black Cadillac. The blonde had just
collected Tony's insurance and was now obsessed with the thought that
any guy who could soak up electricity like that must have shocking
possibilities.

The Sirian settled back in the leopard-skin upholstery and sighed. As
the vehicle moved off into the darkness, a soft, perfumed arm slipped
around his neck. "My poor, poor Mike," the voice came like the purr
of a mink. "I'll bet he doesn't feel well. Please don't be angry with
little me for testifying against you."

"Don't mention it," _Mike_ replied. "And I feel very well, thank you."
This was the truth. With nearly a million watts of pure 60-cycle A.C.
under his belt, the Sirian had been able to expand his puny physique
slightly. At least his red blood count was up to normal now.

"Only one thing," he remarked, "I am tired of being pestered with
reporters. Where could we go to escape them?"

"Oh dear, that is a problem." She looked out the rear window. "They are
following, of course. And they'll have my penthouse staked out like
sharks around a desert island."

"That reminds me," Mike said. "This Bikini I was wearing at the time of
the crime--"

She giggled. "You did look silly."

"Well, what I want to know is, why did they call my trunks by such a
name? My understanding is that Bikini is the name of an island in the
Pacific Ocean."

"Yeah, I guess. Where they popped the H-bomb."

"H-bomb?" At last the hazy double meaning became clear to him. His
subconscious survey of many human minds had found nuclear energy mixed
up with females' scanty bathing attire, and the connection had evaded
him until this moment. "Could we see one if we went there?"

"One what?"

"An H-bomb, of course."

"Oh, naturally. The government would just love to show us how they
shoot off a H-bomb," she said. He missed the sarcasm entirely. "Matter
of fact, they're testing out there again this week. Why don't you call
up the president."

"That won't be necessary," he said seriously. In the space of eight
micro-seconds, he volatilized, visited the Pentagon, stripped the
exact location of the next nuclear bomb detonation from an agonized
general, and returned to the Cadillac. The blonde, of course, was
unaware of his brief absence.

"Just as I thought," he told her. "It's a nice, secluded spot where you
and I can be all alone for a little while. And I can poke around and
see what makes these bombs tick."

"Fine, fine," she purred in his ear. "Let's go."

She thought he was kidding.

It was an hour before dawn on the atoll when he re-materialized the
Cadillac, blonde and all, on the coral beach. Only the chauffeur had
been left behind.

"What's that sound," she cried a little startled.

"Just the surf."

"Be darned! I don't remember telling Smith to drive us to--oh well,
it's quiet, isn't it honey?"

The Sirian sent out a probe and located the tower with the huge
nuclear device suspended below it. He was about to close in and focus
on the construction and composition when the voice in his ear hissed
intimately, "Mike, darling, where are you?"

"Me? Why, I'm right here."

"Hadda feeling you were miles away."

"Not at all. Just about twenty-five yards is all. It's located right
over there."

"What's located where?"

"The hydrogen bomb. Just over that first hump. You can see the tower."

"Don't be silly," she said giggling. "It's jet black out there. Real
dark, and private, and Smith's gone off somewhere. We're all alone,
darling. Just like you wanted."

       *       *       *       *       *

And now the Sirian, alias Mike Sledge, learned that there were other
than visual methods of aesthetic appreciation. Hundred-dollar-a-dram
perfume assailed his olfactory tissues from her warm body, turning
certain miniscule glands within him into busy chemical factories.

Her finger-tips trailed over his shaved head, and he almost threw out a
nerve block before he realized that the sensation was psycho-physical
rather than electronic.

"Show me!" she whispered.

"Show you what?"

"How you did it. How you fought back all that juice. All that terrible
electricity!"

"I didn't fight it. I just soaked it up."

"Soaked it--?" She gasped, and the passion was vibrant in her voice.
"It's--it's all in you? Now?"

"Of course."

"Oh, my darling! Kiss me!"

The custom of kissing, was known to the Sirian, but known only on the
academic level until this moment. Her lips were moist and full and
demanding.

"Fantastic!" she said in a flat voice.

"Well, thank you," he said, sitting back with a ridiculous feeling of
smug pleasure at her response.

"Fantastic how a guy can sweat out the hot-seat and kiss like a
high school sophomore." Her tone of voice led him to delve into the
idiomatic roots of her words, and he came away deflated.

"I, ah, let's try again," he suggested.

He had been holding himself slightly aloof from the sensation
thresholds of this primitive body, but now he let himself sink deeply
into the full neuro-muscular morass of feelings and emotions. The
effect was astonishing, confusing, overwhelming.

Tearing his lips loose he demanded, "What is it?"

"What's what?"

"This--this, whatever we're doing?" Somehow they had become oddly
entwined, and his tactile sensations were blossoming like a nova.

Her head slipped past his face, and her sharp teeth nibbled at his ear.
"You _are_ a strange one, honey. It's kissing. It's love-making. And
incidentally, you're doing all right now. Kiss me again, honey. All
those volts! Make me feel it. Make me--"

He piled his hastily contrived, but entirely functional, orbicular
organs upon hers so hard that their teeth clashed. The nova inside him
burgeoned and whirled as though feeding on some hidden hydrogen-helium
infusion. Minutes flashed into eternity. Then an hour, and the crazy
crescendo of emotion was still mounting between them.

Then at the first streak of dawn, his bony arms crushed her to him in
a clasp that sent the universe exploding in one solid bath of pure,
nutrient energy.

His pores opened, and he drank--for one micro-second, two
micro-seconds, three, four, five--and suddenly he found himself
reeling into the stratosphere, up, up, out of the cloying air into the
comfortable, naked void, trailing neutrons, extravagantly, strewing
protons, hiccoughing electrons. At last he stabilized his mass-energy
ratio, drew in his peripheral photons and shimmered to a trembling
focus.

       *       *       *       *       *

Instantly he was surrounded with Vegans, chittering with curiosity,
dipping and oscillating their silvery disks in the raw, unfiltered
light of the yellow sun.

"Did you learn anything?"

"A little."

"Did you--metamorphose as a native?" they asked expectantly.

"I did," he admitted reluctantly.

"Well, tell us about it. All about it!"

"I was accused of murder, tried in a court of law, convicted, sentenced
to death and executed."

"Irrelevant," a Vegan snapped. "Tell us about the two categories. Did
you find out about that?"

"Yes."

"Is there a significant difference?"

"They call it sex," the Sirian temporized.

"Come, come, delete the alien terminology."

"There are men--and there are women," he said, striving to gather his
thoughts and his dignity about him. It was no use. The patina of his
vastly expanded corona was a dead, pink giveaway. "Just one minute
ago," he confessed, "I was a man, juxtaposed with a woman, exploring
the differences between the categories."

"Were the differences important? Significant?"

"To the humans, _very_!" He tried to sound detached.

The Vegans wouldn't be put aside. "Naturally they'd be important to the
primitives, but how about to you? Subjectively?"

"A few minor anatomical differences, that's all. Added up to very
little." His words were belied by tiny streaks of badly polarized
photons.

The Vegans radiated ripples of disappointment, losing what little
patience they possessed. One blurted out angrily, "Very well, if you
can't explain sex, what about the nuclear reactions? You should be an
expert on that subject. You appeared to ascend from the very island
where they just fused a lithium-hydride bomb."

"Bomb?" the Sirian said dazedly. "What bomb?"

The Vegans circled him and vibrated with cynical laughter. "So this
mysterious sex had no impact upon you?"

The void was filled with their noxious, ill-mannered jeers, but the
Sirian was still too disorganized to feel very embarrassed.

"What happened to the female--the _woman_ you said you were with--what
happened to her?" asked a Vegan.

The Sirian involuntarily phased his photons into a mental image of
the voluptuous, golden-haired native girl, but without the primitive
earth-body with which to react endocrinologically, the vision failed to
renew the corpuscular palpitations which were already damping out.

"The woman?" he repeated wistfully turning toward his home star and
venting a cosmic sigh. "You might say she met with a Sirius accident."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE VEGANS WERE CURIOUS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
