The Project Gutenberg eBook of Stellar Vengeance, by Frank Freeman

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Stellar Vengeance

Author: Frank Freeman

Release Date: October 3, 2021 [eBook #66456]

Language: English


Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STELLAR VENGEANCE ***




               By accident Granger saw the aliens land,
            so with scientific curiosity he captured one of
            them. This incident made Earth the scene of a--

                           Stellar Vengeance

                           By Frank Freeman

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             February 1955
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"You must realize," squealed the squat, ugly creature in the hastily
constructed wooden cage, "that you're inviting certain destruction by
holding me prisoner. I warn you, your time is short."

Walt Granger stomped over to the enclosure and swung a heavy boot
against one of the two-by-fours that stood like a crooked row of
sentries. "That's my worry," he grunted.

He had stumbled upon the whole business just two hours before, right in
the middle of his part of the geoglogic survey that was going on in the
rock strewn hills and gullies known on the maps as the Millsport Range.
He had seen the ship the moment it left the ground, and a few yards
from the burned circle of grass that was still smoldering from the
rocket blast, there sat the fat little specimen of life from another
world. Granger had caught the thing by surprise and had a rope around
its middle before it could scamper into the brush.

"My comrades will return for me," warned the thing, its yellowish
eyes slowly and rhythmically protruding and withdrawing within their
sockets. "They'll have no trouble finding you, and when they do...."

"Shut up!" snapped Granger, pulling on his leather jacket. He turned
to the cement fireplace and gave the embers a poke with a charred
stick, looking around at the cage every few seconds as though he feared
leaving his back turned for more than instant.

He looked at his watch. Eight o'clock, and night was fast spreading a
blanket of charcoal shadows over the hillsides. He'd wait till morning
to move this crazy beast to the next camp six miles away. A night trip
might entail chances he wasn't willing to take.

After a couple of nervous fumbles with a match, he lit a cigarette
and glanced uneasily out the one window in the rough cabin. What if
the alien, or whatever it was, wasn't kidding about the danger he was
in? What if his buddies did decide to come back before morning with
the extermination of a human on their minds? Think of it, Granger, he
told himself laconically, you'd be a hero! A nice, cold, dead one. And
they'd never find the bunch who'd have knocked him off. He'd be one of
those "mysterious deaths" the papers played up.

"Free me immediately!" screeched the angry captive, his head swaying
like a balloon on a stick. "You haven't much time left!"

"You're a nasty tempered little imp, aren't you?" growled Granger as he
strode across the room and peeked curiously inside the crate.

"I loathe you," growled the thing. "I have no intentions of deceiving
you. This whole situation is simply a matter of pure logic so far as
your plight is concerned."

"You're forgetting," said Granger, his voice lacking a certain amount
of its previous confidence, "that you're the one who's in a mess."

"Only temporarily, you fool!" raved the creature, jumping frantically
up and down. "Look!" he screamed, pointing a tiny hand toward the
window over Granger's left shoulder.

The geologist gasped as he shot a quick glance in the direction of the
thing's outstretched arm. A pale green light had turned the surrounding
land and sky into an eerie dawn that extended its weird phosphorescence
into the cabin itself. And two hundred yards from the cabin, in a small
area relatively clear of major obstructions, was the same ship he had
seen a few hours before.

"They're here!" shouted the alien. "Let me out!"

Granger slammed shut the door and lifted a massive oak bar into iron
brackets on either side. Then he was at the window again. A hatch near
the bottom of the craft was open, but there was no sign of movement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then he saw one of them, an exact duplicate of his captive, running
from bush to bush about fifty feet from the ship. A few steps behind
him was another. Two more nearby scrambled over an immense boulder and
scurried into the brush. Another five were emerging, like a patrol of
midgets, from a ravine to the north of the cabin.

"Be sensible, you idiot!" snarled the thing in the crate. "I'm giving
you this final chance. Unlock this contrivance, and all will be well
with you. I'll speak on your behalf."

"So you can lead your buddies right back here? Sure," said Granger,
"that's all I'd have to do to finish myself off in a real hurry."

"Do as I say!" yelled the alien. "For your own sake!"

"Look," panted Granger, "I know I was crazy to fool with you in the
first place, but now that you're here and they're outside, you're
staying, see?"

He reached under the lumpy pile of cotton that served as a mattress
and pulled out his .30-30 rifle. Little Boy Blue and his pop gun, he
thought. He grabbed a handful of cartridges from a box under the bed
and began jamming them into the magazine.

"That will be of no use, my friend," droned a hollow voice behind him.

Granger spun himself around just as a pane of glass in the window flew
to pieces under the impact of a short, shiny gun barrel. A perfect
reproduction of the face of the creature in the cage centered itself
in the jagged frame of the broken window and gave him the shadow of a
smile that was closer to a victorious leer.

"Put down your weapon," the newcomer ordered coldly.

Get that rifle up fast, Granger commanded himself.

"I repeat," said the face at the window. "Lower your weapon."

They'll let you have it anyway, Granger thought grimly. He slowly
curled his finger around the trigger and started to move when he was
jarred off his feet by a roaring blast that ripped the door from its
hinges and sent it crashing against the rear wall of the cabin.

Outside the ruined entrance stood a group of aliens all armed.
Fearfully, he looked to the window, but their leader was gone. In a
second he appeared at the door, moved inside the cabin, and Granger
automatically stepped back, his hazy mind calculating roughly the few
feet of escape route remaining to him. In a moment he was there, his
back flattened against the cabin wall.

The short creature kept coming on, its murky orbs fixed on Granger's
white, drawn countenance. Then it stopped its advance.

"So you have one of our people," it said in a voice that twanged like
piano wire.

Granger tried once in vain for his voice, then gave up. He stared over
the head of his foe at the silent assembly outside the cabin, then at
the thing in the packing crate. It was sitting there, quiet, immobile,
but intently watching the scene between the earthman and his visitor.

"You are holding one of us captive," the commander remarked. "This is
a most unfortunate situation, indeed." The small figure stepped aside
quickly and waved an arm.

Granger, perspiration trickling down his face, watched a score of
glistening weapons raised and pointed inside the cabin. For a second
he looked directly at the menacing horde. Then his eyes saw nothing. A
blazing flash of white light burst forth from the doorway, and it was
all over.

Granger forced open his aching eyes and squinted in the direction of
the fiery blast, but the doorway was empty. The commander was still
there, though, walking slowly to the door.

Why am I alive? Granger asked himself incredulously. Or am I dead? He
bumped his fist against his forehead once or twice and gave his head
a vigorous shake. Suddenly, he turned his gaze to the cage. But he saw
nothing that resembled the rebuilt packing crate; only a mound of ashes
and twisted spikes. In the center of the heap, like a fat, dwarfish
king astride his fallen kingdom, was the charred, blackened shell of
the grotesque creature that had once occupied the wooden cell.

Then he moved cautiously toward the door and stared, speechless, at the
leader of the expedition.

"We shall depart now," said the being. "Thank you for helping us."

       *       *       *       *       *

Not much later, across the silent reaches of space, a communications
operator on another planet looked up from his receiving equipment and
handed his superior a message just transmitted from a ship leaving the
planet Earth: RETURN MISSION SUCCESSFUL. DESERTER LOCATED AND EXECUTED.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STELLAR VENGEANCE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
