The Project Gutenberg eBook of You Don't Walk Alone, by Frank M. Robinson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: You Don't Walk Alone

Author: Frank M. Robinson

Release Date: October 13, 2021 [eBook #66529]

Language: English


Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK YOU DON'T WALK ALONE ***




               You've heard reports about strange lights
           in the sky--flying saucers and all that rubbish!
            A Joke? Illusion? Possibly, unless, of course--

                         You Don't Walk Alone

                         By Frank M. Robinson

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                              March 1955
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


It wasn't my idea--I wasn't the first one to think of it. It started
with John Kelley, who passed the idea on to me. And I'm going to do
something about it. I think John wanted to but he never got the chance.

It began about two months ago when I was sitting at the lunch counter
in Chicago's LaSalle Street station, drinking coffee. I was on my
second cup when John walked in. He saw me about the same time I
saw him and came over to the counter and we gave each other the
I-haven't-seen-you-for-years-what-are-you-doing-now routine.

Which was a laugh, in a way, because while he wouldn't know what I had
been doing, I couldn't help but know what he had been doing. And so
would you if I told you his right name. You wouldn't have recognized
him, of course. He was the inconspicuous type, the sort of man who
blended in so well with his background you would have had to hunt to
find him, even if he was standing right in front of you. He was thin,
not particularly tall, with limp, straw colored hair that clung close
to his scalp and a complexion that had never been exposed to the sun.
He was dressed in an old blue suit, a shapeless hat that might have
been new five years ago, and a lightweight gray topcoat that hadn't
been cleaned and pressed since he had bought it.

See? You wouldn't have noticed him at all.

It's a somewhat deceptive description, of course. John could have
afforded a Brooks Brothers suit and at least one Cadillac but the fact
was that he preferred being inconspicuous and in his job it was a
definite advantage. Both John and I were reporters but the difference
was--as Oscar Levant would say--the difference between talent and
genius.

He ordered coffee then gave me a once-over with a pair of tired blue
eyes that took in everything from my brown shoes that needed a shine to
the newest thing in string bow-ties.

"How's it going, Charley?"

I blew the loose sugar off a doughnut and dangled it just over the edge
of the cup. "It goes all right. It could be better but I suppose it
could be worse, too. What brings you to Chicago?"

"I'm on a story."

"Sorry," I said. "I didn't mean to pry."

He got a refill on his coffee and stirred in half a pound of sugar.
"You're not prying. As a matter of fact, maybe you can help me."

"What's up?"

"I'm doing a story about an invasion. It's one that started just a few
years ago, one that I'm afraid was highly successful, and one that I
think is still going on."

I looked at him blankly. "Invasion? What invasion?"

"One from out in space," he said casually. "You know, one from another
planet or another star. That type of invasion."

I sat there letting my coffee grow cold because all the time I was
thinking that the one thing in the world John Kelley didn't possess was
a sense of humor. As long as I had known him he had never told a joke
and came damn close to never laughing at any.

"I don't recall any reports of anybody running around with six arms or
green skin or tentacles instead of limbs," I protested mildly.

       *       *       *       *       *

He shook his head, deadly serious. "You're not looking at it logically,
Charley. The only beings who would be interested in the planet in the
first place are beings who could live here. And if they could live
here, then it's possible they could have the same sort of physical
make-up." He paused. "Maybe the exact same sort of physical make-up.
Even to the extent of the average man's desire to avoid trouble."

Kelley had something there. Every time you think of an invasion from
outer space, you think of a hundred huge rocket ships settling down
with ray guns going full blast and king-sized atomic bombs breaking up
the landscape. Actually, of course, it doesn't have to be like that at
all. Granted a physical resemblance in the first place, then maybe it
wouldn't be an invasion. It might be more of an ... infiltration.

I jerked my thumb towards the people who crowded around the train
gates and sprawled out on the benches. "You mean that some of those
people aren't ... genuine?"

"That's right," John said slowly. "Some of them aren't the real McCoy."

I watched the people for a moment more, staring hard at the old man
buying a paper at the newsstand and the old woman who was selling it to
him.

"How can you tell which are which?"

"I can't. So far as I know, there isn't any way."

He had forgotten his coffee now. It sat at his elbow, an unappetizing
mixture of lukewarm grounds, cigarette ash, and disintegrated doughnut.

"Any leads?"

"You've been reading them every day, Charley. A dozen times a year
somebody sees flashes in the sky, a dozen times lights settle down in
relatively uninhabited sections of the country. Sure, people see them
and report them. And what happens?" He shrugged. "The papers treat
them as part of the silly season, readers only glance at the reports.
You know as well as I that nobody packs up a camera to go out and
investigate."

I took another look around the station. The bored people, sitting on
benches and reading their papers. The mother with her baby, sleeping
now but one you knew would be squalling in a few minutes. The porter
sweeping up just in front of the wash-room. The man in the information
booth rifling through a stack of time-tables.

All very prosaic all very every dayish. I turned back to Kelley, my
face showing disbelief.

"You don't believe me, do you?"

I turned up my hands. "It's a pretty big order, John."

"That's the one big drawback--convincing people." He sat there for a
moment, fingering the check the waitress had given him, then made up
his mind. "Meet me tonight by the library, Randolph street side. Nine
o'clock. I'll have some photographs along."

I reached for my hat. "Exhibit A better be pretty convincing John."
And oddly enough, I didn't have any doubts but what they would be. His
reputation was that good.

It was a nice, warm summer night when I got to the library a couple
of minutes after nine. Downtown was already filling up with teenagers
and pick-ups who flutter around the bright-lights like moths around a
candle. I stood on the library steps and waited watching people crowd
out of the IC entrance.

I had smoked my way through half a pack of cigarettes before it
occurred to me that maybe John wasn't going to show. My first thought
was that he had pulled a gag on me. My next was that something had
delayed him. I started to walk over to his hotel.

Between Michigan and Wabash, right next door to the library, there's a
small street that's more of an alley than a street. Street cars used to
turn down it before the Chicago Transit Authority got into office and a
lot of trucks use it to make deliveries. It's not too well lighted and
the only people who use it at night to cut through from Washington to
Randolph are people in a hurry.

You're way ahead of me, I know. And you're right. But you're wrong
if you think I found him after five minutes of playing Sherlock. The
police found him at three in the morning after they had combed the loop
half the night.

John Kelley was in one of the store fronts, his head bashed in.

       *       *       *       *       *

John Kelley was the first martyr to the cause. In a lot of ways,
he didn't make a very good one. The papers put it down to gangland
enemies--the usual explanation for murders in Chicago--and for a while
I thought I had convinced myself that they were right.

Then I caught myself glancing behind me when I walked up dark streets
at night and staring hard at the mirror in the local bar, watching the
people on the stools and wondering which were real and which were fake.
Kelley's story had started to haunt me and I couldn't shake it.

I thought maybe a vacation would help so I pulled strings at the office
and got the last two weeks in July. I usually take my two weeks up
in northern Wisconsin, around Hayward and Spooner and the Chippewa
Flowage. It's one of the best fishing spots in the nation--everything
from muskies to bullheads, bass to trout. You can take along a small
fortune in flyrod for game fish, or you can have a lot of fun with a
plain bamboo pole and bobber for pan fish.

Fred Gray--he was in the advertising department--went along with me.
After all, fishing is a gregarious sport and besides, whoever heard of
going alone? And Fred was the kind of man who was good company. The
big, bluff variety with a string of stories as long as your arm.

We packed up Friday night and left early Saturday. With both of us
trading off on the driving, it was still a fourteen hour trip. If we
pushed it we could get to the Flowage early Saturday evening.

Fred took his turn at the wheel first and I sat in the back seat and
snoozed. When I woke up it was early afternoon and the towns and the
farmlands had started to fall away and there were longer and longer
stretches of second growth timber and wild looking country that was
largely devoted to Indian reservations. And even then, the shacks were
getting fewer and fewer--an occasional wisp of smoke every few miles
marking a cabin back in the brush.

I took the wheel and when we had about two hours to go, I stopped at a
cross-roads store to pick up some groceries. While I was picking over
the bacon and the pancake flour and the cornmeal, Fred was glancing
through the assortment of plugs in the beat-up showcase near the door.

I took what we needed up to the counter and slid them across to the
character who ran the place. He was an old man, the veins standing out
big and blue on his arms and his face showing the effects of a lot more
than just age.

"Henney's pancake flour is real good flour," he said, glancing at the
box I had picked out.

"What's wrong with this?"

"Nothing--just make a couple more cents on Henney's."

I started for a moment, then decided to be obliging and went back and
got a package of Henney's. "Do you have any white flour?"

"Yep, we got flour. Comes in bulk--gotta ask for it."

He fixed me up with a paper bag containing a couple of pounds, then
started to figure how much I owed him, using a pencil and a hunk of
wrapping paper.

"Pretty dead around here, isn't it?"

"Sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't."

Fred came over with a brilliant red and blue striped plug. "How much?"

The old man glanced at the plug and then at Fred. "Two fifty, maybe."

Fred dug for the money and I said, "When isn't it dead around here?"

"Last night, for one." He pocketed the two fifty. "Lots of lights off
in the woods a spell. Figured it was some city people. Local folks go
to bed at a decent time of night."

       *       *       *       *       *

I stood there looking at him and John Kelley's nightmare crawled out
of the dim recesses of my mind where I thought I had buried it, and
squatted right between my eyes, like a big, friendly collie dog making
itself at home. Lights. Late at night lights. Lights like in a hundred
news reports I had filed and forgotten.

I opened my mouth to say something and then let it go. An old school
bus had ground to a stop out in front. The driver came in and I didn't
more than glance at him. Young fellow, tanned, wearing marine fatigue
pants and a white tee shirt. A vet, I thought. You see a hundred like
him every day.

He jerked a thumb towards the gas pump in front. "Need some gas, Pop.
About ten should do it."

The old man gave up figuring what I owed him and went out to fill the
tank. I tried to strike up a conversation.

"Beautiful country around here."

"Sure is. I like it best in the summertime."

"Do much fishing?"

He shrugged. "Some. I'm generally pretty busy."

I looked out through the window at the bus where the old man was
cranking the gas pump counting the profits on ten gallons of gas. The
bus itself was battered and scarred, the red and yellow paint flaking
off the sides. It was filled with adults--most of them young--and a
sprinkling of kids.

"Some kind of outing?"

He laughed. "That's right. The Young People's League from the Methodist
Church in Winook."

"Hard group to keep entertained, huh?"

He made a face and said, "You know how it goes."

The old man came back from the pump. "That's two seventy-six, son. Took
a little over ten."

The driver paid and started for the door.

"See you around," I said.

"Yeah, sure thing."

I turned back to the old man and asked, "What do I owe you for the
groceries?"

"Call it three and a quarter," he said slowly, not taking his eyes off
the window where the bus still sat while the driver worked the gas
pedal. The aimless whirring finally caught and the bus lumbered off.
"Something funny there. Real funny."

"What do you mean?"

He came out of it, took my money, and leaned closer so even Fred, who
was still fingering plugs at the far counter, couldn't hear. "You know,
that young feller came by last night and that bus of his was empty.
There's a fork in the road up ahead and he went to the right. Nothing
up that away at all. The road just deadheads into the brush for about
three miles and that's it. And I would've sworn that's where he came
from just now. Didn't hear him go back last night and ain't seen him
all morning. Don't know where all those people come from."

"He said they were from some young people's group in Winook."

The old man looked surprised. "Winook? No town around here by that name
that I heard of--and I been here a mighty long time."

I picked up my load of groceries and started for the door. "Maybe I
misunderstood him," I mumbled. "He must've meant some other town."

Out in the car, I let the motor idle for a minute. Up the road for
about three miles, the old man had said. My stomach felt funny and the
palms of my hands were oozing dampness. But I had to take a look, I had
to go.

"What's the matter?" Fred asked.

"Nothing," I said. I put the car in gear and went straight ahead. I
took the right fork.

"Where you going?"

"Just up the road a bit. I want to check on something."

He looked sour. "It's after six now. We don't have much time."

"It'll only take a couple of minutes."

He turned indifferent. "Suit yourself. I was thinking we might get some
fishing in." He let it hang there and I almost changed my mind. You
know how it is with fishing. If there's any daylight at all, you want
to at least trail a hook in the water before hitting the sack.

       *       *       *       *       *

The asphalt changed to loose gravel and I ground my teeth every time
I thought of what the gravel and the dust were doing to the finish of
the car. It took ten minutes to make those three miles. Then the gravel
thinned out and we came to the end of the road in a small clearing
rimmed with pine trees and other scrub timber.

Fred was surly. "Here we are--now what the hell was it that you wanted
to see?"

I got out and stretched, then put my hands on my hips and looked around
the clearing. It almost looked like Fred was right. There wasn't a damn
thing to be seen. Brush and trees and knee-high grass and the two inch
mosquitoes that only seem to come out at dusk. Then I saw what looked
like a piece of paper by one of the trees. I ran over and picked it up.
It was paper and yet not paper--it looked more like a fusion of paper
and plastic with an odd kind of printing on it. I couldn't shake the
idea that it was a scrap of some foreign paper. Then I looked around
and saw where the grass was trampled and where a rough path led back
through the woods.

I yelled, "I'll only be gone a minute!" and started out.

It was longer than a minute. It was the longest half hour in my life.
The path wound between trees and through little gulleys and I had
trouble following it because the sun was going down and shadows half
hid the path. And then I came out in another clearing--a big clearing.
It took me a minute to appreciate the fact that the center of the
clearing wasn't a clearing so much as a depression. A large, neat,
circular depression where small trees, bushes, and grass had been
mashed flat to a pasty smear of green.

And then I saw other things. Bits of clothing--clothing made of cloth
that I didn't recognize. More of the plastic-paper, some wrapped around
lumps of what I imagined was food. I circled the clearing. The path I
had taken was the only exit--or entrance.

And you're way ahead of me again, aren't you? Kelley had been right all
along. The lights the old man had seen the night before were those of
a ship from God only knew where. The young man with the bus had gone
there earlier that evening to pick up his passengers.

The bus driver. The bus driver who had reminded me of a hundred
other people I had known. Or two hundred. Or a thousand. And his
curious-faced passengers, none of whom had gotten out to stretch their
legs or buy a candy bar or chance a nickel in the coke machine or take
advantage of the pause that refreshes.

I looked round the clearing again. Before they had gotten on the bus,
they had changed clothes and then ... they had had a picnic.

Which I suppose was as good a way as any to start their first day on
Earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cabin was small and cozy and smelled of pine and cedar and fish. I
sat on one of the bunks and pawed through a suit-case while Fred moved
around and lighted kerosene lamps and played boy scout with the fire
place. I found what I was looking for and then discovered a glass on
the window sill. I wiped it out, thinking all the time about detective
stories where the private eye took his straight--in a dirty glass.

Fred didn't approve of drinking on fishing trips and his plump face
showed it.

"You look scared, Charley."

"I am."

"Something to do with going into the woods back there?"

"That's right. A lot to do with it."

He sat on the bunk opposite me and concentrated on tamping tobacco into
his pipe. "You wouldn't care to tell me about it, would you?"

"Sure, I'll tell you," I said. "I'll tell anybody. I'll tell the whole
world." I tilted the glass to my lips and let the liquid burn its way
down. "It started with a damned good friend of mine named Kelley." And
I told Fred the same story that Kelley had told me. And I told him what
I had discovered back in the woods.

Fred laughed. "You're taking it too seriously, Charley. If you did some
research on it, I'd bet you ten to one that you'd find a natural cause
for everything."

"I've done some research," I said tightly. "Only I didn't know that I
was doing it at the time."

I felt a little reluctant to talk. This wasn't the sort of setting
where you talked about an invasion from another world. The door of the
cabin was open and I could smell the lake and the night air and the
nearby pines. It made it seem so damned unreal.

"What kind of research?"

"Nothing intentional--just stuff I picked up every day." The level in
the bottle went down another half an inch. "They're running a regular
commuter service, Fred. They're bringing them in by the thousands. By
the hundreds of thousands. And all within the last few years."

He seemed interested. "Why do you say the last few years?"

I shivered. "The number of sightings of strange lights in the sky that
have been made, for one thing. And population statistics for another.
Our birthrate has been declining for some time. But in recent years the
population has shot way up. More than it should."

"It's the veterans. Starting new families."

"Yeah? How many vets do you know with a lot of kids?"

"Anything else?" Fred asked softly.

"It's the perfect time for it," I mumbled. "World's all mixed up,
everything is in a state of flux. They could land and how could you
tell? DP's come into the country every day. That's one reason why we
never notice."

"And you can't tell the aliens from human beings, can you?"

"No, you can't." I paused and wiped away the sweat from my forehead.
"They're perfect copies. There's no way of finding them out. The man
in the store could have been one. The driver was--and I couldn't have
guessed." I laughed. "You could be one, too, for that matter."

He was up at the fireplace, stirring the embers again. When I finished
talking he turned around, the poker clutched in his hand. His face was
impassive.

"Not only could be, Charley. I am."

I suppose there's a time in everybody's life when the chips are down
and you have to react automatically, you have no room for thought. I
let him have the bottle square in the face and then the poker glanced
off my shoulder and he was on me.

He gripped me by the throat and forced me back against the wall.
"You'll never leave alive," he said and it was like ice-water down my
neck because he said it in a monotone, with no emotion at all. I tried
to break his grip and couldn't and then the world turned a spotty black
and I could feel my life start to slip away like a bar of wet soap.

I fell to the floor and doubled my knees and drove my heavy boots into
his stomach. He had to loosen his hold then and for a moment I was
free. I didn't waste time and I didn't bother about fighting fair.

We both went for the poker but I got there first.

I killed a man that night. Without compunction, without regrets,
without any hesitation. I killed Fred and buried him in the woods and
loaded the car that same night.

When I started the car it kicked right over and I spun out of there,
gravel spraying from beneath the wheels. I didn't breathe any easier
until I was a hundred miles away.

       *       *       *       *       *

I thought a lot about what I was going to do on the way back. I'm
not the hero type but I just can't see them move in on Earth without
fighting back. And I consider Fred only the downpayment on John
Kelley's murder.

One important thing. I've found a flaw, a weak spot.

The invaders are imitators. The perfect imitators. They're a lot like
Fred was. They never have original ideas of their own, they parrot the
editorial pages and even the stock of jokes they save for stag parties
aren't funny because you've heard them all before.

You can see them on the street-car on their way to work. Half will
sit with blank stares on their faces, reading the transitads, while
the other half will sit with their noses buried in their papers. Watch
them. If they looked alike you'd be reminded of the rockettes on the
stage of the RCA Music Hall. Or walk into a bar when the fights are
on and watch the customers with their faces glued to the TV sets. All
with their glasses of beer in the right hand, all with the same rapt
expressions on their faces.

You see, they're imitating human beings. And they've got an
organization. They've infiltrated the government bureaucracy. How do I
know? Read some of the pamphlets the government puts out. There's one
on washing dishes that starts out with the proper size pan. Silly. But
not for somebody for whom washing dishes is a brand new experience. And
there's another pamphlet that says younger married men and women own
more sports clothes, older men wear hats, and older women have more
fur coats. Very interesting data. Like when I was in the army and they
briefed us on foreign customs before going out on a pass.

There's probably thousands of Imitators in the government itself,
weighing, analyzing, and surveying humanity so they can issue reports
on how to act ... like a human being. Reports and pamphlets that are
point for point instruction books for the new arrivals.

There's an organization. And there has to be somebody at the top of
that organization. That's the man I want to get.

Fred knew a lot of people, he had a lot of contacts, and I'm
investigating them one by one. It isn't going to be too long before
I meet somebody that Fred knew back ... home. And then I'll find out
about the organization and I'll be on my way.

I already have a good idea whom I'm looking for. He's an average man
with maybe a wife and a couple of kids, driving last year's car and
living in a house that isn't all paid for. He likes TV and he drinks
beer and he's drummed up a hell of a lot of interest in baseball
games. He probably wears blue serge and white shirts and small figured
ties and silk socks and black shoes. Maybe he even wears a hat, he's
probably that age.

And I think there's even a good chance he's reading this magazine. It's
become pretty popular, it's the thing to do.

But it isn't going to do any good to run or hide or doubt your friends.
Someday I'm going to find you.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK YOU DON'T WALK ALONE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
