The Project Gutenberg eBook of Problem Planet, by Russ Winterbotham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Problem Planet

Author: Russ Winterbotham

Release Date: October 22, 2021 [eBook #66590]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PROBLEM PLANET ***





                            PROBLEM PLANET

                         By Russ Winterbotham

               A spacewreck presents many complications
            not in the rule book. Take survival--it's quite
            a basic instinct--but to some, so is politics!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                               June 1955
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Quibblers may shove dictionaries in my face till the end of the
universe and I will always maintain that almost anything you can name
is a matter of good luck or bad. Every great man owes his success to
luck of some sort. What made him great is what he did with his luck
after he got it.

Had I been born eleven years before Senator Clive Littlebrook, I might
have been brilliant to the point of stupidity, as he was. Nobody
planned that I should be 24 when he was 35, and a space pilot instead
of a senator. He had eleven years to get smarter than me. But all of
his brilliance and all of my youthful innocence couldn't have prevented
our being spacewrecked on a lonely, uninhabited planet. We knew it was
lonely and thought it was uninhabited, as it almost was. It was the
second planet of an unimportant sun, Yuga 16, which lay unexpectedly in
our path through hyperspace while I drove him to an important committee
meeting on Arcturus III. As a result I had to dump our fuel to alter
our mass in order to avoid a direct collision. And naturally there was
nothing else to do but land on II Yuga 16.

So we were marooned and even if our radio had been powerful enough to
send out an S O S it would take years for our message to get anywhere.

Clive was philosophical about it. After cussing me for three hours, he
decided that we'd better make the best of our situation. We could fight
when we had less important things to do.

"I have always maintained," he said, "that even in its smallest
detail, a human settlement must be political. And I've also believed
that politics must be designed to fit environment."

He always talked like that, so I wasn't particularly impressed till he
had talked a few minutes more, expanding his point.

"--so on this planet we will have a one-party, autocratic rule. I will
be the head of the government, and you will be my constituency."

"Huh?"

"It is perfectly clear. Dave," said Clive. "I have had experience in
political matters, therefore I'm more suited to governing the planet.
You follow my orders and do all the work, and I'll do the planning and
thinking."

These might not have been his exact words, but that was what he said.
I was mad enough to want to sock him right there. But I knew that we
might get rescued someday and he could throw his weight around almost
anywhere. The only time I had the authority to shove Clive Littlebrook
around was when he was a passenger on my spaceship, which he certainly
wasn't now.

"The first thing to do will be to find shelter, food and water," he
said.

"Don't be silly," I said, "we've got all those things on our spaceship."

"We don't know how long we'll be here," said Clive. "Since the supplies
on our ship are limited, we must try to be self-supporting."

I've always liked that fable about the oak and the willow trees. One
was big and strong, the other wasn't, but the willow tree lasted
longest because it bent and swayed before the wind. So with Senator
Clive Littlebrook, I made like a willow tree. I humored him.

       *       *       *       *       *

I started out to explore the spot where our ship landed. A couple of
miles away were some rolling hills, covered with trees. Since we had
seen a number of small animals, I figured there would be game there,
probably water too.

Clive came with me, not to explore, but because he couldn't order me
around at long distance and there's nothing worse to a politician than
not being able to do any politicking. I was stuck with him.

We hit a jackpot. Not only was there a clear stream running through
a valley in the hills, but there was an abundance of small game. And
there was a ruined city.

Sometime in the past, this planet had been inhabited. Then something
happened. Epidemic, war, famine, drought or something we didn't know
about had wiped out the intelligent life to a man. This had happened so
long ago that even the bones had turned to dust. But the shell of his
cities remained.

"Too bad," said Clive, "this is going to make your task more difficult."

"Why?"

"You'll have the added duties of being the police force, the sanitary
commission and the city council," he said.

"But there's no need for those things," I protested. "There's nobody
to govern."

"You will also have to be the populace."

I could see that I was going to have the splittingest personality in
the galaxy.

"We'll also have to establish a monetary system," Clive went on.
"Unless there's trade, our city will perish."

"That's one thing we don't have to do," I said. We had been standing in
the stone framework of a building and I had kicked a pile of dust with
the toe of my boot. Under the dust was a mound of square, flat objects
of gold. Coins.

"We've already got money."

Clive pounced on them. "My word," he explained. "We're wealthy!"

"Nuts," I said. "What can you buy with it?"

"It's gold," he said. "There may be a bank in these ruins!"

"You were talking awhile ago about food, shelter and water," I said.
"We've got the shelter and water, but we still got to have food, unless
we want those little rabbits for a steady diet." The animals weren't
rabbits, but they were about rabbit-size.

"We've got to have economics," said Clive. "I'll pay you for all the
food you bring in, and you can buy your food from me."

It sounded crazy, but I made like a willow again.

In order for him to have enough money to pay me to work, I had to find
a bank. A good candidate seemed to be a building larger than the others
that nestled against a hillside, surrounded by trees. It had a facade
supported by fluted columns and it was in pretty good shape since the
hill probably sheltered it from a lot of the weather that had taken
such a toll from the other buildings.

With Clive at my heels, I went inside. It was light, since the roof had
rotted away. It was a temple with a hollow square sacrificial altar in
the center of a large hall. And it was better than a bank.

Scattered everywhere were gold coins, such as we had already found. In
addition there were bars of blackened silver, glass jugs filled with
precious stones, solid gold candlesticks, ornaments and jewelry.

"You will be well paid, my subject," said Clive. "People of every
planet in the universe will envy the people of this planet."

"What's the name of our planet, by the way?" I asked.

The answer came in a different voice: "Up to now it's been Lonesome."

       *       *       *       *       *

I had my hands full of coins, but as I heard the voice they slipped out
of my fingers and fell to the stone floor with a clanking sound. I
wheeled around and in the red sunlight that streamed through the broken
roof, I saw a human figure. A woman.

At first I thought she was smiling, and then I saw that her lips were
grim and tense. What made her look more formidable than anything was
what she held in her hand. A large-size, old fashioned thirty-eight on
a forty-five frame.

She wasn't the ghost of a vanished race. She was real, from the top of
her wavy, black hair, to the crude hand-made sandals on her feet. Her
eyes were soft and brown, but they glinted like the flash of polished
steel. Her figure was well proportioned and graceful in its curves, but
there was no mistaking hardened muscles. Her clothing, which included
shorts and a sack-like blouse, seemed to have been woven from grass
fibers, and animal skins.

I got tired of trying to watch the gun and her curves at the same time,
so I forgot about the gun, since she wasn't pulling the trigger.

"Yes," she said, "it used to be Lonesome, but now it looks like we'll
have to call it the Problem Planet."

"Good heavens," said Dave. "A fifty-percent increase in population!"

"Let's not talk about increasing the population just yet," said the
girl. "Let's get acquainted." She smiled and it made her look lots
nicer than when she was grim. She spoke to me. "Drop your pistol
holster on the floor and then frisk your friend."

I'd been so used to acting like a willow that it was no trouble at all
to obey. Besides, I figured it was only custom that made a king outrank
a queen. On a new planet a little change might work wonders.

"My name's Rosemary," she said, when I had finished. "This is my planet
and you're trespassing."

"Fiddlesticks," said Clive. "This is not your planet. I'll admit you
might have squatter's rights on a limited portion of it, but you can't
possibly claim it all."

"Here's my deed," she said, waving the gun. "Who are you?"

"He's Senator Clive Littlebrook," I explained. "I'm Dave Camptain, a
space pilot."

"I'm also the supreme court on this planet," said Clive, "and I'm
handing down a decision right now. Your claim to the whole planet is
invalid." While Rosemary looked as if she wanted to pull the trigger,
he turned to me. "You're the clerk of the court, so write down my
decision: State vs. Rosemary--uh, what's your last name, my dear?"

"None of your business," said Rosemary.

"Oh well," said Clive. "Adam and Eve didn't have last names, and until
the population is heavier, we won't need last names here."

"Here it's going to be Eve and Adam--if things progress that far," said
Rosemary.

"My dear," said Clive, "you must realize that you belong to the
minority party. It will give us a chance to practice democracy in its
simplest form. The first thing we'll vote on is disarmament. All in
favor, say Aye!"

"Aye!" I said.

"All opposed, signify by the usual sign."

"No!" said Rosemary.

"I shall have to cast the deciding vote," said Clive. "In view of
peaceful relations, I shall have to vote Aye." He smiled and extended
his hand. "Give me the gun, my dear."

"No," said Rosemary.

"My dear, you are establishing a bad precedent. Your stand may lead to
war later on. You wouldn't want the blood of millions to be on your
head?"

"I don't want my blood to be on yours either," said Rosemary.

Clive turned to me. "Dave, as chief of the police, it is your duty to
disarm the woman. She is violating the law by possessing firearms."

"We won't harm you, Rosemary," I said. I could see her point of view,
but on the other hand nobody likes to have a gun pointed at him.

"No," said Rosemary.

"Listen to reason," I said. "There are two of us and only one of you.
Sooner or later you're going to have to sleep, while we can take turns
sleeping. You can't keep that gun pointed at us forever. So you might
as well be a good sport."

"Uh-uh," said Rosemary.

"My dear," said Clive, "you are an earthling, certainly your instincts
must be for the democratic way of life. A gun speaks of tyranny."

It wasn't hard to figure she was an earthling. She spoke perfect
English and a thirty-eight on a forty-five frame isn't found on other
planets, unless earthmen brought them there. While I was curious about
her origin, I figured that at the moment there were more important
problems to solve.

This one looked near solution. As I recovered from my initial shock of
seeing a beautiful girl pointing a gun at me, I noticed the gun more
than I did at first. There were unmistakable signs of rust, and a rusty
gun is often more dangerous to the shooter than to the shootee. It was
so rusty, in fact, that I doubted if it would fire.

So I simply stepped forward and grabbed it.

       *       *       *       *       *

She seemed to have been waiting for this move. No sooner had I jerked
the gun out of her hand, than she seized my wrists, turned, and pulled
me over her shoulder in a snap mare. The next thing I knew, I had
landed in a heap.

"Want to try two falls out of three?" she asked.

"No thanks," I said. I got up and examined my bruises.

"As long as Rosemary is disarmed," said Clive, "we'll go ahead with our
plans for a democracy. The first step is a free election. I'll nominate
myself for president and general manager of the planet."

"I'll nominate--" Rosemary began.

"Sorry," said Clive, "nominations are closed. Since there is no
opposition, I'll move and second that I'm elected unanimously. May I
congratulate you on your wisdom, since I'm the only one of our group
who has had political experience."

"Hey," I said, "aren't you pushing this thing a little fast?"

"It is necessary to establish a civilized government quickly," said
Clive. "And I assure you, I'll be bi-partisan in my government.
I'll appoint you, Dave, as secretary of state, and you, Rosemary, as
secretary of--hmm, let's see--how about secretary of labor?"

"No," said Rosemary.

Clive didn't seem to be upset. "Well, we must expect opposition from
the minority party. It's your privilege to refuse the nomination."

"Comes the revolution," said Rosemary.

"I was hoping we'd have no subversion," said Clive, "but if there is,
it will be dealt with promptly." He turned to me. "Now I think we'd
better go about checking our national resources." He leaned over and
picked up a handful of gold coins and stuffed them into his pocket.
Then he helped himself to some diamonds, emeralds and rubies.

Rosemary turned on her heel and walked toward the door. When she
reached it, she turned a moment: "When you get hungry, or need me, I'll
be around." Then she was gone.

"That reminds me," said Clive. "We'd better look for food."

He stooped and picked his gun off the floor.

"Uh-uh," I said. "You ruled against armament."

Clive hesitated. "But we should protect ourselves against wild
animals."

"Rosemary has been living here for quite a while," I said. "She
admitted her gun was useless, so I don't think there are any dangerous
animals. And I'm certainly not going to let her laugh at me by carrying
a gun to protect myself from her, even--even if she is a lady wrestler."

Clive nodded. "I see your point. But if we leave the guns here, she may
get them."

"I'll take care of that." I picked up both weapons and hunted till I
found what probably had been a well. I dropped them into it, albeit
with misgivings. Still, a woman's laughter is something that masculine
pride would rather die than face. Women do laugh at men, but they do it
politely, or where men can't hear them. Maybe Rosemary was laughing now.

Without the guns, though, we had a more difficult food problem. We
would have to trap animals, or depend on fish, if fish existed in the
stream that ran through the ruined city. And there were.

I sharpened a couple of sticks with my knife and we tried spearing
fish. We decided that it would take a lot of skill, and probably days
of practice. We'd have to weave some nets, and this would take time
too. I was about to suggest that we go back to the spaceship and live
on what we had, when Clive found a clam.

It was different from the terrestrial clam, in that it was almost
egg-shaped, but there was no mistaking what it was. Presently Clive had
dug up quite a pile of them from the stream and I had a little fire
glowing under some stones. On top of the stones, I piled wet moss to
steam the clams and I was just about ready to have a clam bake, when
Clive started to groan.

"What's the matter?" I asked.

"I ate a clam," he said. "Raw. It-it's poisoning me!"

Presently he was lying on the ground, writhing.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was trying to stick my fingers down his throat when Rosemary
appeared. "He won't die," she said. "But I wouldn't advise eating those
clams. Nearly all of the fish are poisonous. He'll be all right in a
few minutes."

"What are we going to eat?" I asked. "Not that we're starving, but the
supply of food on our spaceship won't last forever."

"I have a garden," said Rosemary, "and I've domesticated some
livestock."

"My--uh--dear," said Clive, between groans. "I appoint you Secretary of
Agriculture."

"Let's get some things straight," said Rosemary. "This planet is not
going to be like the earth."

"But a democracy, my dear--"

"Okay, it's a democracy. I'm not opposed to freedom of government, but
there are a lot of things outside government that need changing. Back
on earth, man is the dominant sex. On this planet, woman will be."

"But there are two men, only one woman," Clive said. He was breathing a
little easier now and I judged he was recovering.

"All the more reason why woman should be dominant," said Rosemary. "I'm
more valuable."

"We're stronger. Women must have men to protect them."

"Any time you want to test your theory that you're stronger than I am,
I'm willing," said Rosemary. And she looked perfectly able to take care
of herself. I didn't know then how long she had been on the planet,
but she was hard as a rock. She'd taken care of herself in all kinds
of weather, done everything a man could do in fighting against nature.
Being a spaceman is no way to develop your biceps and neither is being
a senator.

"Hmm," said Clive. "Perhaps there should be more equality between
the sexes. But most of the things that women misinterpret are not
discrimination, but adoration."

"I don't care what it was," said Rosemary, "and I didn't say anything
about equality. Starting tomorrow, you boys will do what I tell you
to."

"But I'm the President!" Clive protested.

"And I'm the boss," said Rosemary.

       *       *       *       *       *

We fixed up some of the better preserved buildings into houses.

We made tools out of sticks, stones, gold and silver. We trapped
animals and domesticated them and we planted gardens and wove clothing
out of grass and fur.

Rosemary showed us how to do most of the things and then left us to do
them while she explored the ruins and dug up items that told how the
vanished race lived.

"They were humanoid," she told us once. "I found a frieze that pictured
the inhabitants. While the art was primitive, it was easy to see that
they were a great deal like men. Probably their civilization would
compare favorably with that of Rome in Caesar's time, although I
haven't found much bronze. Probably they had iron which has rusted
away. I still haven't found what killed them, but for that matter no
one really knows what killed the dinosaur. It's probably due to the
fact that there's a critical point in the development of any species,
when that point is reached, the species dies."

"But man went farther on earth than here," I said.

"Sure, because the critical point on the earth is higher than on
Problem planet." She paused, and added: "At least that's what my father
thought."

"Your father?"

"Yes. He was an astro-archeologist," she explained. "He brought me here
when I was a little girl, only twelve years old, and he died here. I've
lived alone in this ruined city ever since."

"Didn't he have a spaceship?"

"Sure. But I didn't know how to run it."

"You mean it's still here? Can it operate?"

"I suppose so. I don't know anything about spaceships."

I almost yelled. "Why didn't you say so? We could have been on our way
to civilization long ago!"

She nodded toward Clive. "He's so happy here, being the President of
Everything."

"Good heavens, girl!" I said, "Clive's a politician. He's got to have
people. A whole planetful of people to really be happy. Right now
he's--"

I stopped. Rosemary had tears in her eyes.

Clive had been busy grinding some nuts into a sort of flour and when he
noticed Rosemary wiping her eyes, he rose and came over to where I'd
been weaving while I talked to her.

"What's the matter?" he asked.

I decided to break the news by easy stages. "Supposing we had a way to
get off this planet. To go to the earth, or III Arcturus, or somewhere
we could live like human beings again. Wouldn't you want to go?"

Clive laughed. "I've never had so much fun in my life," he said. "Here
I'm everything I wanted to be. I've got a nice political boss, and I'm
the chief executive of a whole planet. I'm also the Supreme Court and
one third of the voters. I've got more wealth than a nabob, and no
pressing appointments with people I don't like."

Rosemary looked up at him.

"You like me?"

"Certainly," Clive said. "Woman has always been the dominant sex--the
stronger sex if you like. On earth she invented the idea that man
was the Big Shot, but that was to keep men from being discontented.
Equality of the sexes always has been a myth, but I didn't realize it
until civilization was reduced to its simplest form."

"What about you, Dave?" Rosemary asked.

"Personally, I like life on easier terms," I said. "Not that it isn't
pleasant here, but we have to work so hard. And we've been lucky not
to have had any real sickness, except for the time Clive ate a clam
and that wasn't serious. But sooner or later we're going to need the
science of medicine. And if we don't need that, we're going to have to
have something else that civilization has and we haven't. Furthermore,
man is a gregarious animal. He may kid himself about how nice it would
be to live on a desert island, but no matter how anti-social he is, he
doesn't feel right without others around him. Even if it's only to be
disagreeable with them."

"Isn't civilization a lot like the gold and precious stones in the
temple?" asked Clive. "The stuff is no good unless we need it."

"But it's wrong to have useful things and not use them," I said. "It's
miserly."

"Okay," said Clive. "But we have no other choice."

"But we have," Rosemary broke in. "I just told Dave that I have a
spaceship. You can go away if you wish, or stay. It's up to you. I
didn't tell you before, because I hadn't made up my own mind. Now I
have."

"It's my mind that has to be made up," I said. "I'm the only one of
us who can pilot a spaceship. No matter what you want to do, I've got
quite a say in the matter."

       *       *       *       *       *

Clive sat down on the ground beside me. "So you're the most important
one. You're the king for a day. If we want to go back to civilization,
you're the only one who can take us."

"Right," I said. "When we landed, you were top man because you were
a big wheel. Right away Rosemary took the sceptre because she was a
woman, and women are scarce. Now I'm President of Everything."

"It's a democracy," said Rosemary. "We'll vote on it."

"In view of the importance of the occasion, we should have a debate
first," said Clive.

"You first, Dave," said Rosemary.

"Okay," I said. "We've shared everything and since you've both probably
guessed it anyhow, I'll admit that I'm in love with Rosemary. She
hasn't given me the chance to tell her alone, so I'll tell the world.
Here I've got a 50-50 chance of getting her, maybe better, because
I'm nearer her own age. But away from here the odds go down. I'll go
if Rosemary goes, and if she'll have me. Otherwise, we'll stay. Maybe
Clive and I will have to fight for you, Rosemary."

"You next, Clive," said Rosemary.

"If Rosemary goes with you, Dave," said Clive, "we'll fight. We're
about evenly matched. Perhaps you're a little younger, but I'm still in
my prime and I've got experience. If Rosemary stays with me, and lets
you go away, there'll be no fight. In either event, it looks like I'm
stuck here, because I can't imagine you taking Rosemary and I back to
civilization if you lost her."

I looked at Rosemary. "Your vote," I said.

"You see, Dave," she said, "I'm still the most important person on this
planet. I can have almost anything happen, just by the decision I make."

"What is your decision?" asked Clive.

She looked at me, then at Clive. "You started out playing politics,"
she said, "and it all comes back to the same old thing. Man and woman.
Maybe that's politics, because nations are based on the family. But
we have proved one thing anyhow. Even in a civilization of only three
people, each one has his moments of supremacy. And there must always be
compromise, or bloodshed. If we stay, the compromise must be polyandry.
I must accept both of you as mates. If we go, one of you must be
compensated for losing me. Supposing one takes all the gold we can
carry away, the other takes me?"

"If Clive will take the gold," I said.

"If Dave will take the gold," said Clive.

"See?" she smiled. "Gold isn't the most important thing in the world.
I'm much more valuable than all the gold you can ever use."

"There must be other women in the galaxy that Dave can console himself
with," Clive said. "That gold would certainly help him find her."

"I was just about to suggest the same thing, pertaining to you," I
said. "But as far as I'm concerned, Rosemary is my choice. She doesn't
care whether I'm wealthy or not."

"There must be a solution to this problem," Clive said.

"There is," said Rosemary.

Clive rose to his feet and I did too. Rosemary didn't seem to expect
this and she was late getting up.

"In politics," said Clive, "it is known as the coup d'etat."

He swung and I swung. Then we both swung while Rosemary screamed.
Suddenly everything got black.

When I woke up, I thought I had underestimated Clive, but I saw him
sleeping peacefully and I also observed he had a lump on his head, like
I had. Rosemary was sitting on a chunk of marble watching us, holding a
small stout club in her hand.

"As soon as you feel strong enough," she said, "you can start loading
gold onto my spaceship. It's over in the next valley. We're all going
back to civilization. The wars there are more impersonal."

"You've made your choice?" I asked.

"I have," she said, "but to avoid bloodshed, I'll not reveal it till we
get home--unless one of you figures it out."

"What happens then?"

"The loser gets locked up or placed under guard. I don't think,
if you're the loser you'd do anything silly, like cracking up the
spaceship. After all, there'll be a fortune in gold and consolation
with another girl. I'm sure there is another girl in the universe."

At the time, though I didn't think there was.

       *       *       *       *       *

When we landed on Earth, we divided the spoils three ways because
Rosemary decided not to take either of us.

"Neither of you asked me to choose between you," she said, "and that
was the way to decide. You should have said: 'Take one of us and
the other will abide by your decision.' That is what is known as
compromise, even if it doesn't seem that way. The trouble with men is
that few of them can lose gracefully. They've got to start a war rather
than a compromise."

"But losing isn't compromising," I pointed out. "If you give up
something and gain something, that's a compromise."

"How do you know you haven't gained by losing me," she said.

I often wonder which of us she preferred back on Problem Planet. But
considering the fact that we were probably the first men she got to
know after her father died, I think she made a wise choice. Clive
married a woman lawyer, and I married a chorus girl.

Rosemary? She married a wrestler that could throw her.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PROBLEM PLANET ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
