The Project Gutenberg eBook of Secret of the Martians, by Paul W.
Fairman

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Secret of the Martians

Author: Paul W. Fairman

Release Date: April 12, 2022 [eBook #66798]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SECRET OF THE MARTIANS ***





               Few colonists had seen a Martian, so why
             worry about them causing trouble? Yet Spencer
            had been killed--and Rex Tate trapped by the--

                        Secret Of The Martians

                          By Paul W. Fairman

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                             February 1956
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Gordon Malloy, Chief of Interplanetary Security, rocked back in his
chair, and with seeming unconcern looked Rex Tate over searchingly.
"How was Pluto?"

"Stinking. Why we want that frozen lump in the Federation is something
I can't figure."

"Rich in minerals."

"You left me there for seven Terran months," Rex allowed criticism to
sound in his voice.

This did not bother Malloy. "Good for you. Toughened you up. Safe too.
Never much trouble on Pluto."

"That's why I joined up. So I'd be nice and safe."

"I've got something in mind for you."

"Where?"

"Mars. But it could be nasty so you'd better go back to Pluto."

"Try and get me on a ship. What's with Mars?"

Malloy looked for a place to put his feet and found only the top of his
desk. Up there they looked like a pair of crossed banjo cases.

"I wish I knew."

"I'll go find out for you."

Malloy's eyes brooded. "The thing started as a result of privileges
and stupidity, the way most things of this sort do. As you know, Mars
is the only planet in the Federation without representation because
the Martians refused to represent themselves. They wanted no part of
the alliance." Malloy glanced up quickly. "How's your knowledge of the
Martian background?"

"Sketchy. Ask me about Venus, Mercury, Neptune, Pluto. By all means
ask me about Pluto."

"We're talking about Mars. When we went up there in 2091, we found as
close to a dead planet as you could want. There were people, but damned
funny ones. They wouldn't fight us or they wouldn't join us. They had a
kind of pride we've never been able to analyze. They just kept backing
away.

"We found rich minerals and fine farm land--land that had lain fallow
for ages just waiting for the plow. And plenty of water. Every spring,
the ice cliffs at the poles melted on schedule and sent down the
moisture for bumper crops.

"But the Martians didn't farm--they didn't mine--they didn't do
anything so far as we could discover except back away into their caves
and rocky fastnesses up north and give us the cold eye."

Rex knew all this but he liked to hear The Chief talk--liked to be
with him as did every other agent in the Gang, so he registered bright
interest and listened.

"They rebuffed all our advances and so we let them alone."

"But that happened on other planets too," Rex said innocently, "and so
we went right in and got acquainted--looked in their bedrooms and their
dresser drawers."

Malloy frowned slightly. "But on Mars, we didn't."

"Nope. I wonder if it could have been because we had their land and
their mines and didn't think they had anything of value around their
north pole?"

"You're speaking disrespectfully of the System," Malloy said in mild
disapproval. "You sound as though you think we moved in and took
planets over. All we did was develop latent resources--"

"--Make for the better life--"

"--Invite them to join us for a greater System--"

"--The same way the British and the Dutch and the French and the
Russians did in ancient times here on Terra."

       *       *       *       *       *

Malloy regarded his big feet with hostility; as though they and not Rex
Tate had been speaking. "Do you want this assignment, or don't you?"

"Sure I want it." Rex grinned. What other department chief would let a
subordinate sound off? None except Malloy. That was one of the things
that made up for the low pay.

"All right--then shut your trap and listen. As I said, the Martians
backed off into those hills and caves and hung out a _Private_ sign
that we respected for three hundred years. Then, about six months ago,
a Martologist named Spencer got tired of testing flora and fauna in the
safe areas and wangled a permit to penetrate the taboo areas around
the pole."

Rex Tate straightened--honestly amazed. "Alone?"

"No. In the company of his twenty-year-old daughter."

"Good God! Why we wouldn't even send a nuclear battalion in there! Who
issued such an insane permit?"

"That's not our business. The criminally stupid ass is being hunted
from other directions, but in this age of red tape and buck-passing I
doubt if he'll ever be found. Our job lies elsewhere. We've got to find
out what happened to Spencer's daughter."

"What about Spencer?"

"He came back."

"Without his daughter?"

"Yes."

"I'd like to talk to the slob for a few minutes."

Malloy dropped his feet to the floor. "Come on. I'll give you a chance."

Rex followed Malloy out of the office. They got on an elevator that
dropped them to a sub-basement. Malloy manned a scooter and they rode
for several minutes down a long, straight corridor.

Just when Rex wondered whether or not The Chief knew where he was
going, Malloy stopped the scooter in front of a closed door. He opened
the door and motioned Rex inside.

The room was small and bare, boasting as furniture, only a rectangular
table in its center. On the table sat a rectangular box. Malloy pointed
into the box and said, "All right--start talking."

A small chill danced down Rex's spine. In the box lay a serene-faced,
middle-aged man with his hands folded over his chest. He had a rosy
complexion and appeared to be napping. What an odd place for a man to
sleep, Rex thought. He glanced up at Malloy. The latter said, "As near
as we can tell, he's been dead for four months."

"But--"

"I know. Perfectly preserved--the skin soft--all normal fluid still
present in the body. Nothing's wrong with him except that he's dead."

Rex touched the soft tissue. It was cool. "How can you figure the time?"

"He came in on a food freighter--in a cargo of potatoes that was sent
from a farmer's market at a place called New Iowa in the heart of the
Martian farm belt."

"Not far from the forbidden polar circle," Rex said.

"I thought you didn't know anything about Mars."

"When things were dull on Pluto, I studied timetables."

"That's interesting. I'll issue them to all agents."

"Of course you've got no proof that the body was put aboard at Iowa."

"Yes we have. The hold was locked and sealed there. The body was
inside. The seal was unbroken."

The closed eyes of Professor Spencer made Rex almost as uncomfortable
as the closed lips. "All right. I've got the picture. What do we do?
Send in a battalion to question the Martian taste in gift packages?"

"We've got no proof the Martians did this."

"Who else?"

"Maybe some transplanted Terran farmer took up taxidermy on the side."

"The odds are way against it."

"So are the odds against a solar eclipse, but they happen."

"Then we make no hostile gestures?"

"Not until we know the score. That's what I want you to do, Rex--go out
to Mars and find the score."

"Okay, Chief." Rex took a last look at the body. "And if I come back in
that shape, check my pockets. There might be time to write a note."

"Don't be such a pessimist," Malloy growled.

       *       *       *       *       *

(_From the diary of Tommy Wilks_)

_The first thing you miss on Mars is the green. The things hardest to
get used to are the reds and the yellows and the tired browns. Never is
there any bright rich green filled with the promise of spring as I grew
used to in Kentucky back on Terra. Because this is a dying planet and
even when the Martian spring does come, there is a feeling of tiredness
in the air._

_And the warm rain on your face. You miss that too because there is no
rain on Mars. You keep looking at the sky, hunting for the big black
thunderheads that sent people running for cover back in Kentucky. You
look and look until your eyes ache and even the sting of icy cold rain
would be nice._

_The water here is all underground and in the canals. It is good water,
running down through the bogs and the rivers and the marshes in spring
when the big northern ice cliffs melt._

_It is very funny about the ice cliffs. Up there it snows in the
winter I guess because they get higher and higher until they are like
mountains. Then in spring, they melt in a few days. Nobody knows much
about the ice mountains because they are in the middle of the forbidden
polar zone. It is said there are Martian people up in the forbidden
circle but I don't think so. Because why would anybody live in such a
place when the level lands and the old sea bottoms and the canals are
down here!_

_Anyhow, we never go there. The only Martians I ever saw are the ones
that come by like tramps asking for food. We always give it to them
because they are always hungry and we don't want any trouble. And
then there is Barzoo. He was here when we came. He lives in a little
stone house out beyond the potato fields. All Martians have hard brown
skins--almost like shells--and instead of white in their eyes, like
Terrans, they have light green, and the pupils are always jet black.
Looking at a Martian is a little hard to get used to at first but after
a while it's all right._

_Dad and Mom made me stay away from Barzoo at first, but he was
harmless and now they let me visit him. We talk but I can only
understand a little of what he says and he can't understand much
Terran. He is a funny man, Barzoo. He never smiles and gives you the
idea he has only contempt for Terrans. But he takes me and shows me
where the big gadfish hide in holes in the canals and how to catch them
with a white pebble on the end of a line._

_Nobody minds Barzoo._

_I am Thomas Wilks Junior, but everybody calls me Tommy. I am fifteen
years old and I like to write and someday I will go to Terra to some
big university and learn to do it well and then I will write stories
all about Mars for the Terrans to read._

_My father is Thomas Wilks Senior. My mother is Lucy Wilks. My
sister is Jean Wilks. Father brought us to Mars when the Federation
opened this land. It is very easy to grow good crops here--very big
potatoes--because Dad says ages ago it was farmed by the Martians and
the fields and the canals are all here. We put the potatoes on big
space freighters that take them back to Terra. All the farmers send
their potatoes in the big freighters and they all talk about going back
themselves after they get rich out here but I have a feeling very few
of them will go. There is something about this planet that grows on
you. It's awfully cold a lot of the time and you have to learn to walk
carefully or you go right up in the air. But you get used to it. And
two moons instead of one._

_I like keeping a diary because someday I will need what I'm writing
now for my stories about Mars and will become very famous and live in
a high tower in Kentucky. Or maybe I will build a tower right here on
Mars._

       *       *       *       *       *

(_Wednesday_)

_We have a new man working for us. He came in on the last freighter. He
is very tall and has yellow hair and he is different from most men that
come here to work. Most of them go to the saloon when the ship sets
down, but this one went to the candy store and that was where I met
him._

_He bought me some ice cream and we talked about Mars. I guess I did
most of the talking. I told him all about the farm and about Barzoo
and the gadfish you catch with a pebble. He seemed very interested in
Barzoo and said he'd like to meet him._

_I told him if he worked for Dad I would introduce him to Barzoo and he
said all right. Which Dad slapped me on the back for later because help
is hard to get and he gave me credit for talking the yellow haired man
into working for us._

_His name is Rex Tate and we didn't ask him how he happened to come out
here. We're just glad that he did because help is a problem._

_After this I guess the farmers will check the candy store too when
they come into Iowa along with the saloon. But who would expect to find
a grown man like Rex Tate in a candy store? He's different than the
other workers who come here. A lot more intelligent. I like to talk to
him._

       *       *       *       *       *

Rex Tate, clad in a Martian fox jacket against the sharp winter air,
worked at a strand of broken fence on the far north line of the Wilks
farm.

He straightened and looked off across the dull brown plains. The
experts said this had all been ocean once; back in the days when Terra
was a seething, untenanted ball of hot lava. Rex wondered how right
they were.

One thing was sure. A no more dull, drab, peaceful landscape could
possibly be imagined. He turned to look northward toward the high ice
cliffs of the polar circle. The thin air made distances deceptive and
the cliffs looked to be hanging almost over Rex's head. But he knew
they were many miles away.

He frowned. This had seemed the logical place to start his
investigation, yet what evil could lurk among these simple energetic
Terrans? Such an act as had been perpetrated upon Professor Spencer
was certainly beyond their ability to conceive, and Margo Spencer was
certainly not hidden among them.

Only one thing kept him in this vicinity and it was indeed a frail
thread. The Martian hermit young Wilks had told him about. He wanted to
look the man over but had delayed, feeling that even though the lead
seemed hardly to be taken seriously, caution was still the better part
of wisdom.

Rex turned now to watch big Tom Wilks stride across the frozen brown
moss of the pasture. Terran cattle, Rex had learned, thrived on the
prickly stuff.

Tom Wilks had a big, cordial face, roughened and seamed by the Martian
cold. He slapped Rex on the shoulder and said, "Well, how do you like
this outpost of civilization?"

"It's different--I'll say that."

"Hope you grow to like it. A man can get rich out here."

"I don't doubt it."

"You aren't like the others," Wilks said.

"Thank you."

"I mean most of the help we get out here are drifters looking for a
stake. You could easy get yourself some land--make a go of it. We need
good solid men out here. Now I've got a fine looking daughter--" Wilks
paused. "Guess maybe I'm going too fast."

"Jean's a fine girl, but you don't know much about me, Mr. Wilks."

"The name's Tom and don't forget it. And don't think I'm going to nose
into your business until you're ready to tell us. We're inclined to
take people at face-value. We consider 'em first-rate until they prove
otherwise. You might say we kind of follow our instincts."

Rex give him a quick smile. "One thing puzzles me."

"What's that?"

"How come there are no Martians working for you? The pay is good. I'd
think they'd be swarming around."

"You don't know much about Mars, son. I've got a hunch there aren't
many Martians."

When Rex started to reply, Tom Wilks waved a hand. "Oh, I know the
Federation experts tell us different--say they live up there under the
ice cap, but I don't believe it. A few of them would wander down."

"Young Tommy tells me you've got one around. A character named Barzoo."

"Uh-huh. God knows where he came from or what he wants here. Doesn't
care to work a lick."

This, Rex realized, was Tom Wilks' basis of judging a man. A worker
rated high with him. A fairly presentable worker rated high enough to
be considered for his daughter's hand. Not a bad way to look at it at
that, Rex thought.

"I'd like to meet this Barzoo."

"Tommy'll take you out there any time you say."

"He goes alone?"

"The old coot's harmless. Looked him over myself. He takes the
youngster fishing."

"Characters like that interest me."

"Well, finish this fence now and then get back to the house. Jean's
fixed up something a little special for supper. Got her hair and face
all shined up too. I wonder why?"

Wilks winked and strode off about his business, leaving Rex to wonder
about Jean. He'd have to be a little careful there. She was a nice
kid. There'd be no problem, though, because he wouldn't be around long
enough. He hooked the last strand of wire into place and headed for the
house....

       *       *       *       *       *

Jean Wilks was a lithe, slim, dark-haired girl with laughing blue eyes
and red, almost sensuous lips. When Rex got to the house she was there
to open the door. She wore a close-fitting blouse, slacks, and a frilly
postage-stamp apron. There was welcome in her smile and her eyes spoke
quite frankly. They said, _I'm after you_.

"Come on in and shuck your coat," Jean said. "I'll bet you're frozen."

"Only my fingers."

Jean took his hand in hers and rubbed briskly. Her eyes teased. "I
thought you were too hot-blooded to let a little cold snap chill you."

"I'm used to a hot sun."

She could change mood quickly. Her smile slipped away. "Where _did_ you
come from, Rex?"

As he hesitated she put a quick finger over his lips. "Don't tell me.
Sorry I pried. We aren't that way here on Mars--really." She moved away
from him. "How do you like my apron! It's supposed to show you how
domestic I am."

"You did the cooking tonight?"

"Uh-huh. Mom and Dad and Tommy just left. They went to New Iowa for
dinner with some friends. I'm in charge of the feed bag."

"Swell--let's open it up."

Supper over, Rex helped Jean with the dishes. He was struck by the
domestic situation into which this case had brought him. He felt
guilty--as though he were trespassing on the hospitality of these fine
people. And fine people they were--of that he was assured. Now only
remained to discover by what weird turn of circumstances the perfectly
preserved body of Professor Spencer had been placed in a sealed potato
hold in New Iowa.

"The ships that go out of here," Rex said. "Do they all set down in New
Iowa--on the field there?"

They were having coffee in the living room. Jean had removed her apron
and sat close to Rex on the lounge. Her hair was soft and gleaming in
the light of the open flame from the old-fashioned fireplace.

"Usually," she said, "except during heavy harvest time. Then they put
down wherever they can. We've had them parked in our lower pasture. You
see we like to get the crops away as quick as we can and the freight
company always sends enough ships to accommodate us because the run is
so profitable."

"The lower pasture. Isn't that where this Barzoo fellow hangs out?"

Jean shuddered. "He's awful. I suppose I shouldn't feel this way about
him because he's harmless and very good to Tommy. But that dull brown
hide--his funny eyes."

"I'd like to see what he looks like. I'll have to ask Tommy to take me
down there."

Jean regarded him thoughtfully. "I'll take you down."

"But why should you--?"

She shrugged. "I don't seem to be doing very well by firelight. We have
two moons up here. They should be twice as hard to resist as one."

Rex was playing it straight all the way through--which meant playing it
dumb. "But it's very cold out."

"Pretty cold in here, too. Let's get started."

       *       *       *       *       *

Rex put on his jacket, wondering what he was going to do with this
girl. She appeared from her bedroom wearing a white parka that made her
look doubly attractive. "It's only a ten-minute walk. And the cold
isn't as penetrating here as on Terra."

They hiked along, hand-in-hand, under the two racing Martian moons.
The air was sharp, stinging, like heady wine. Rex felt as though he
could have jumped clear up to where Terra hung close and beautiful in
the night sky. This, he decided, was a wonderful planet, a wonderful
country, a great place to settle down and build something--raise
children. Bodies in shipping cases seemed far away and unreal.

Jean's hand, warm in his own, squeezed suddenly as though she sensed
his thoughts. She glanced at him, her eyes rich with meaning. Then she
broke away and ran on ahead toward an oddly shaped monolith of a hut
further down the pasture.

As Rex hurried forward, he studied the stone hutch. It was obviously
very old--something left over from a lost and forgotten civilization.
It impressed him as having been built as both a shelter and a symbol.
There appeared to be undecipherable meaning in the formation of
it--blurred now by the wear of centuries.

Jean stopped beside the narrow entrance. "He's not here," she said. Rex
pushed his head inside, bent forward to peer about the small interior.
It was smooth, unadorned, cone-shaped.

He took a step forward, heard a quick laugh and tripped over Jean's
extended foot. He grabbed as he went down--inside the shelter--and
caught Jean's arm. He dragged her with him and they went down in a
heap. He was looking into her fur-framed face, into her eyes. She had
stopped laughing. Neither of them spoke during several quick breaths.

Then Jean said, "I guess you think I'm pretty forward, don't you?"

"I think you're pretty wonderful."

"I think maybe we're different up here--a lot different than we'd be on
Terra."

Her breath was warm in Rex's face. "How do you figure that?"

"We're more elemental out here, I guess. We're more afraid of letting
life get past us. I want you so bad it hurts. I want to marry you and
have your children and I'm afraid of not letting you know it."

Her mouth was on his; her body through the soft fur of their clothing
was warm and rounded against him. His blood was pounding and he was
conscious of two things. First, this intoxicating girl in his arms.
Second, the fact that the slab against which he was pressed had
loosened and turned; that it had moved on a hinge of some kind and he
had to hold tight to Jean to keep from falling through.

Then he became aware of a third presence. Just outside a figure loomed;
a hideous looking man with a brown, scarred hide. A man with eyes that
seemed to hold all the hate in the universe....

       *       *       *       *       *

(From the Diary of Tommy Wilks) (_Saturday_)

_They're gone--Jean and Rex Tate. Nobody around here knows what to
think because there is no place to go. No ships have come in or gone
out. Everybody is talking about it. Some people say Rex Tate had a ship
and that he put Jean in it and took her away. But how can that be true?
Where could anybody hide a ship around here? The country is flat as far
as you can see. They say he must have had a ship hidden up in the ice
country--in the forbidden circle and he took her up there._

_But that is crazy too. They were having supper here last night when
Mom and Dad and I went to the Parker's for supper. They weren't here
when we got back and none of the cars or horses are gone so how could
they have got away?_

_They say he took Jean away, but I wonder if it wasn't the other way
around? Jean was in love with him--she wanted to marry him--and I
wonder if maybe she didn't take HIM away? But that's foolish, too.
There was no place for her to take him or him to take her. It certainly
is a mystery. We haven't had so much excitement since we came to Mars.
People coming and going--men riding off in bunches hunting under every
piece of moss as though they'd turned to midgets and were hiding there.
It's all very silly. But Mom is sick about it. She's in bed and Mrs.
Parker is taking care of her. The men swear they'll catch Rex and kill
him wherever they find him. They say he dragged Jean away to have her
for himself. I don't think so--not for that reason, anyhow. I know how
Jean felt about him and girls in love are funny. He wouldn't have had
to drag her anywhere. That was how Jean felt about him._

_It's all very strange. And very lonesome here with Dad gone off with
the hunting party and Mom under sedatives. I'm going to ask Barzoo what
he thinks about it._

       *       *       *       *       *

(_Sunday_)

_I've learned something important and I don't know what to do about it.
I went to Barzoo's hutch to find him but he was not there. I waited
around a while and then, while I was looking inside, I thought I saw
something funny about the wall. One section of it looked different
than the others. It wasn't dirty along the bottom. It looked as though
there was a crack there. I examined it and found it moved on a hinge.
I pushed it back and everything was dark behind it. I listened for a
while and then thought I heard a sound inside as though somebody had
taken a step._

_I got scared and dropped the stone back into place and began to run.
I ran all the way home to tell Dad about it because that must be where
Rex and Jean went. There can't be any other place._

_But Dad isn't here and I can't tell Mom. She's too sick and I'd only
disturb her...._

_It's been an hour now. Dad still isn't home. I've done some thinking.
Why did I run away from the hutch? There isn't anything there to be
afraid of. When you think it over, it's logical that Barzoo would have
a place underneath the hutch to keep warm on cold winter nights. Even
if his hide is thick, he still needs shelter. And why should he have
told me about it? It's his private business and I never asked him. I'll
bet he would have told me if I'd asked him._

_I'm going to wait another half hour for Dad. Then, if he isn't back,
I'll go to the hutch with a flashlight and see what's under it. Maybe
everybody is right about Rex. Maybe he's got Jean down there._

_But if he has I'll bet she isn't trying very hard to get away...._

_The half hour's up. Here I go...._

       *       *       *       *       *

"So that's the story," Rex said. "Now you know who I am and how I
happened to come to New Iowa."

Jean twisted her arms against the thongs that bound her wrists and
said, "I think you were stupid not to tell us and let us try to help
you."

"But I was moving in the dark entirely unsure of myself. I had to look
around and find out--"

"Oh, I see. You suspected us. You thought we were capable of murdering
a man and putting his body in a box and shipping it back to Terra with
our potatoes!"

"I thought no such thing!"

They spoke openly, convinced that the five Martians who were their
captors could not understand Terran. They had been at the hutch when
Rex and Jean got there--four of them--crouched behind the wall. When
Barzoo arrived, just as Rex tilted the section of wall, they had seized
the two Terrans and tied their hands. There had been nothing Rex could
do, hampered as he was by Jean lying in his arms.

Rex's thoughts had been the bitterest of gall as he forecast his report
to The Chief--that was, if he lived long enough to submit a report:

_I was necking with a local farmer's daughter in the stone hutch of a
Martian character. I had every reason to be suspicious of this Martian
and should have been on my toes when he arrived. Instead, I was on my
back, kissing this aforementioned local daughter and this Martian and
four of his friends took us both. No credit to them, though. In the
shape we were in, a crippled blind man could have taken us. Any further
orders, Chief?_

The Martians had ignored his pleas that they leave Jean behind, or
perhaps the Martians did not even understand him.

They had been led off down a long, dark tunnel. So far as Rex and Jean
were concerned, their next step could have almost dropped them off into
oblivion but the Martians were sure-footed and seemed to be entirely
familiar with the pitch-black tunnel.

They walked for what seemed hours before a light showed in the
distance. Another hour brought them to the spot where a dusty overhead
bulb glowed dimly. It appeared to have been there untouched for
centuries because the ceiling was damp and calcium-bearing droplets
had almost covered it. Yet it glowed bravely.

Here, the two Terrans were allowed to rest. One of the Martians dug
into a small opening in one wall and brought forth a quantity of
grayish substance which he offered them--holding it toward their mouths
with his filthy hand. They turned their faces away and he made no
further effort to feed them.

They were ignored--left sitting on a ledge while the Martians gorged
down the food. Afterward, the one Jean designated as Barzoo, looked
up suddenly as though a thought had come. He talked to one who had
finished eating and was wiping his hands on his dull brown hide.

Rex tried to fathom Barzoo's words. Familiar with languages and
dialects the System over, he got some of Barzoo's meaning. The Martian
leader was worried about the condition in which the hutch floor had
been left. Perhaps the wall-section had been left tilted. After a
while, the other Martian got to his feet and trotted back through the
darkness along the tunnel through which they had come.

       *       *       *       *       *

After the Martian left, Barzoo wiped his mouth with the back of his
hand and motioned Rex and Jean to get up and move into a passage to
their right.

"How much further can he take us?" Jean asked. "After the first drop
back at the hutch, it seems to me the tunnel has been level."

"A floor can be deceptive. We could have been moving down a gradual
slope for miles."

Jean said nothing. The going was easier now, this tunnel being lighted
at intervals by the strange overhead bulbs. Rex asked, "Are you sore at
me for what happened back at the farm? For not telling you the truth?"

"No. We're in too much trouble to waste time being angry. What's done
is done. Only the future is important now."

Rex could have made his self-recrimination vocal but he felt that too
would be a waste of time. He said, "Didn't anybody--any of you Terrans
know about the opening in that hutch?"

"I'm sure no one did--except perhaps Tommy." She thought that over and
added, "No--that's absurd. If Tommy had known it he wouldn't have been
able to keep it to himself."

"Maybe they'll hunt around and find it."

"Maybe--but I hope they don't."

"Why not?"

"If they find the opening they'll come looking for us. These Martians
are hostile. Some of our men might be killed and they have wives and
families."

Jean made Rex feel ashamed of himself. "Don't worry. I'll get you out
of here."

She glanced up at him. Her chin trembled slightly as she sought to
stiffen it.

At that moment they walked into a larger tunnel. There were more
overhead bulbs here and a ribbon of narrow-gauge track stretching off
into the distance.

"A railroad!" Rex exclaimed.

"I wonder where it goes?"

"I've got a hunch we're going to find out."

One of the Martians had gone around a shoulder of the tunnel. There was
a whining sound. He returned in the driver's seat of a small rail car.
Barzoo motioned the Terrans into one of the seats. The other Martians
got in behind them. The driver pulled a throttle. The whining sound
increased and the car moved off down the tracks.

Rex listened for a time, inspected the portion of the car within range
of his eyes, then said, "I wonder what kind of power this thing uses?"

Jean did not answer. Her head had dropped to his shoulder. She was
asleep. He settled himself, forming a pocket with his body so she could
rest against him with the seat supporting her. Behind him the eyes of
the three Martians, including Barzoo, had also closed. Rex wondered if
the driver was asleep also.

The car rolled on in a monotonously straight line, mile after mile. Rex
realized he had discovered a civilization under Mars, the existence of
which was unknown on Terra. He knew that none of the authorities or
experts suspected anything so civilized as a railroad in the forbidden
polar lands. At best they thought the territory inhabited by hardy
bands of hostile, backward ice dwellers.

This was indeed a great discovery, he told himself bitterly. Of course
neither he nor Jean would live to reveal it, but they could die happy,
knowing they were great explorers.

He grew tired of excoriating himself. The passing overhead lights had a
hypnotic effect. He closed his eyes and slept....

       *       *       *       *       *

Fanton, son of Fandor of the Bantarks--last great ruling dynasty of
Mars--lay sick and dying in a foul cell under the Amphitheater of the
Gods. He was old and tired and ready to die, yet he longed for survival
because his work was not yet done.

For two centuries, Fanton had ruled as Lord of the North Hemisphere.
He had seen the great prosperity of the planet even under conditions
whereby the scientists of his father had foreseen the planet's death.
He had been there at the birth of their scientific magic.

Fandor, his father, had been a wise and gentle ruler. When the Terrans
came in their great ships, Fandor had prevailed upon the Council and
a policy of cautious retreat had been instituted. Fandor advocated
this because he knew the Martian science was no match for that of the
Terrans. Not that the wizardry of the Martian scientists was any less
great, but they had bent their efforts in peaceful directions while the
Terrans came with huge warships and no end of armament.

So the Martians, under Fandor, had retreated quietly to the north
allowing the Terrans to move onto the planet. This policy was much
despised by the young and the hot-headed who would have preferred to
meet the invader face to face and die in battle if need be. But the
majority of the Council was old and weary as was Fandor, and they
prevailed.

Then Fandor felt he had lived long enough and refused to enter the
place of Eternal Strength--greatest miracle of Martian science. He died
peacefully and Fanton put on his royal robes.

Now those robes had been torn from his body and he had been refused
access to the place of Eternal Strength. Pandek, the fiery young
Councilman had overthrown him and assumed power and the younger
Martians were preparing to sweep down over the planet and slay the
unsuspecting Terrans.

They would be slaughtered of course. This, Fanton knew, because the
Martian weapons were puny, but there would be death and fiery agony
before the Terrans finally won.

Many times, in his heart, Fanton had wondered if the policy of the old
ones had been wise. Fanton was a scholar. The books of the Terrans had
been smuggled into the north country. He had learned the language and
read the books and there was one Terran writer of whom he never tired;
a genius named William Shakespeare. In his great play called _Julius
Caesar_, Shakespeare had said: _There is a tide in the affairs of men
which taken at its flood leads on to fortune._

Lying in his filthy cell, Fanton's mind was cloudy. He was not sure if
those were the exact words but the point was clear. Perhaps there had
been a time in the affairs of the Martians when the tide of fortune
was at its flood--when they could have won out over the Terrans. But
that time had certainly long-passed and if their present plight was
the result of the old mistakes, then so be it. There was still no
justification for mass suicide.

So Fanton did not want to die. His work remained undone. Above his
cell, in the Amphitheater of the Gods, Padtek was fomenting a kettle of
hell's brew. Already, they had used the Place of Eternal Strength in a
fiendish manner--desecrated it--and now they deprived their Emperor of
its healing magic.

Fanton realized the die was cast. He himself had been removed from the
stage. Mad new actors bent upon destruction were reading their lines.

He, Fanton, was finished....

       *       *       *       *       *

Tommy Wilks walked a long way down the dark passage, his light picking
a path through the gloom. He knew he had already gone further than he
should but always there was the temptation to see what lay just ahead.

And nothing was ever there. Only the sinister black passage leading
onward. He explored another length, then stopped. This was far enough.
What if he had unknowingly turned into a by-passage? Suppose he would
miss the intersection on the way back?

Thoughts such as these flared into his mind to bring a sudden sense
of entrapment. The walls seemed to be closing in on him. He turned to
retrace his steps.

Then he froze. Sound. A far-away, echoing sound. The soft tap of
footsteps. But coming closer. Tommy threw his light on down the tunnel.
He strained his eyes ahead looking for whatever or whoever made the
sound.

It was louder now and he realized, too late, that his flash was
on--guiding the menace--serving as a beacon. He clawed at the switch
but his fingers were clumsy thumbs. When he finally got the light out,
the footsteps had increased to a running tempo. He turned and fled
blindly back along the tunnel. He had not taken ten steps when he
tripped and fell. He struggled to his feet in panic. Too late. Hard,
rough hands were upon him.

He fought but his struggles were useless....

       *       *       *       *       *

Twice, Rex had tried to maneuver the Martians into removing the thongs
from his wrists. At the end of the rail line there was a pool of water
fed by a spring. He motioned toward his wrists and signified thirst.
One of the Martians callously threw water in his face until he was
gasping for breath. His second attempt failed also and now he and Jean
were being led through a shining marble corridor the like of which he
had never seen even in the finer buildings on Terra. What manner of
world, he wondered, was hidden here under the northern Martian ice cap?

But the wonder in store made the corridor look like a tunnel clawed
through bare earth. It was a huge amphitheater into which he and
Jean were rudely shoved. They stood frozen, their perilous position
momentarily forgotten.

"Did you ever see anything like it?" Jean gasped.

"It must be an illusion of some kind. I can't believe it really exists."

The floor upon which they stood was of pure, glittering gold. It
stretched away in shining glory to a wall of crystal--a window so high
and vast Rex could not conceive it as standing alone. Surely it had to
fall by its own weight.

It dwarfed a high, curved dais along which sat a line of richly robed
Martians. In the center of the dais was an elevated throne upon which
sat a scowling young Martian.

But the thing that caught and held the two Terrans were the towering
cliffs of ice framed in the great window as by a master painter. Rex
and Jean were pushed forward. As they came near the high throne, the
young Martian smiled coldly as he noted the direction of their eyes.

He broke the silence. "You seem to admire our view."

"You speak Terran," Rex said, surprise in his words.

"A source of amazement to you, no doubt. You who consider us a mob of
imbeciles cringing up here in the ice floes."

"Whoever you are, I'm afraid you're in trouble. We aren't used to being
hauled around like criminals."

"Then it's time you got used to it."

"Who are you?"

"I am Pandek, ruler of all Martians. Down on your knees!"

Rex and Jean were hurled roughly to the floor. Rex lowered his head and
whispered to Jean, "Take it easy. We've got to feel our way and wait
this out." To Pandek, he said, "Is this the way you're in the habit of
receiving ambassadors from friendly nations?"

"Friendly? That from you who have kicked and despised us for hundreds
of years?" Pandek's rage was heightening with each word. "You and your
arrogant army of invaders? You who treated us with the patronizing
kindness you reserve for amiable dogs?"

"We came in friendship--"

"--with armed space ships at your back--uninvited--unwelcome--smiling
like the hypocrites you are!"

"Those entrusted with government on Terra would be happy to hear that
you are willing to come forth and negotiate," Rex said.

Pandek arose from his throne, his brown face mottled with rage.
"Negotiate for what is already ours? Put our stamp of approval on your
conquest of our planet?"

Rex saw that further words were useless. He stood silent until the
ruler's anger subsided. Then he asked, "What do you plan to do with us?"

"Kill you--as we will kill every Terran on our world."

       *       *       *       *       *

He eyed Rex for signs of fear. When they did not appear he seemed
mildly disappointed. When he spoke again it was in a quieter tone. "But
first I would have you see a little of what Martian science is like. I
would have you know how far ahead of the Terran bunglers our scientists
were even a thousand years ago. I would have you know by what power
Mars will again come into its own."

"I would like to see the work of your scientists." Conceit was
obviously one of this ruler's weaknesses, Rex decided. He hoped others
would reveal themselves.

"Very well, Terran. You shall see a part of the miracle concerning
which you Terrans have wondered for years; the miracle by which your
stolen lands below the polar circle have been watered and kept lush."

"The ice cliffs?"

"Yes. I cannot show you the process whereby the rains and the snows are
created and drawn to the pole each season--how these great cliffs of
ice are built over the winter months. But I can reveal to you the most
spectacular part of the process--the melting of the ice cliffs."

In spite of their predicament, Rex was vitally interested. Jean, also.
He glanced at her and saw the intent look on her face.

Pandek picked up a device at his elbow--obviously some sort of a
telephone and spoke into it. His words were low and indistinguishable.
But the results were almost instantaneous.

A far-away hum was heard, greatening in volume as from the release of
sudden power. A faint blue light appeared, glowing the ice at the base
of the cliffs. The color shot up through the ice mass--clear blue--as
new colors were added to that at the base. Red, yellow, purple,
crimson--so bright they seemed to sear Rex's eyes. Then they too
started climbing up through the solid ice.

A deep rumbling was heard. Pandek said, "Your Terran scientists have
not even begun to realize the power of nuclear fission. Two thousand
years ago our scientists were ages ahead of them."

Pandek said more, but his words were drowned in thunder from the
crashing of ice cliffs beyond the great window. Huge cataracts were
even now pouring down the walls of melting ice. Both Rex and Jean stood
awed at the sight of such vast and instantaneous destruction.

Pandek smiled his cold smile. The thunder subsided somewhat and Pandek
said, "I see you are impressed. I would welcome your comments." He was
enjoying himself.

The display had astounded Rex but the expression on his face remained
cold. "I imagine you were responsible for sending the body of Professor
Spencer back to Terra."

       *       *       *       *       *

Pandek paused at Rex's quick change of subject. "Yes, a fitting
reminder to the Terrans that we aren't animals to be gaped at."

"On the contrary--an indication that you _are_ animals."

Pandek half-rose from the throne.

"You'll die a little more horribly than I'd planned for that remark."

"Perhaps I will but the fact remains that you're mad to think you can
stand against Terra. Your scientific know-how is admittedly great, but
it is not geared for war."

"You think not?"

"I'm certain of it. I'm also sure of another thing."

"What else are you sure of?"

"That you have no scientists."

"Then how--?"

"You had them--ages ago--and they built well--so well that their work
has survived to this day. What you have here was built by geniuses for
fools to operate. I'm certain all you do is press switches and reap the
benefits of work done by long-dead brains in another age."

The darkening of Pandek's face told Rex his words had cut deep. In a
way, he felt sorry for the Martian. A hate-filled, envy-charged man
seeking to vent his rage in mad ways.

If carried to their ultimate, his acts could only lead to the
destruction of his people at the hands of the Terrans. But this made
the situation no less perilous for Rex and Jean and other Terrans on
Mars.

"You hold a Terran citizen," he said. "The daughter of Professor
Spencer. Is she still alive?"

Pandek was again enjoying himself. "Oh, very much so." His smile held
some hidden meaning as he said, "A trifle embarrassed perhaps--at the
moment--but alive and healthy."

"I demand you return her to her own people."

"You demand? I admire your courage--"

"What do you plan to do with her?"

Pandek's Martian eyes grew speculative. "She fits into my plans as
does the young woman at your side. A new day will dawn upon Mars soon,
a reversion to the old days when Mars was a virile, fighting planet.
Then, there was less science and more emotion. The masses were whipped
to a fighting frenzy by supplications to the old gods." Pandek grinned
wickedly. "Human sacrifices were a part of those supplications. Nothing
stirs the people like the public sacrifice of a beautiful female with
all its pomp and splendor. It stirs them deeply."

"The thought of it stirs _you_ deeply, you mean. You're mad. You're a
dangerous maniac. I can only hope your own people put you down in time."

With a howl of rage, Pandek leaped from his throne. He drew a short
ornamental sword from his belt and swung it viciously against the side
of Rex's head. Rex went down like an ox felled for slaughter.

Jean screamed....

       *       *       *       *       *

The rough-skinned Martian who subdued Tommy Wilks, pressed him against
the wall of the tunnel and used Tommy's own flashlight for purposes
of inspection. He growled a few unintelligible words and seemed to be
debating a problem.

Tommy watched him silently, warily, without fear. He had ceased
struggling because it was useless but his mind was alert.

He had no way of knowing the Martian was in a quandary. He had been
sent to check the tunnel entrance in the stone hutch on the Wilks farm.
But he had come upon Tommy halfway to his objective. Should he take
Tommy to his superiors, or finish his original mission? It was indeed a
problem.

The Martian was not too bright. Also, he was lazy. The capturing of
this Terran changed things, he told himself. He would take the boy to
the terminal. Then perhaps something would happen so he would not have
to take the long walk back through the tunnel. Perhaps he would be
honored for his capture and another would be sent to the hutch.

This hope brightened him as he took Tommy roughly by the arm and hauled
him toward the railhead. Tommy was not a difficult prisoner. They moved
swiftly. But the boy was breathing heavily when he was pushed into one
of the cars and the Martian took the controls.

Tommy rested, awaiting his chance. He had by no means given up hope.
It was just a matter of the Martian easing up on his arm. At least
that would be the first step. Tommy was glad the Martian had been
contemptuous and not tied him up.

The car rolled smoothly along its tracks; faster than the one used
to transport Rex and Jean because the Martian transporting Tommy had
always liked speed. He liked it so well he opened the car to its
greatest capacity and at one point had to release Tommy's arm in order
to put both hands on the throttle.

Tommy struck instantly without thought as to the outcome--only with
hope. And his hopes were fulfilled. He hurled himself against the
Martian with both fists extended. They hit hard brown hide just below
the Martian's right shoulder and sent him off balance. The Martian
snatched at Tommy while trying to regain his equilibrium and learned
the folly of attempting two things at once.

But too late. He teetered, howled dismally, and pitched in front of the
racing car. It hit him with a dull thud, killing him instantly. But his
dead bulk also wreaked a kind of vengeance on the car, lifting it from
its tracks and sending it skidding along on its side.

Tommy had been thrown clear and as he hit the wall of the tunnel he
knew he was done for. Every bone in his body snapped. Every ounce of
his flesh crackled with pain. He fell to the tracks and lay dying.

But the process was slower than he anticipated. A full minute passed
and he had not yet expired. This puzzled him. How could you live with
all this pain? With every bone broken? It just didn't make sense. Tommy
waited.

But death proved remarkably stubborn. It refused to drop its black
mantle over his tortured body. Finally Tommy moved an arm--a foot--a
leg. Odd. They all worked. He got to his feet. He conceded that maybe
the agony was not as great as it had first seemed. Now that he could
breathe again, things were better. There was only one bad place,
really; a vicious bloody abrasion along his right forearm.

The lights of a platform loomed ahead. Tommy crawled over the car and
stepped gingerly around the body of the dead Martian. Then he hurried
forward and climbed on the deserted platform.

Here the light was better and he examined his arm. It was an angry,
bloody mass but the blood was oozing out rather than flowing. No deep
wound had been suffered but it hurt like fury. He could not bear to
have anything touch it so he put his arm out at an awkward angle and
left it there while he looked around, wondering what this place was and
also how hard you had to get hit and how much it had to hurt before you
got killed.

       *       *       *       *       *

His ponderings were interrupted by the sound of footsteps. In the face
of this, there was nothing to do, he decided, but pick a direction and
run. Back up the tracks? No. While the lights from the overhead bulbs
were dim, they would still reveal him at quite a distance. The platform
had two exits. The running footsteps were approaching along one of
these. That left the other. Tommy plunged into it and ran.

He ran a long way and his surroundings changed swiftly. The rail
platform had been crude and uninspiring but now he was fleeing along a
beautiful marble corridor.

He stopped for breath, backed into a partially secluded niche and
admired his surroundings. Was this the kind of place the Martians lived
in? It certainly didn't fit into his preconceived notions of a place
where backward ice people would dwell.

As his breathing lessened, a tantalizing sound asserted itself upon his
ears. An odd, singing sound, both pleasant and mysterious. He wondered
where it came from.

He peeked out into the corridor and found it deserted.

The singing sound. As he walked back along the corridor, it diminished.
He turned and retraced his steps. The sound greatened until he came to
an archway in one wall of the corridor. The sound obviously emanated
from that direction. The archway was supported by gleaming marble
pillars and as Tommy passed between them, the singing sound rose to a
crescendo that vibrated deliciously against his nerve centers.

Then he saw it. A beautiful, domed room that gave a first impression
of being a public bath of some sort. But there was no water, only
brilliant, breathtaking color; all the gorgeous colors of the rainbow
dancing down from the ceiling in beams of crystal clarity. There was
sound and color--and something else; a subtle something that made Tommy
very happy; excitedly happy in a way he had never before experienced.

He moved forward, completely engrossed in his new surroundings.
He moved in under the shower of color and a feeling of ecstatic
exhilaration went through him. It was wonderful.

Then he froze. Not twenty feet away stood two Martians clad in rich
metal harness and holding long golden spears. Guards. Sudden fear
swept Tommy. The Martians were staring straight at him.

Desperately, he signalled to his frozen muscles; _Let's get out of
here._ But they failed to respond. The guards stared at him. He stared
back.

Nothing happened.

Why, they're asleep, Tommy thought in amazement. They're standing there
sound asleep with their eyes wide open holding their spears. That's
crazy. Why don't they fall down?

Tommy wanted to run. But he couldn't. The curiosity of the very young
not only barred retreat, but pushed him slowly forward until he was
standing beside one of the guards.

The Martian had not moved a muscle. His chest neither rose nor fell.
Completely fascinated, Tommy extended his hand. He touched the face of
the guard. It was rough and cool. The guard did not move, Tommy laid a
hand against the golden harness. Nothing happened. He had not intended
to push, but he did. He pushed so hard the guard tilted over on one
stiff leg. Appalled, Tommy leaped back.

The guard kept on tilting until he fell on his side with a great crash
of ringing metal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tommy darted back through the color rays and out of the strange room
so fast that he was far down the marble hall before his mind told him
he was running.

He kept on running. Then he stopped as suddenly as he had started. He
looked down at his wounded arm. He glanced quickly up and down the
corridor, then ducked again in a wall niche where he gave his whole
attention to his arm.

Had he dreamed all this? The horrible Martian in the tunnel? The car
crash? The color room? He must have dreamed it. The proof was there
before him. A smooth, unblemished forearm where there had been a huge
bloody bruise but a few moments before! He rubbed the arm--tested it.
There was not the faintest sign of a wound.

He looked around in bewilderment, peeked both ways and moved out again
into the corridor.

His luck had held for a long time but now it failed him as sudden
footsteps sounded in a traversing passage just ahead. They were coming
swiftly. Tommy looked around in desperation.

This appeared to be the end but it was not. Fate seemed indeed to be
toying with him--moving him around like a mobile chessman. At the last
moment it showed him a doorway he had overlooked. The door was unlocked
and he went through it as fast as he could while still closing it
softly behind him.

Inside, the light was very dim. Tommy listened at the door as the sound
of footsteps diminished. He smiled--quite proud of his ability to take
care of himself under these circumstances. He would certainly have a
lot to put in his diary when he got home.

_If_ he got home.

Tommy drove this last thought from his mind. He would make it. He was
doing all right. Whereupon fate slapped him and sharply for his conceit
by turning him and dropping him down a flight of stairs he'd been too
busy watching the door to notice.

The fall hurt but Tommy was no longer frightened. He knew that so long
as he had survived the car crash no violence of this type could even
dent him.

He got to his feet and danced around for a while, holding a barked
shin, then straightened as a new sound smote his ears. Someone was
sobbing.

A woman. A woman crying.

It did not take Tommy long to trace the sound. He was in a narrower,
lower corridor now; one not as fine as the big one upstairs. As
Tommy moved forward, the sobbing told him he was going in the right
direction. He opened a door.

Inside the small room was a narrow, high-legged bed--more of a table,
Tommy thought, but he gave it no attention. He was held spellbound by
what lay upon the table.

A girl with wrists and ankles bound down. She had long chestnut hair
that hung down over the edge of the table. She was helpless. And she
was completely nude....

       *       *       *       *       *

Rex got up from the floor to which he had been viciously hurled by
three Martian guards. He and Jean were in a cell. As the barred door
clanged shut, he turned to help Jean as best he could. "Are you hurt?"

"I--I guess not." She tried to smile. "Only my dignity."

"I got us into a pretty bad mess."

"It wasn't your fault."

"I don't know who's else it was."

Jean strained at her bonds. "They could have at least taken these
things off our wrists."

"We can do it ourselves."

"That guard out there--he's leering in. Maybe we'd better wait until he
leaves."

"Maybe he won't leave. Anyhow--I don't think they care whether we take
them off or not."

They stood back to back while Rex worked on the thongs binding Jean.
The knots were stubborn but they finally gave, the guard outside
watching the process with amusement.

Jean got Rex's wrist free quickly and they sat down on the edge of the
single bunk and rubbed their wrists. "Well," Jean said, "where do we go
from here?"

"To wherever they execute their prisoners, I imagine."

"But we're still alive. Aren't we supposed to keep the chin up like
they do in books?"

He took her suddenly in his arms.

"You're a brave girl."

She pressed close to him. "I'd rather hear you say I'm an attractive
girl."

He kissed her hard. "Does that convince you?"

She sighed and snuggled closer, oblivious of the leering guard.
"Thanks, mister. That's better. A gal doesn't mind dying, but she hates
to go out feeling she hasn't hooked her man."

Rex felt a catch in his throat at the brave front she was maintaining.
And it had to be an effort. Jean was no fool. She was a realist. No
need to tell her they were finished--that he was no superman who could
kick down a wall and carry her to safety.

"Let's not think about anything but us," she whispered. "We have at
least a few minutes to live--really live!"

"With that guard standing there?" Rex said bitterly.

"Well, then we can almost live." She kissed him.

A few minutes later, he said, "Did you notice anything funny out there
in that council room?"

"What do you mean by funny? I was so busy looking at those tumbling ice
cliffs--"

"I mean the councilmen sitting on either side of Pandek. Not one of
them moved or spoke."

"That's right. They sat there like dummies."

"A row of dummies afraid to move even their eyes."

"There's something else that puzzles me," Jean said. "Those ice cliffs
are life and death to we Terrans down below. Then why do the Martians
build them up each winter and melt them for us in the spring? I'd think
they'd leave the plains arid and thus drive us out."

"I wondered about that too. There can be only one explanation. They've
repeated the process for so long they're afraid to stop--afraid of what
it might do to the overall welfare of the planet."

"Perhaps if they didn't the ice would pile up of its own accord and
crush them and their cities."

"I wonder how many cities there are."

"I don't care--really. Hold me closer. I'm cold...."

       *       *       *       *       *

"But I don't understand why they would do such a thing as this," Tommy
said. He had released the girl and found her clothing in a corner of
the room.

"It is a part of some pagan rite they plan to revive. The victim must
lie in--in the manner you found me for a certain length of time. Some
weird looking priests visited me at intervals and recited incantations.
It was horrible!"

"What's your name?"

"I'm Helen Spencer. I came here with my father--"

"Never mind that now. I think we can get out of here. There was nobody
in the hallway when I came in."

"I'd like to find my father."

"We can try."

"They separated us a long time ago. For a while they treated me like a
queen, even though they kept me a prisoner. I wondered why. Now I know.
It was all a part of this terrible pagan sacrifice. I think the time is
very near."

"Then let's go."

But they had waited too long. The door opened and four Martian guards
entered. They almost filled the room. Tommy hurled himself at the
closest one but was knocked viciously back against the wall. It seemed
that fate had deserted him at last.

The Martian in charge, one who stood a head taller than the other
three, grasped Helen roughly by the arm. He seemed infuriated at
finding her dressed. He threw her roughly after Tommy and she too fell
to the floor.

The Martian stood there, undecided, some problem evidently occupying
his mind. The three subordinates waited in silence. After a few
moments, the leader turned and barked several sharp commands.

The orders puzzled the three Martians. They stood where they were until
the leader barked another sharper order. Then they turned and filed out.

The leader stood motionless until their footsteps died in the corridor.
Then he bent swiftly and lifted Helen Spencer to her feet.

As she cringed away, he said, "I am Maxis, a dictor in the Emperor's
guard. I think perhaps you can help me. If so, I may be able to help
you."

"You--you're speaking Terran," Helen said.

"Of course. Many of us know your language." He pointed to Tommy. "Who
is this one?"

"I don't know. But I'm sure he has hurt none of you. Please let him go
free."

Maxis shook his head impatiently. "It is of no importance. Tell
me--while you lay here bound, did they bring a man to see you? A very
old man--very feeble?"

Helen did not trust the Martian. After what had happened to her she
was in no mood to trust any of these people. There had been an old
man. The priests and a tall young Martian had practically carried him
in. They had stayed in the room for quite a while, the young Martian
talking harshly. The older one had pleaded with him. Had the old man
escaped? Helen wondered. Was this one hunting him down?

"You don't trust me," Maxis said, "but you must. If the old one came
he would have been brought by a young one. The old one would have been
horrified at seeing you."

"That's how it was," Helen said.

Maxis' eyes flared. He laid a quick hand on Helen's shoulder, then drew
it back. "How long ago was this? Tell me! How long ago?"

"Several hours at least."

"Then he still lives! They lied to us. Pandek lied to us!"

"If you would explain--"

"The man you saw--the old one--was Fanton, Lord of the North
Hemisphere--Ruler of Mars. Pandek told us of his death when he assumed
the throne. Only for this reason did the legions swear loyalty to
Pandek. But Fanton still lives!"

Tommy had got to his feet and was brushing his clothes. "Maybe not.
They might have killed him in the meantime."

"I have a feeling he is not dead," Maxis insisted. "I must find him. I
must not fail to find him!"

He was turning toward the door. Tommy said, "What about us?"

Maxis turned back and Tommy knew he was ready to leave them to fend for
themselves. Tommy said, "You promised to help us if she told you what
you wanted to know."

"You are right. But you will be in my way."

"A promise is a promise," Tommy said stoutly.

"Very well. We will go down to the prison block. You two will march
ahead. I will act as though I am delivering you. But if there is any
trouble I will have to desert you. I cannot stand and fight. I cannot
risk being slain until I find my Emperor."

They marched out into the corridor. The three guards had gone their way
and no one was in sight. But from the grim look on the Martian's face,
Tommy knew peril lay ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door to the cell in which Rex and Jean were imprisoned was
unlocked. Five Martian guards entered. The leader was in high rage.
"This girl will have to do," he snapped. "The crowds in the square will
not know the difference and the priests will just have to keep their
mouths shut. Take her!"

As three of the guards advanced on Jean, Rex went into action. He drove
his knee into the groin of the leader, bending the Martian forward into
a straight right that almost tore his head off. The Martian went down.
His jaw structure was so thick, Rex's fist turned numb from the contact
and the Martian was only dazed.

Rex knew his one hope lay in getting control of the small pistol
the leader carried. He lunged. The gun lay in the fallen leader's
out-stretched hand. Rex's fingers touched it. But the leader's fist
closed.

The delay was fatal. It gave one of the guards time to take one long
step and kick Rex solidly behind the right ear. Rex went down hard,
smacking the floor with his face. He did not move. Jean screamed. A
hard hand went brutally over her mouth, dragging her down also.

The leader of the squad said, "Take her to the ceremonial room. Prepare
her for the knife. Tell the priests I will be there soon."

"Aye, great Lord Pandek," the guard said.

Jean bit the hand that lay across her mouth. It was jerked away. She
tore loose and threw herself down on Rex's unconscious body. She was
pulled roughly to her feet and other hard hands dragged her away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps it was Tommy's luck that carried the party through. On the trip
to the cell blocks they met only two other Martians--not soldiers--who
exhibited only mild curiosity.

Once in the lower tier, Maxis seemed more at home. "This is the
likeliest cell block," he said.

"But we can't search all those cells," Tommy said. "It would take
hours. We'd surely be stopped." He was looking down a long corridor
lined with bars. Other corridors intersected until the place was a maze.

"You are right," Maxis said. "I have a plan that may save us time.
Come. You two walk behind me now."

They moved down the corridor. Only one guard lay in their path but he
was down on his haunches, asleep. They glided past him, Maxis' gun
held ready. They moved on until they were approaching a more brightly
lighted intersection. A small table was located against the bars of a
corner cell and a Martian sat at the table occupied with some papers.

The trio approached from behind the man quietly. He heard them when
they were a few steps away. He turned. Maxis took a last bold step and
was towering over the seated one.

Maxis spoke casually, but with authority. "I've been sent to deliver
Fanton to the council hall."

Maxis did not expect cooperation from the guard. But he hoped for
something else. His eyes were on the guard's face, watching for the
man's first reaction.

It was entirely satisfactory from Maxis' point of view. The guard's
startled eyes widened, then narrowed in suspicion. "Who sent you for
him?"

Maxis smiled without humor. "Then he is here! He does live! What cell,
you mother's mistake? Quick!"

The guard looked into the barrel of the deadly gun Maxis held close to
his face. A black hole from whence could come needle flames that would
burn his head into an instantaneous crisp. "The--third aisle--cell
eight--"

The gun in Maxis's hand spit a small blue flame. For a moment, the
guard's head was enveloped in fire. Then the head was gone.

Helen Spencer recoiled in horror. Maxis said, "He was a traitor." To
the Martian, that justified everything. He bent over and picked up the
headless body and carried it into the nearest cell.

He returned and said to Tommy, "This is the dangerous moment. You must
help me--do exactly as I say. You must go to the cell and bring Fanton
back to this table. I must wait here."

Tommy was perplexed. "I don't get it. You should be better able to get
him out of his cell. If we meet a guard, he'll stop us."

"No he won't. He will bring you here. All authority in the block stems
from this key-center. If you meet a guard tell him you are under orders
from the key-keeper. He will be suspicious and completely confounded,
but he will bring you here. In the meantime I can better stave off
trouble with the authority this post gives me." Maxis looked at Helen
and pointed. "You--into that cell--out of sight. Stay there until we
have either succeeded or failed." His face was grim. "If we fail, you
must shift for yourself with nothing but my good wishes to help you on
your way."

His tone indicated his good wishes would be of scant aid. He laid a
hand on Tommy's shoulder. "Walk to the next intersection down that
corridor. Turn to your right and count off seven cells. Fanton will be
in the eighth. Good luck."

       *       *       *       *       *

Tommy took the key Maxis handed him and started off as directed. The
key seemed very heavy. The corridor seemed very long. The task set for
him seemed next to impossible.

He reached the cell without trouble. He unlocked the door. Inside, a
very old Martian lay in filth and rags on the floor. Tommy knelt beside
him, his heart pounding. "You are to come with me," he said.

The old Martian opened his eyes. "Who are you?"

"I am Tommy Wilks, a Terran, but that doesn't matter. Maxis, one of
your friends, is waiting at the table down the hall. Can you walk, sir?"

A tired smile brightened the old Martian's face. "Strange indeed are
our times--when a Terran juvenile comes to aid the Lord of the North
Hemisphere. The times have gone mad and we can only go where destiny
directs--or seems to."

Fanton, with Tommy's aid, had got to his feet and Tommy helped him
from the cell. But now there was a barrier--three scowling Martian
guards. One of them barked a challenge in his own language. "Don't say
anything," Tommy warned Fanton. "Maxis said it might work out like
this."

To the Martian, he said, "I've been sent to bring the prisoner," but he
knew the Martian did not understand him.

The three spoke among themselves, their confusion quite obvious.

Then it worked exactly as Maxis had hoped. At a command from one, the
other two guards took Tommy and Fanton each by an arm and hauled them
along the corridor toward the key-center. As they approached it, Tommy
saw that Maxis had gotten to his feet and was waiting for them. The
grim Martian stood with both hands behind his back.

As they came to a halt, the leader of the trio spoke questioningly to
Maxis in their own language. Before Maxis could answer, the other's
eyes opened wide and Tommy knew what was going on in his mind. He was
recognizing Maxis as a false key-keeper.

The leader got short satisfaction from his discovery. He died with his
questions still unanswered as Maxis brought his right arm around and
blasted the man's head into a cinder.

The other two guards fell away quickly, their reflexes in perfect
condition. Both snatched for their own guns, one going down as Maxis'
ray cut him in two.

The other guard was bringing his gun up. Maxis had no time to match
shots with him or perhaps chose not to from a certainty that both of
them would die as a result.

Instead, he hurled himself on the guard and caught the latter's wrist
bending the gun away from himself and the others. The guard was far
heavier than Maxis, his bulk possessed of greater strength. He dropped
the gun but heaved Maxis to one side and come down heavily upon him.
He had trapped Maxis' arms successfully and it was a matter of moments
before he would again have the gun in his fist.

Tommy acted from desperation--without plan. A heavy ring of keys lay
on the desk. Tommy snatched them up and swung them, from high over his
head, down hard on the skull of the guard. The guard's head was indeed
hard. The keys rang dully against it but the guard's hand only faltered
in reaching for the gun.

Tommy swung the keys again, and again. Unable to grip the gun, the
guard reached with both hands, thus loosing his hold on Maxis for a
moment.

The moment was enough. Suddenly the guard stiffened and came awkwardly
erect. There was an empty look in his eyes and then Tommy saw the
reason. The handle of a dagger protruded from his chest, driven in by
Maxis who was even now rolling the corpse over and coming free.

Maxis sheathed his dagger, still dripping blood. He snapped, "We've got
to move fast. Now all we have to go on is hope."

Helen came from the cell as Tommy asked, "Where are we going?"

"We've got to get Fanton to the Place of Eternal Strength. Come!"

He took the old Martian in his arms and the cavalcade moved off down
the corridor following Maxis' lead. Guards could be heard, running in
from different directions.

To Maxis, it was but a matter of time. He did not expect to reach the
Place of Eternal Strength. He could only try; and die finally, battling
for his Emperor. But this did not sadden him. There was no better way
for a Martian to die....

       *       *       *       *       *

Rex floated in a sea of pain. Sadistically beaten by the guards who
had overpowered him, he lay on the floor of the cell; aware of the
blood-pool around him and of the pain, but unable to force his body
into action. He knew the door to the cell stood open. He forced his
mind to focus on this point. It could mean only one thing.

The guards had left him for dead.

The thought cheered him. He was not dead. Therefore he was living on
borrowed time--a break men in his profession seldom got.

Another thought intruded. Maybe he wasn't lucky. Maybe he was crippled.
He had as yet not inventoried the damage. Was it worse than the pain
indicated?

He searched for numbness and found none. He moved and the pain
increased. That was good. Nothing paralyzed. But was an arm or leg
broken? Was there a spine injury?

Resolutely, he forced his muscles to respond. Arms, legs, bones okay.
He got to his feet and swayed dizzily. Pain shot through his head. He
almost blacked out, clawed at the wall, kept himself from falling.

He got hold of a bar and held himself erect while the floor spun and
the walls tilted. Then they steadied away. His stomach settled back
into place, the nausea giving ground sullenly.

After a while, he decided he was all right. As all right as he would be
for a long time. He looked around for a weapon. All the bars were in
solid rock. The legs of the bunk were riveted down.

He hunted and stood finally looking at his two fists. They were all he
had. They would have to do.

He stepped out of his cell and saw two guards approaching along the
corridor. He debated flight. He stopped. There were the two fists.
Might as well find out right now how effective they would be. He
crouched and stood waiting....

       *       *       *       *       *

Jean moved in a daze. She had been taken by the Martian guard through
long corridors, into a splendid part of whatever building this was. At
one point during the trip, she lashed out suddenly, bit the hand across
her mouth and raked her nails across a hard face.

The Martians had been in no mood to tame a tigress the gentle way.
The big Martian, after snarling from the bite, swung his other fist
viciously. The blow rang against Jean's head. She fell. The Martians
growled at each other, picked her up roughly and carried her,
half-conscious, on down the corridor.

She was taken to a high room, far up in the building. The room seemed
to be some sort of a storage place for fine garments. They were
everywhere; gold surplices hanging in rows; gold and silver sandals
hanging from pegs along the wall. A rich room with windows and daylight
coming in; the first Jean had seen in a long time.

She remembered the stone hutch--so wondrous--so far away--so
unattainable. Rex. Tears welled in Jean's eyes and she tasted the dregs
of bitterness as she saw Rex--in memory--lying bloody and broken on the
floor of the cell; recalled the ferocity with which the Martians had
attacked him.

Suddenly Jean realized what was going on--what the Martians were doing
there in the high room--stripping off her clothing. With a choked cry
she found new strength and fought again.

She took them by surprise; broke from them and ran, half naked, toward
the door. Escape seemed imminent but she threw herself straight into
the arms of a tall, scowling Martian who held her like a child and
carried her back into the terrible room. As he walked toward them,
those who had brought her there fell on their knees. One of them
intoned, "Pandek--great Pandek--Lord of the North Hemisphere."

"Not quite," Pandek said, speaking in Terran. "And never if I continue
to be surrounded by bungling fools such as you, who cannot hold a slip
of a girl. Had I not come through that door she would even now be
making her escape."

"She surprised us, great Pandek. It will not happen again."

Callously, Pandek held Jean forth with one great hand and hit her
sharply on the point of her chin with a doubled fist. "I'll make
certain of that. Here--take her. Maybe you will be safer with an
unconscious sacrifice. Comb out her hair--wash her body. Put on the
golden harness--get her ready for the knife."

They took Jean from him and laid her on a marble slab and continued
their ministrations. Pandek, scowling deeply, walked to the window
and looked out. Beyond and below was a great open square filled with
people. They milled about a high, central platform upon which sat a
throne and a sacrificial block. The block was caked with the blood of a
thousand sacrifices made before the Reformation, centuries before. It
had been removed from the square, but had been carefully preserved by a
core of fanatics who had never given up hope of the Old Regime coming
again into power; the old, bloody regime that worshiped the robust
pagan gods and gave the people great spectacles.

Now the block had been returned; the minds of the people had been
inflamed and they awaited the first sacrifice of the New Age--the age
in which proud pagan Mars would again demand its rightful place in the
sun. Pandek's hand thrilled for the feel of the knife. He thrilled at
the thought of driving it home and thus ushering in the New Age.

His mind went, quite naturally, to Fanton, the weak old fool he had
dragged down. It had been a clever coup. Of course, Fanton still had
followers, but they had been misled, lied to, cleverly hoodwinked. A
little fearful of a slip in his plans, Pandek had not had Fanton slain.
He had merely thrown the old fool into a cell to die--had deprived him
of rejuvenation.

Perhaps Fanton was already dead. Pandek wondered. But perhaps not, and
with plans having gone forward so smoothly, it was safe to kill the
deposed Lord of the Northern Hemisphere.

Pandek turned swiftly and went to see about it....

       *       *       *       *       *

Maxis, leading his cavalcade down the prison corridor and carrying the
even frailer body of his Emperor, traveled half the breadth of the
prison before danger confronted him; three guards loyal to Pandek the
usurper and dedicated to his treacherous cause.

Maxis laid the body of Fanton gently upon the floor. Then he stepped
over it and made his stand between his Emperor and those who had
deserted him. He paid no attention to the two Terrans. He wished them
neither harm nor good fortune, they would be of no value in this fight
so he forgot them.

The guards, sure of their advantage, moved slowly forward. They knew
Maxis and gave him a tribute by taking it for granted he would not
retreat. They drew their short, wicked swords, thus forcing Maxis, a
man of ethics, to foreswear use of any other weapon even though death
faced him.

The Martians moved in from three angles, skillful swordsmen all, and
Maxis parried three quick thrusts with a tricky maneuver that left a
scratch on the arm of one guard.

It was a gallant parry, worthy of a better reward than certain death.
The guards retreated a step, set themselves, and moved in again. Maxis
would certainly not be able to repeat the maneuver.

Then there was new, sudden, and devastating action. From the rear of
the guards, came a crazed, unarmed juggernaut of destruction; a mad
Terran; bloody, savage-eyed, lethal, he threw himself against the
flank of the advancing trio, locked an arm around his throat, and with
leverage obtained by wrapping his legs around the Martian's body,
snapped the ugly head at the base of the spine.

The Martian fell with the Terran under him. As Tommy cried, "Rex--Rex!
Where did you come from?" the Terran had disentangled himself from
the corpse and was engaging a second guard. Stunned by the suddenness
of the attacks, the guard was easy prey for the Terran's death grip.
A second spine snapped and as the Terran rose, he saw that the third
guard had fallen before Maxis' sword.

Maxis said, "Your aid was indeed timely."

Rex wiped blood from his face and advanced like a great cat. "What are
you doing with these people?"

Tommy rushed forward. "It's all right, Rex. This is our friend. The
old man is the Lord of the North Hemisphere. Maxis is trying to save
his life. This is Helen Spencer. They were going to kill her."

Maxis had again taken Fanton in his arms. "We have no time to discuss
these things. Find a gun on one of those bodies and follow."

He moved swiftly down the corridor. Tommy and Helen Spencer followed,
but Rex strode forward until he was abreast of the Martian. "Where are
we going?" There was suspicion and hostility in his voice--as though he
suspected a trick.

"I can't go into detail," Maxis said, "but believe me, our chances of
survival lie in reaching a ray fountain we call the Place of Eternal
Strength. The Emperor's life is at stake and ours also."

As though on cue, two guards appeared from a cross-corridor. Grinning
mirthlessly, Rex turned the gun on them. It spat forth a crackling
ray that cut them in the middle and brought the upper halves of their
bodies toppling to the floor.

"Now lead the way," Rex said.

He killed four more guards before they arrived at the Place of Eternal
Strength, shooting them in the back without compunction as he stalked
ahead of Rex, clearing the way.

Upon arrival at their destination, Tommy cried, "Why this is the place
where my arm was healed. I had a wound and then it was gone!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Maxis laid the body of Fanton on a marble couch under the singing
colored rays. "Even greater miracles are achieved here," he said. "It
heals all ills--even old age. If a spark of life remains in a body, the
fountain greatens and strengthens it."

Rex stared in wonder. "Will it revive the dead?"

"No. It will preserve a dead body--cause it to remain perfect for
centuries but once life is gone it can never be returned."

"Then this is what happened to Professor Spencer. He was killed and
placed under this ray."

Maxis nodded sadly. "Brutally murdered. It was Pandek's signal for his
great coup. We were caught completely unawares. He acted very cleverly
and told us Fanton had died, refusing rejuvenation, when in truth he
had deprived Fanton of the fountain's healing power. Only today did I
discover that Fanton still lived."

Rex was staring at the body of the ancient ruler. "How long does the
process take?"

"A matter of minutes. Let's only hope that those minutes are afforded
us."

"There are still some shots in my gun," Rex said.

They waited, while the body of Fanton seemed to visibly recharge
itself. Two guards appeared. Rex killed them.

"How was this rebellion allowed to get started?" he asked.

There was a grim look upon Maxis' face. "Through laxness. Through
carelessness. From stopping our ears against the sound of treacherous
undercurrents. From feeling that young hotheads were basically sound
and would not arrange their own destruction and ours too."

"This Pandek you speak of--he planned to move against the Terrans to
the south?"

"He still plans it. He has vowed to wipe every alien from the planet
and establish a new age of Martian resurgence."

"The Martians would be annihilated."

"Pandek is willing to gamble on that."

"He must be insane," Rex said.

"It began when Fanton advocated a change in Martian policy. For
centuries, ever since the Terrans came, our course has been one of
proud isolation. The policy was instituted centuries ago by ill-advised
leaders and Fanton carried it on against his better judgment. When
he began talking of a reversal, the underground mutiny gained in
strength."

"Will saving Fanton's life stop the rebellion?"

"This thing we do is only a feeble step in the right direction. Even
with Fanton strong and healthy, we may not be able to win."

"What is this sacrifice business?"

"It is supposed to take place in the public square. An old and barbaric
rite in which a maiden is slain and the people file by and bathe
their hands in her blood. It will be the signal for the final act of
over-throw--when the rebels come into the open and slay all who remain
faithful to Fanton."

A new voice spoke. The two men turned. Fanton was sitting on the edge
of the marble couch. Helen and Tommy were staring at him.

Fanton's words were for Maxis. "You have done well. If I'd known before
where loyalty lay, things might have been different."

Maxis dropped to one knee. He bowed his head. "My lord."

"No time for this. I must get to the Council."

"It will be very dangerous."

"But the uprising must be beaten down. The Council is still loyal. They
must see that I am alive."

Rex said, "I think you'll find--"

Fanton waved him to silence. "We must hurry."

       *       *       *       *       *

As the group left the Place of Eternal Strength, Maxis said, "Perhaps
they will have to be assembled. If they are not in session--"

"They _must_ be in session!"

On the trip to the Amphitheater of the Gods, two rebels were killed and
one loyal Martian added to the cavalcade. As they moved into the great
hall, Fanton said, "They are here!"

This appeared to be true. The seats flanking the central throne were
still occupied. The throne itself was vacant. Immediately upon entering
the great hall, Rex ran forward and climbed to the tier of benches.
The council members sat silent, unmoving. Rex pushed the body of the
nearest one. It tumbled off the bench like a sack of grain and fell to
the floor.

Fanton paled. "What does this mean?"

"They're all dead," Rex replied. "When we were here before I
noticed that none of them moved nor spoke. This is the work of a
mad-man--Pandek. This is his joke. He rules all alone."

Maxis said, "You will have to try and escape, my Lord. You must get to
the Terrans and tell your story."

Fanton considered. "If I run like a coward, thousands of loyal Martians
will die. Their blood will be on my hands."

"That's not true," Rex said, sharply.

Further talk was interrupted by the sound of men approaching at a run.
Fanton turned and pointed. "Behind that pillar! There is a small door
that leads to an observatory platform above the square. Only my father
knew of the stairway behind the wall."

Fanton pressed a carved leaf in a decoration on the pillar and a small
section of the seemingly unbroken wall moved inward. Fanton entered and
the rest followed with Rex and Maxis and the new recruit bringing up
the rear.

Maxis said, "I will stay here and fight. I'm tired of running away."

Rex dragged him into the opening. "Don't be a fool. There's a time to
fight and a time to run. This is a time to run."

As the wall-section slid back into place, Fanton indicated a stairway
a short distance down the narrow corridor. Rex said to Maxis. "You go
ahead to guard Fanton. This new man and I will stay here in case Fanton
and his father weren't the only ones who knew about that opening. I
think whoever was coming heard us leave."

Maxis was prepared to object. He hesitated, watching Fanton, Tommy and
Helen move up the circular stairway. "Go ahead," Rex snapped. "You
don't know who may be up there."

Scowling, Maxis turned suddenly and took the stairs three at a time.

Rex and the loyal Martian had a short wait. The sound of the others had
scarcely died out above, when the panel opened again. "I was right,"
Rex whispered. "Stand on the other side."

The two defenders had the advantage of a comparatively dim interior;
that, and the remaining charges in Rex's gun. Three guards crowded into
the narrow passageway.

As they saw Rex standing by the stairway, he dropped to the floor and
fired at an upward angle. His lethal charges cut the two forward guards
to pieces.

The third one, though confused, was more alert. He also had a gun
and looked desperately around for a target. The loyal Martian thrust
viciously with his sword. He missed. The guard danced away. Rex brought
his gun around, but hesitated with the loyal Martian in his range of
fire. When he maneuvered a clear shot, he pressed the switch. Nothing
happened. The gun was empty.

In the meantime, the guard brought his gun around to bear on the
Martian. The later made a second desperate thrust. It went home but
only as the Martian fell dead from the guard's last shot. Rex got to
his feet, wiping sweat from his face.

And at that moment, Pandek stepped into the passageway.

Instantly, Rex leaped for the fallen guard's gun. Pandek smiled
contemptuously and kicked it far down the passageway. Pandek apprised
the situation swiftly. He said, "Pick up the sword, Terran scum."

Without reply, Rex bent down and did as directed.

"Are you skilled in its use?" Pandek asked.

"I never had one in my hand before."

Pandek raised his own sword, identical to the one Rex held. "Then I'm
afraid the contest will be rather unequal," he said and moved toward
Rex. "On guard! It will be a great pleasure to kill you."

Rex took a backward step. He was no match for Pandek with these
weapons. Pandek would be a master at close swordsmanship. This had to
be true. Otherwise Pandek would not be so eager to engage him.

Rex thought of the headquarters on Earth; of Professor Spencer, so
still, so peaceful in that box. So dead. Would he go back to Terra the
same way?

With Fanton's hiding place known to Pandek, the rebellion seemed
assured of success--as certain as his own death at Pandek's hands.

He took another backward step....

       *       *       *       *       *

Jean was ready for the sacrifice. She had been dressed in a rich golden
harness and wore golden manacles on her wrists. She had waited in the
room with the sound of the crowds in the great court below rising in
volume as their impatience increased.

Finally a door opened. A tall resplendent figure entered. He wore a
jeweled cloak that swept the floor. A hideous golden mask covered his
face.

There were two attending priests with Jean. They dropped to their knees
and lowered their eyes. One of them intoned, "Great Pandek. Lord of the
Northern Hemisphere. The sacrifice is ready for your knife."

The room grew hazy before Jean's eyes. It spun in a sickening swirl as
she slipped to the floor in a dead faint....

When she regained consciousness, Jean found herself under an archway
in the court below. The great square was jammed with howling Martians.
A long red carpet stretched from the archway to the platform in the
center of the square. The sting of a sharp odor in her nostrils told
Jean how she had been revived.

A priest on either side now supported her. They moved forward from the
building toward the platform. Evidently, she could either walk or be
dragged. She preferred to walk. She raised her head high and matched
the priests step for step.

The crowd pressed close to the red carpet on either side. Unbroken
lines of guards held the Martians back. To Jean, they seemed things out
of a nightmare.

They reached the steps leading up to the platform. Five steps. She
counted them as she ascended.

The marble block.

The priests laid her along its length. The golden manacles were
removed. Each priest took an arm and held her to the slab with the tall
masked figure raising his knife and looking down at her. The knife
arched.

Then, halfway in its descent toward her bared breast, it stopped. The
masked figure looked upward toward the high wall of the building. He
shrank backward--pointed with the knife as he cringed away.

A dramatic gesture that turned every eye in the square toward a small
balcony high on the wall. A cry went up. A single word.

"Fanton!"

The true Lord of the Northern Hemisphere stood with his arms
out-stretched imperiously over the crowd below. He held this position
until the roaring died away and a whisper could have been heard in the
great square. Then he spoke.

"Hear your Emperor now! You have been lied to by those who would
destroy you. You have been told I was dead and that a new order would
prevail among you; an old, outdated order that brought only blood and
suffering in its time. I tell you now that those who spoke thus were
traitors who sought to exploit your suffering to their cruel ends.
The leader of these was Pandek, a prince I trusted. I now declare his
life forfeit and say to you that he will be executed in public at this
hour one day hence. Return now to your homes and have done with this
madness. I, your Emperor command each of you personally. You who are
vested with authority, return to your duties."

The sonorous voice ceased and Jean felt herself being raised from the
marble slab. She opened her eyes. The golden mask had been lifted from
the face of the executioner. He had dropped the knife and now he held a
sword in his hand.

It was Maxis.

He whispered, "Under the platform, quick! There is an underground
passage back into the palace. You will be safe."

Jean was bewildered. As she descended she saw that the crowd had surged
backward, leaving an open space between the platform and the palace.
Maxis turned and ran toward the open space.

A small group of Martians was running forward from the building. They
were led by Pandek with a sword in his hand. From another doorway, Rex
ran to join Maxis. He was unarmed.

One of Pandek's group turned and swerved out to intercept him. Like a
great cat, Rex crouched, waiting. The Martian moved in. Rex went under
the vicious swipe of the Martian's sword and caught the Martian's arm
and spun him around. Before the Martian could recover his balance,
there was an arm around his throat--pressure on his spine. He screamed
as his spine snapped. Rex raced on and joined Maxis.

       *       *       *       *       *

The guards in the square had now chosen sides. A few rallied behind
Pandek. By far the majority took their stand behind Maxis. Their number
doomed the smaller group.

But Maxis held up his hands. "Stand back! All of you! Come forward,
Pandek. You think so highly of your swordsman's skill. Let me see the
proof. Just we two."

Pandek was not slow in accepting the challenge. He came forward and
the two Martians circled cautiously in the open space between the two
opposing forces.

Pandek seemed the better of the two. Maxis fought mainly on the
defensive, his play unspectacular, which made Pandek's thrusts seem all
the more brilliant.

Pandek evidently felt any retreat was a mark against him. Not so with
Maxis. He retreated whenever it was made necessary by Pandek's able
thrusts. Pandek sneered. Maxis fought stolidly, doggedly.

Until Pandek made the mistake of losing regard for his foe's ability.
He thrust smartly and did not maintain the balance necessary for
retreat in case of quick counter attack.

The counterattack came. Suddenly Maxis' blade was everywhere. Pandek
retreated in order to regain his balance and reassume domination of the
match.

Maxis never gave him a chance to do this. Always, Pandek was a scant
second too late in parrying a thrust to balance himself for the next.
He fell.

Maxis moved in swiftly. For a moment he stayed his thrust hoping. And
what he hoped for, came to pass. Pandek's courage broke. With terror in
his eyes, the fallen Martian shouted. "Stop! I am of royal blood. You
don't dare kill me!"

Maxis smiled and drove his blade home.

As he drew it forth, he glanced at Pandek's waiting group. Brave men
all, who had espoused the losing cause openly. To a man they were
throwing down their swords, their eyes on the dead Pandek, contempt on
their faces. The contempt of men who suddenly realized they had been
led by a coward. Men who were ashamed.

Maxis sheathed his blade and looked up to where Fanton, Lord of the
Northern Hemisphere raised his hand in salute.

Maxis bowed. Then he turned to Rex. He said, "It is over, my friend.
The fuse has been snuffed in time. We will be eternally in your
gratitude."

"It's the other way around. We're getting out of this little affair
with whole skins. That's something to be really thankful for."

       *       *       *       *       *

(_From the diary of Tommy Wilks_)

_What a story I'll have to tell! I guess I'm about the luckiest kid
on Mars right now because when we get back, they're going to let me
tell what happened! I've got it all written down so I won't forget
anything. I've got it up to the time we left Rex and the Martian in the
passageway behind the wall. Rex didn't tell me all that happened but
when Maxis got back there, after hearing the noise, he found Pandek on
the floor unconscious. Rex said Pandek came at him with a sword and he
was pretty sure Pandek would kill him but Pandek missed a thrust and
Rex got in a lucky grab and pushed a nerve on Pandek's neck. He made it
sound very easy but I'll bet Rex is about the best nerve fighter in the
world. That's what they call men who can kill with nothing but their
bare hands._

_Anyhow, they brought Pandek upstairs and Maxis wanted to kill him. But
Fanton said no--that Pandek should be kept alive until the rebellion
was over--if it ever was._

_They talked about what they'd do, but Fanton made the final decision
because he was the Emperor. He said he wanted to reveal himself to the
people at a dramatic moment because that was what had an affect on
crowds. He decided the most dramatic moment would be while the knife
was raised over Jean._

_So they took Pandek to a room and tied him up and Maxis took his
place. Maxis' job was to call the crowd's attention to Fanton at the
right instant to heighten the dramatic effect. He was also supposed to
look scared to death so the crowd wouldn't swing Pandek's side against
the Emperor._

_It all worked swell except for one thing. Some traitor guards came
and let Pandek out. If Pandek had gone after Fanton, it all might have
ended differently. That's what Rex said. But Pandek got rattled and
went after Maxis instead. Maxis killed him even though Pandek was a
much better swordsman._

_Now to me, that doesn't make any sense. I asked Rex about that but he
just smiled and said Pandek was better than Maxis except for one thing.
Guts. That's a funny term that means courage. I wonder where Rex heard
it. Probably on Earth._

_Anyhow, everything is fine, now. The people are behind Fanton and
he's coming back to New Iowa with us and wants to go on to Terra for a
good-will visit. He wants to open the northern country to Terrans and
trade scientific secrets._

_Right now I'm in a room they gave me to sleep in while we're here. I
saw Jean and Rex walking in the garden down below. He was kissing her._

_Or maybe it was the other way around._

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SECRET OF THE MARTIANS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
