The Project Gutenberg eBook of The First, by Edward Ludwig

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The First

Author: Edward Ludwig

Release Date: February 4, 2022 [eBook #67316]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FIRST ***





                               THE FIRST

                           By EDWARD LUDWIG

                     _"Man will need signposts to
                  guide the way to infinity." That's
                  a quotation from--and a description
                       of--this inspiring story_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Infinity Science Fiction, November 1955.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The city was enchanted. It was a colossal music box blaring forth a
thousand chants of victory. It was a rainbow torn down from the sky and
poured over the earth. It was a magic nursery through which eager-eyed
children swarmed to behold a sparkling new toy.

Three spacemen, three conquerors-to-be, sat stiffly in the back seat
of a blue-bannered convertible. The car moved snail-like toward the
Capitol steps, escorted by a hundred bands, eight hundred flowered
floats, and ten thousand marching men.

In its front seat, standing, waving to the crowd, was Captain George
Everson. Everson--the legless man. Everson--the bronzed giant whose
first rocketship had exploded at take-off, and yet who had lived to
walk on artificial legs, to build a second rocket, and to infect all
the world with his square-jawed determination.

It was barely eight o'clock on this April morning of the year 1982, yet
the onslaught against the spacemen had begun. Confetti rained on them.
Breeze-filled flags dazzled them. Band music deafened them. The flow
of shouting spectators dizzied them. It was a day when holiday hats
and mathematicians' formulae, roasted peanuts and ancient dreams were
blended in a fury of joy.

The magic wand that had enchanted the city was Everson's _Lunar Lady_.
And it _was_ like a wand--1,000 tons of it, poised on the take-off
field on the outskirts of the city, its needle-point nose turned
skyward and shining silver in the morning sunlight.

Tonight, at sunset, when the city was saturated with speeches and music
and popcorn and prayer, the great rocket would rumble and belch flame
and rise. Mankind would begin its first flight to the moon!

So it seemed that the people of all the earth were basking in joy and
hope, every man, woman and child--with one exception.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jeffrey Simon rose from his bed, awakened by the rhythm of march music
outside his small apartment. He shuffled sleepily to a window. He
blinked at the array of flags and bunting that lined the street.

The music became louder.

He ran a shaky, withered hand over his wizened face, brushed stringy
white hair back from his forehead. His lips curved in a grim
half-smile.

"It's starting," he murmured, "--the day that should have been yours."

He realized that he was talking to himself again. But although he was
only fifty-six, talking aloud seemed natural to him. It not only eased
his loneliness; it also helped him to clarify his muddled thoughts.

"Today is your last chance. Not tomorrow or the next day. It _has_ to
be today."

The thump-thump of a base drum was like a gigantic heart-beat shaking
all the land. The blare of trumpets was a victory song, strong enough
to live in the mind of a man forever, strong enough to silence forever
the voices of fear and loneliness that might haunt a spaceman.

"That's the music," Jeffrey Simon muttered, "that should have been
yours."

A crimson-lettered banner said: EVERSON--THE FIRST.

What a mockery those words were! It was like worshiping an evil,
false-faced goddess. The illusion should and must be destroyed.

He jerked erect. He must move quickly. He must put an end to this
cosmic lie.

He dressed in a freshly-cleaned, single-breasted tweed suit. His tie
was hastily knotted. There was no time for breakfast.

He strode to a drawer of his bureau, yanked it open, dug away a layer
of under-clothing. He smiled as he beheld two objects.

His hands moved gently. His hands were like those of a florist
arranging a garland of delicate blossoms. They were like the hands of a
surgeon fearful of a fatal error. They were like the hands of a father
upon his first-born.

He picked up the stone.

It was a bright, phosphorescent green, mottled with flecks of gold and
no larger than an apple. Its glow seemed to fill all the room. Jeffrey
remembered the cave at the base of Luna's Mount Pico from where he'd
chipped it. The cave's eerie glow had almost seemed alive, quivering
and pulsing with alien energy. Jeffrey, in his space-suit and half
blinded, had staggered when he left with his specimen.

Next, he touched the photograph.

It was a moment of eternity captured long ago and still imprisoned
in a wrinkled, yellowed paper. On it was the rocket, the _Marilyn_,
which had been his home for fifteen years. Behind it, on a rise in the
pock-marked Lunar terrain, was one of the launching stations which
had never been used. In the background loomed the nightmarish Tenerife
Mountains. And hovering above all in a sky of black velvet was a
shining, blue-green ball--the earth.

Carefully, Jeffrey placed the photograph in a large envelope and slid
it, with the stone, into his coat's inner pocket.

"They'll believe now," he murmured. "They ignored the letters, the
telegrams. Now, with proof, they'll believe. They'll learn what is a
lie and what is the truth. They'll learn who was _really_ first."

A moment later he was on the street, struggling to filter through the
crowd. For a few seconds he knew terror, because those in the crowd
had surrendered all individuality. They had become a single, automatic
entity, hypnotized by the tapestry of color and sound and responding
to it alone. The crowd closed in upon him like the tentacles of an
octopus, imprisoning him and thrusting him forward and back.

At last, panting, he broke free. He found a side street--one that would
not be invaded by the parade. He walked swiftly. Then, although breath
came hard, he ran.

       *       *       *       *       *

Carved above the entrance of the huge stone building were the words:

                         UNITED STATES BUREAU
                           OF INTERPLANETARY
                               RESEARCH

Jeffrey stopped to catch his breath. How many of his letters had
passed over that mountainous series of steps? How many, like those to
Congress, to the Pentagon and to the President, had been crumpled,
torn, tossed into waste baskets?

It didn't matter. He was doing now what he should have done a month
ago--appearing in person with his proof.

He lumbered up the stone steps. His watery eyes widened at the bright
murals in the vast foyer--murals of stars and planets, of rockets and
spacemen, all centered about a gigantic and symbolic pair of human
hands reaching upward.

Jeffrey squinted down the white, clean, cool halls.

So this was where spacemen of today lived, studied, worked,
experimented. How different from that battered quonset hut in the hot,
wind-burnt New Mexican desert.

"May I help you, sir?"

The voice snapped him back to reality.

He turned and saw a young man seated at a desk a short distance away.
The man was sleepy-eyed, with black, close-cropped hair and ears that
were too big. On the desk was a placard that said: _Officer of The Day:
Lieutenant Andrews_.

The lieutenant drummed his fingers on the desk. "Speak up, old timer.
What is it? If you want information on today's flight, just help
yourself to these folders."

"No, no." Jeffrey walked up to the desk, brushed away the folders.
"I--I want to see someone in authority. There's something I have to
tell them."

"I'm in charge. Go ahead and tell it to me."

Jeffrey trembled. "It's going to sound crazy. You might not believe--"

"Go ahead and tell it. Then I'll decide whether to believe."

Confidence came to Jeffrey. He touched the reassuring bulge of the
stone and the photograph in his pocket. Then he began to speak.

"Well, you've read how things were back in 1957. The world cut in half.
Communism on one side, Democracy on the other. Both sides threatening
the other. Both building faster and faster jets and bigger and bigger
H-bombs. People felt like they were walking on tight-ropes.

"In August of '57 the Russians announced that they had the biggest
H-bomb ever made. The President and his cabinet and the top brass met.
The Army Chief of Staff was already on record in saying there was no
perfect defense against an H-bomb attack. Radar nets, anti-aircraft
and fighter planes would take care of a lot of attacking bombers
or missiles, but some would probably get through. There had to be
something else--something as daring as the first A-bomb project back in
World War II.

"The answer was obvious: a _manned_ artificial satellite."

The lieutenant stiffened. He made a sucking noise with his lips.

"Yep," Jeffrey continued, "a manned satellite. Our scientists had
developed the tiny, unmanned 'mouse.' A full-scale version was
tougher--but possible.

"And a nation in control of such a satellite would watch over all
the world. From its near-zero gravity it could launch guided atomic
missiles to any point on the earth."

Jeffrey cleared his throat. His listener was still attentive.

"So Project Pandora began. Like the Manhattan Project, it was top
secret, because we didn't want the Russians to start like crazy on
their own Project. I never learned how many men were involved--probably
about 100,000. But all except maybe a hundred or so thought they were
working on new types of jets or fuels.

"A new town--Pandora City--sprang up in New Mexico for general
research. Really top secret stuff, like the construction of our
rockets, was handled in Hell Canyon, which probably still isn't on your
maps. You couldn't get there except by cargo-carrying helicopter.

"I was a guided missile man transferred from Point Mugu to the Canyon.
Entering that hell-hole was like being sentenced for life. We had our
movies and beer, but the sun and mountains were still there. I used to
look at those mountains and wonder if I dared try to escape. Then I
thought of the desert on the other side. There _was_ no escape--except
through death or by finishing the damn project.

"By the fall of '58 we had our fuel. Dilute monatomic
hydrogen--powerful as the guts of an H-bomb, but controllable, suitable
for atomic engines. Powered with that fuel, a rocket could rip through
the old seven-mile-a-second barrier like a knife cutting through tissue
paper.

"Then a new question came up. Was the artificial satellite the ideal
solution to our problem? Even at a height of a thousand miles, it could
be visible to Russian astronomers. Russian knowledge of our secret
could start off a Third World War. And, if the Russians developed their
own guided missile program, the satellite might be vulnerable.

"We'd developed an alloy of rare earths for our jet tubes, so there was
no reason why we couldn't hit the moon direct. A Lunar station could be
camouflaged, and launching platforms for missiles could be scattered.
Most important, the moon would give us utter secrecy."

Jeffrey's voice trailed. A cloud of memory seemed to drift before his
vision. "And--and I guess there was something else, too. We didn't want
to stop with just a satellite. We had the power to take space by the
nose and pull it around like a whipped dog. The first men to leave our
planet--think of those words. The first, the very first. The thought
makes you a little drunk."

He smiled. "The President, his cabinet, the top brass okayed our ideas.
So the moon it was!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Lieutenant Andrews rose, his mouth a tight, white line.

"Afraid we'll have to call it a day," he muttered. "It's time for me to
go off duty. Sorry."

"But--but your relief isn't here. You can't--"

"Sorry." The man's gaze avoided Jeffrey's face.

He moved swiftly, his tall body easing around the desk, then striding
down the hall.

Jeffrey was like a statue, an absurd, bulging-eyed statue with right
hand still raised in a climactic, melodramatic gesture.

"But I haven't finished!" he cried. "You haven't heard--"

The lieutenant marched away, oblivious to Jeffrey's pleading voice.
Abruptly, his bright uniform disappeared into one of the labyrinth's
many rooms.

Jeffrey was a fragile leaf mauled by winds of desperation. He dug
furiously into his coat's inner pocket.

"You haven't seen my proof!" he screamed.

There was no reply save the cold, hollow, hundred-tongued echo of his
own words.

Jeffrey looked down at his outstretched hands. They were holding the
faded photograph and the shining stone, offering them to the silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Outside, the city was like a merry-go-round whirling faster and faster.
Music had swelled to a dizzying crescendo. Colors were brighter in the
noon sunlight. Voices were louder, prayers stronger.

"Ten to one they don't make it," said a rat-faced man. "I'll take _all_
bets."

"They will not be alone," the solemn man in the black robe intoned to
his congregation. "For yea, though I walk through the valley of the
shadow of death...."

"Why must Daddy go up into the sky, Mama? Why?" asked the child.

"He's going to be a pioneer, dear. He's going to be one of the first to
go to the moon."

"But why, Mama? Why?"

The bearded man shouted, "The wrath of God will fall upon us and upon
our children and our children's children. Man was not meant--"

"We have our Marco Polo, our Columbus, our Wright Brothers and our
Lindbergh. Now, by the grace of God, we have our George Everson!"

"Step right up, folks! Get your souvenir programs here! And don't
forget your dark glasses for the take-off. Special today--only one
dollar!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A clock struck one.

"No," said the stiffly polite girl, "the city editor isn't in. No, our
reporters are covering the flight. Sorry."

A clock struck two.

"Sorry."

Jeffrey sighed. What else was there? The Research Bureau. The
Department of Defense, the Pentagon. _The Times_, _The Herald_, _The
Post_. He hadn't wanted to take his story to the newspapers, but they
had given him a last, futile hope. Now, even they had refused to listen.

There was still _The Mirror_. The twilight news. The love nests, the
exposés, the screaming headlines that most papers were saving for the
second coming of Christ.

Jeffrey found himself walking up dark, thinly carpeted stairs, pushing
a faded swinging door. Then someone was leading him forward. Sounds of
clacking typewriters and rustling papers filled the air.

The photograph and the moon-stone were in his hands. He was thrusting
them forward.

"This is my proof," he mumbled automatically.

For a long time his surroundings were like the terrain in a dimly
remembered dream. Then hands helped him into a chair.

A deep voice grunted at him. "Okay, proof of what?"

Jeffrey blinked. His brain fought to break through the wall of
weariness that enclosed it. He saw that the man before him was
middle-aged, balding, small-eyed. His trace of a smile was not
unpleasant.

"What's it all about, fellow?" the man asked, leaning back in his chair.

_Thank you, God_, thought Jeffrey, _that I have another chance._

He began again. 1957, the H-bomb, Project Pandora. Lord, if he could
only show this man the images that still hung in his memory!

But how could you capture the dizzying blackness of space, the hypnotic
silver of stars, and recreate their magic in mere words? How feeble
were words. They were like broken fingers trying to carry sand.

Nevertheless, the man listened. Jeffrey came to the words, "So the moon
it was!" And even then the man said nothing. Jeffrey went on:

"Our first rocket was ready by the summer of '59. We named it the
_Marilyn_--after Marilyn Monroe, the top glamour gal of those days.
And I was in the ship's first crew.

"Our take-off wasn't like this circus today. No music, no speeches, no
parades. We had a shot of brandy in the morning. We shook hands with
our friends and puffed on cigarettes and the C.O. said a prayer. Then
we took off."

Jeffrey weighed words and memories in his mind. "It'd take me a year to
tell about how space looks and how the moon is; and how you feel when
all the things you love are in a cloud-wrapped ball 240,000 miles away.
Or how it feels to see your buddies slip through the paper-thin crust
that covers parts of the moon and go down into nothingness, just as if
the hand of God wiped them out of the universe.

"Anyway, we hit the moon. The ship stayed long enough for us to build
a dome. Then we split the crew in half. Five stayed, the rest shuttled
back to Earth for more supplies. Three months later the second rocket,
the _June Randy_, was ready, and life got a little easier. We began
to get an occasional case of beer and mail from home. Our families
thought they were writing to Pandora City. To think that those little
three-cent letters would go all the way to Luna would have seemed a
lunatic's dream to them.

"By the summer of '61 Project Pandora was completed. We had two domes
and four launching stations, each a hundred miles apart. The missiles
on the launching platforms were like those beds of nails the yogis are
supposed to lie on--only a hundred times bigger. And each nail was a
uranium-lithium-tritium-headed rocket.

"1961 slipped by, and '62 and '63. There were a few aborted revolutions
on earth, a few moments of tension, but no war."

A veil of loneliness seemed to fall over his vision, separating him
from his listener.

"Go ahead," the man prompted him.

"Well, new faces appeared in our crews. The older fellows were given
memory-washes so they wouldn't start blabbing when they returned to
Earth. Psychiatry was pretty primitive in those days. The treatment
wasn't much more than hypnosis, creating an artificial psychic block in
their minds. After a while, it seemed like men were coming and going
like figures on a treadmill--but, me, I stayed on."

"You stayed on? Why?"

Jeffrey thought for an instant. "Because there were two kinds of
loneliness for us. One was being on the moon, in silence and emptiness.
The other was being on Earth, in the midst of life and knowing the
biggest secret in the world and not being able to talk about it. And of
the two kinds of loneliness, to me, the last was the worst. So I stayed
on the _Marilyn_."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jeffrey tried to keep his voice calm, his manner confident.

"Then came the Russian Revolution of '74, the rise of democracy behind
the crumbling Iron Curtain. The rest of the world watched and waited.
We kept those launching platforms ready--just in case. But by '76,
there was no doubt about it. Communism was over and done. The world was
at peace.

"And with the arrival of peace, man's energies had to be directed into
new channels. Till now, the government had quietly discouraged any talk
about space flight. But now man craved adventure. Newspapers and public
opinion began to beat the drum for that first flight to the moon."

He chuckled softly. "The President must have been tearing his hair out.
What the hell was he going to do with Project Pandora? The Russians
mustn't know that for fifteen years our missiles had been ready to
blast them to eternity. The old hates had been buried. They couldn't be
allowed to rise again.

"So Project Pandora became Project Garbage. The domes and platforms
were dismantled and carried back to Pandora City. The moon was the
biggest garbage dump in the Solar System, but it had to be cleaned up
to the last beer can and cigarette butt. It had to become virgin again,
ready to receive what Earth would later call the first pioneers of
space. And it was then, when discipline was low, that I smuggled out
the moon-stone and the photo.

"Everybody got the memory-wash--from the President on down. I was a
civilian again with a nice pension. For the first couple of years I
couldn't remember a thing. I only knew I'd done secret work for the
government. I'd look at my photo and stone and wonder where I got them.

"But gradually my memory came back. Maybe it was because of the photo,
or maybe because I'd been on Luna and the _Marilyn_ so much longer than
the others.

"Last year I got mad when Everson announced plans to hit the moon.
His name was in headlines every day. He was becoming a hero without
even leaving the ground. And there were a hundred men whose bodies were
already lost on Luna. They were the real heroes, the real pioneers.
This celebration today--it's a mockery. I want the world to know the
truth."

       *       *       *       *       *

For the space of a minute the small-eyed man was silent. His fingers
toyed with the stone and the photograph.

Finally he murmured, "Suppose I publish your story. How much do you
want for it?"

To Jeffrey, the words were like April sunshine streaking into a
cobwebbed winter attic.

"You--you want to use the story? You believe me?"

"I didn't say I believe it. I don't give a damn whether it's true or
not. My job is to sell newspapers. I asked how much you want for it."

"Nothing," Jeffrey said softly.

The small-eyed man grunted. "We could flood the city with the afternoon
edition. People are buying anything with a moon angle. The Russians
wouldn't shout for joy, but there shouldn't be any harm done at this
late date."

His eyes brightened. "We might get away with it. We've got your stone.
We could demand that Everson locate the place where you got it and
either prove or disprove your story. Why, that'd be good for months!"

He laughed. "What a damper we'll put on _this_ celebration! We'll make
the city seem like a morgue. It's a dirty, lousy trick, but by God
it'll sell papers!"

Jeffrey leaned forward, squinting. "A dirty, lousy trick? What do you
mean?"

"Skip it." The man's enthusiasm was rising. He was like fizzing soda in
a thumb-stoppered, shaken bottle. "We got to get this story in print.
Hey, Marty! Get the dicto-typer over here! I've been waiting all my
life to yell stop those presses. Marty! _Stop those goddamn presses!_"

"What did you mean?" Jeffrey insisted. "How can telling people the
truth be a dirty, lousy trick?"

The small-eyed man laughed again. "You don't think folks'll _like_ this
story, do you? You don't think they'll feel like celebrating when they
read this, do you? It's a cinch they won't start cheering _you_ for
what you did almost twenty years ago! Say, wait'll Everson sees that
moon pic plastered on my front page. _There's_ an angle! A pic of
Everson's expression! Hey, Marty! Get me--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Restlessly, Jeffrey rose and shuffled to a window. One of the city's
myriad parades, like a battalion of colored ants, was streaming down
the street.

The small-eyed man yelled, "Come on, let's have that story again! This
time it's for publication."

Jeffrey didn't answer. Odd thoughts were stirring in deep recesses of
his mind.

"Come on! Let's have that story!"

Jeffrey stared out the window, a far-away gaze in his eyes. "Do--do
you suppose I was the only one who remembered? There must be others. I
couldn't be the only one."

"Sure, there could be others--if your yarn is true. Maybe they've tried
to tell and nobody believed 'em. Or maybe they're keeping quiet. Maybe
they don't want to make dopes out of Everson and his men. Maybe they
want to keep 'em heroes. Now, gimme that story!" He flicked a switch on
the dicto-typer.

Words echoed in Jeffrey's brain. _Maybe they don't want to make dopes
out of Everson and his men. Maybe they want to keep 'em heroes. It's
a cinch they won't start cheering you for what you did almost twenty
years ago._

The world has need of heroes, he thought. There's Luna, and then there
are Venus and Mars and Jupiter and all the others; and, always, there
are the stars. And, between, there are miles and years of darkness and
loneliness, and courage is a candle flame too easily extinguished.
Mankind will need songs of daring and tales of heroes and signposts to
guide the way to infinity. You can't make heroes out of men whose very
names are forgotten. You can't make heroes out of tired old bones.

Jeffrey frowned as the hum of presses echoed in his ears.

The great headlines would descend upon the enchanted city like a black
tidal wave. They would swirl through the streets, devour the bright
color, absorb the gay sound, suck the joy into dark waters of doubt and
suspicion.

The small-eyed man was shouting at him. He did not hear.

_After all_, Jeffrey told himself, _this is for you. It's not for
Everson and his men, really. It's for the pioneers, for those who dare
to be first. The eyes are not on you, and the voices do not speak to
you. Yet all this, really, is for you--for you were the first. Would
you destroy this day that is yours?_

A voice was swearing at him.

What a day it was! Why, it must be the greatest in the history of
Earth. It was a day for all history books everywhere, always. It was a
shame that the minutes were piling one upon the other so rapidly. How
wonderful if they could be bottled and sealed like sweet perfume, to be
dispensed slowly, a scent a month, a drop a year.

Hands were tugging at his arm. He shook himself free. He turned back to
the desk, seized the moon-stone and the photograph, replaced them in
his pocket.

Silently, head high, he strode past the naked, astonished faces.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dusk. A silence blanketed the take-off field. The seconds hung in the
air like bits of fire and ice.

Captain George Everson, the man with no legs, waved to the multitude
as he entered his silver rocket.

Presently there was a sound of thunder, and the land trembled. Flame
belched from the stern of the _Lunar Lady_. Slowly, the rocket began to
rise. The multitude drew back, like frightened red ghosts in the fiery
glare from the grumbling jets.

A greater avalanche of flame spewed from the rocket. A furnace-hot wind
shrilled over the field, lashing at hair and clothing, at banner and
flag.

And suddenly the _Lunar Lady_ was gone. It was a needle of fire high in
the twilight sky, a vanishing target for a million narrowed eyes.

A hushed, reverent murmur rose from the field.

A small girl in a pink party dress tugged at her mother's skirt.

"Look, Mommy," she whispered. "Look at that funny old man. He keeps
saying, 'This is for you,' and he's crying and laughing at the same
time!"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FIRST ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
