The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Stilled Patter, by James E. Gunn

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Stilled Patter

Author: James E. Gunn

Release Date: February 24, 2022 [eBook #67487]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STILLED PATTER ***





                          The Stilled Patter

                           By JAMES E. GUNN

                        Illustrated by STALLMAN

                   _The age-old battle of the sexes
                   may yet be the deadliest of all!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Infinity Science Fiction, June 1956.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


George Washington was the father of his country.

I am not George Washington. My name is Andrew Jones, and it is because
of me there will be no more Joneses in the world. There will be, in
fact, no more anybody.

This is the end of the world.

It did not come through fire or ice, with a bang or a whimper, from
solar catastrophe or man's suicidal mis-use of atomic power or any
of the other fearful possibilities with which the Sunday-supplement
writers once terrified us. It came through the exposure of an age-old
conspiracy.

I did it. My excuse is the eternal excuse of the scientist: I sought
the truth. How it was used was not my concern.

But that it should have led to the depopulation of the Earth concerns
me, as it must concern every man, and I have an unshakable feeling of
guilt.

Perhaps I write this now in the hope that I may somehow purge myself. I
know that it will never be read.

The linen wick gutters in the saucer of melted tallow. It casts strange
shadows on the cellar wall. Sometimes I think that they are the ghosts
of children come to haunt me, the ghosts of all the little children who
will never be born.

But this is not what I sat down to write while I waited for Lindsay to
return. What is keeping Lindsay? He should be back by now.

I will begin again.

My name is Andrew Jones, and today, by my figures, is October 3, 1969.
The weather is turning cold here, and soon we must go looking for
another hiding place. My joints are getting old; the damp has seeped
into them. I long for the year-long warmth of California or Florida,
but those areas are still crowded and deadly.

Someone would recognize me.

I think we will try a powerhouse again this winter. Often they have
supplies of coal large enough to last us through the cold weather
without extra foraging.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cataclysm began in 1954, June 13 to be exact. That was the day my
second child was born, a boy we named Kevin.

It is surprising that a man who was the father of two children should
accuse himself of depopulating the Earth. And yet it is because I was
the father of two children that it happened.

Pre-natal care of mothers and post-natal care of infants were
subjects of compelling interest in those days, arriving monthly in
the burgeoning women's magazines and annually in the proliferous
child-care manuals. Pediatricians and mothers besieged parents with
advice, and we consumed everything with catholic appetite: logical,
illogical, sensible, insensible, nonsensical, self-contradictory.

They kept us on our toes, strung as taut as Stradivarius violins,
afraid to act for fear we would do the wrong thing, afraid not to act
for fear inaction would be disastrous. Pediatricians and mothers,
always the same authors. Never were there any articles on the care of
mother and child by a father, only by what I came to think of as the
vested interests.

I was slow, I admit; but what father has not been slow? Who, if he had
not been slow, would be a father?

The books and the articles would have been troublesome enough if the
information they imparted had been accurate. But slowly I became aware
that they were subtly interwoven with mis-statements.

I raveled them out, I categorized them. I counted five different kinds
before I convinced myself.

A mother published this: "One baby takes up all your time--two can't
take any more."

The fallacy was obvious. A certain amount of housework was inescapable.
If the mother was unable to do the work, what happened to it?

Answer: somebody else did it.

Who? Even in the abundance of those days, most of us couldn't afford
nurses, maids, cooks, laundresses, or cleaning women. The era of the
poor relation who came to help out for a few months was long past.

Who did the work, then? The father, that's who.

I stared deep into the shocking chasm between the mental processes of
men and women.

I studied the statement again. There was no mis-statement at all--if
you granted the hidden premise and didn't boggle on the implication. It
was perfectly valid.

The hidden premise was that women did all the housework. But that
hadn't been true for a generation. The husband-father had been drafted
into home service, and there was no discharge for him short of death or
total disability.

The latter was hard to prove.

But the implication was the deadly thing: in the consideration of
second child, a father's time and labor counted for nothing.

I remembered a shaggy little story about a farmer who held up his hog
to let it eat the corn off the stalk. "Doesn't it take a long time to
fatten up a hog that way?" exclaimed the efficiency expert.

"Shore," said the farmer, "but what's time to a hog?"

And what, in a woman's eyes, was time to a father?

The second type of mis-statement was a pure omission. The thing
the baby books didn't mention was that most women felt ten times
worse during their second pregnancies.[1] At this time life became
almost unbearable for them--and it was, as a consequence, completely
unbearable for their husbands.

    [Footnote 1: Editor's note: This may help explain the size of the
    average American family: 1.6 children.--W. M.]

Not one baby book or article mentioned that fact. That it was a fact I
proved by a personal survey. Every mother questioned revealed that she
felt horrible during her second pregnancy. She was surprised that my
wife and I didn't know this.

I was not surprised. Nobody ever mentioned it, that is why we didn't
know. I think it was at this time I first asked myself: _Is there a
subconscious conspiracy to keep this kind of information from leaking
out?_

It wasn't important that women didn't know this. They had selective
memories (proof of this was that mankind lasted as long as it did).
If they were maternally inclined (as most of them were at one time or
another), the disadvantages of pregnancy faded into a sort of merciful
blur.

If there was a conspiracy, it was aimed at fathers. It was intended to
lull them into the logical supposition that conditions usually improve
and that experience is the great teacher. Pure delusion! With women,
things are always worse, and they are born with all the knowledge they
will ever need.

       *       *       *       *       *

Babies could be divided into two kinds: "most" and "occasional."
Consider, for instance, the following quotation: "Most babies in the
early months sleep from feeding to feeding; an occasional baby won't
fall into this pattern but insists on being sociable after his meals."

The first time I read that I supposed that this business of "most" and
"occasional" was a statistical matter. That was my fatal mistake. If
there was any statistical backing for that statement, I never found it.

In my experience, the chances were nine out of ten that--try as you
would--you would have an "occasional" baby.

We did. We had two of them.

The fourth type of mis-statement was the false generalization. It was
said, much too often: "A full baby is a sleepy baby."

That is a re-statement of the quotation above.

I sat down with a pencil and paper and figured it out. A small infant
took half an hour to finish a bottle. If he ate five times a day, he
would have spent 21-1/2 hours asleep out of every 24.

A little farther on I would read something like: "If a baby wakes up
early, he is not getting enough to eat." I drew up a schedule:

    _Baby wakes up (being hungry)._

    _Baby gets fed (all he can hold)._

    _Baby is sleepy (being fed)._

    _Baby goes to sleep (being sleepy)._

    _Baby sleeps until next feeding (being full)._

I didn't recognize the baby. Who could? He wasn't my child or anybody
else's. He was the pediatrician's pipe-dream child.

I looked at it another way: if the baby slept except when being
fed, when did it get the baths, orange juice, vitamins, cereal, and
everything else the pediatricians prescribed?

Hoist by their own petards!

The fifth type of mis-statement was the impossible ideal. I tried this
one for logic: "Babies should not be allowed to cry before feeding."[2]

    [Footnote 2: Editor's note: This led to swallowing air which made
    gas bubbles; gas bubbles caused colic.--W. M.]

Had those doctors ever tried to keep a hungry child from crying?

Hungry children cried. It was their nature. Some of them--my kind for
instance--cried very hard. And children--even pipe-dream children--woke
up hungry.

Warming a bottle to drinkable temperature took time, at least five
minutes and sometimes ten. Meanwhile, in spite of everything that
anyone could do, the baby was crying. He would not he cajoled, walked,
teased, patted, jollied, scolded, or argued into accepting any
substitute for his formula. With him, it was food or nothing.

For horror, I had a favorite scene: the mother alone, rushing from
baby to bottle, from bottle to baby, one screaming, the other cold,
frantic with the pediatrician's admonitions, and then both too hot....

I would not have had it on my conscience for all the royalties in
America! At least I have saved the world that.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were more mis-statements, but those were enough. I did what any
man, any scientist, would have done. I gave my findings to the world.
They were published under the title: "What the Baby Books Won't Tell
You." The article stirred up immediate controversy.

It is not enough to uncover a conspiracy; you must find a motive. I had
discovered the motive behind the Great Conspiracy.

Baby books were not written to teach parents how to care for their
children; baby books were written to sell baby books. And magazines
published articles about babies to sell magazines to mothers.

Valid reasons. If they had not existed, there would have been no baby
books, no women's magazines. But this had far-reaching consequences:
the market for baby books and women's magazines was the great,
proliferating population of new parents. If the awful truth about
parenthood were published, if these hardy, ingenuous souls were
discouraged, something quite startling would happen to the market: it
would disappear.

There were attempts at suppression on all levels, but the truth was out
and nothing could stop its spread. Secret printing presses turned out
reprints by the millions; they were passed from hand to hand. Fathers
whispered the word to husbands; husbands passed it on to bachelor
friends.

The word raced around the world.

It would not have been so disastrous if Lindsay McPherson had not
simultaneously perfected his contraceptive pill out of a Southwestern
plant named _Lithospermum ruderale_. For the first time, a
contraceptive was safe, cheap, and convenient--and 100% effective in
reducing _male_ fertility.

Birth control was in the hands of the men.

Billions of the tiny pills were turned out. Enemy nations sowed them
over each other's territory in boxes containing translations of my
article. Men cached them away, carried them in money belts, hollowed
out hiding places in the heels of shoes....

Births dropped suddenly. Almost overnight, the maternity wards were
depopulated. Hospitals went broke, or began advertising for patrons,
sick or well.

The makers of baby foods, baby apparel, and baby accessories went next,
then the women's magazines when they lost their advertising. In a few
years, the condition hit the schools; one by one they closed their
doors.

It was a creeping paralysis. The toy makers and sellers collapsed. The
clothing industry couldn't survive longer. The shoe-makers were hardest
hit. Food consumption dropped. All over the country, farmers went
broke....

By comparison, the Great Depression seemed like a boom.

By 1965 the end was in sight. Society disintegrated. The cities were
deserted; they burned for years. From a mechanical-agricultural
civilization, the world returned to the stone age in one decade.

People went in packs for protection. There were two kinds of them:
packs of men hunting for food and packs of women hunting for men.

Soon, as the women grow too old for child-bearing, the race of Man will
be doomed.

I did it. I am guilty. Lindsay helped, but I am the one. But how was I
to know that society--that human life itself--was founded on a basic
deception?

I wonder what is keeping Lindsay. He should be back by now.

    _Editor's note: This manuscript was found in a cellar of a house in
    a Midwestern city; it is presented here partly for its historical
    interest, but chiefly for your amusement._

    _Mr. Wilma Masters (the former Andrew Jones) was found in the same
    cellar. Our hunting party had taken Lindsay McPherson some time
    before, and he had directed us promptly to the cellar. Men are like
    that._

    _As is the custom, the men were stripped, carefully searched, and
    sent to the premarital barracks to wait for some girl's proposal.
    Our readers will be happy to learn that they are both back in
    service._

    _Never underestimate the power of a woman._

                                                      --_Wilma Masters_

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STILLED PATTER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
