The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Fool, by David Mason

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Fool

Author: David Mason

Release Date: February 25, 2022 [eBook #67497]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FOOL ***





                               The FOOL

                            By DAVID MASON

                         Illustrated by WESTON

                   _The Tarchiki were the universe's
                    worst pupils--and as a teacher,
                  Duncan was a first-rate carpenter!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Infinity Science Fiction, August 1956.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Duncan? No, he wasn't the Agent just before you. He was here in
2180--oh, a good thirty years back, Earth-time. The natives say
hundreds of years, but they're a short-lived lot. The way they cut
each other's throats, it's a wonder any of them live out the life span
they've got, anyway.

I came out when Duncan did--knew him pretty well, as well as anybody
could. A perfect fool. Knowing him was a real education. Do anything
the other way from the way Duncan did it, and you'd be all right.

You wouldn't think it to look at him. Well set-up man, around thirty
when he got here, intelligent face, good talker, had a degree--but
a fool. Seemed as if he couldn't do anything right. He told me once
that he'd been married, and that it had broken up. He more or less
implied that his wife had gotten sick of little things--broken dishes,
tactless remarks, carelessness. You wouldn't think that would be
enough to break up a marriage, but you've got no idea how that sort of
thing can add up.

I was clerking for him then. I swear I did all the work. I had to. He
couldn't add, couldn't file a record, and couldn't have found one if
he'd managed somehow to put it away. I took Agent's inventories, I did
most of the trading with the native chiefs, I did everything. Duncan
just bumbled around the post, or listened to records, or wrote those
silly, hopeless, letters to his ex-wife. He was trying to get her to
come back to him. How do I know? Well, who do you think worked the
subspace transmitter, as well as doing everything else?

The native thing really annoyed me, though, because it was dangerous.
You know the Tarchiki. They look human enough, except for minor
details. When it comes to a Tarchik female I'll overlook the green skin
and the pointed ears every time. But they aren't entirely like us. They
have a liking for war and torture that's really sickening.

Our ancestors? Oh, now, really ... you're talking just like Duncan.
That was always his apology for them. He said our own ancestors were
pretty bad, too. Certainly they were, but I can't see any ancestor of
mine acting the way a Tarchik does with a captured enemy. And they
haven't the slightest sense of sportsmanship, either. They'd rather
jump you from ambush than fight in the open, and they won't fight at
all if the enemy's stronger than they are. That's why they've never
made any serious attempt to do in all the Earthmen on their world.
That, and greed; they get very good deals from us, and they know it.

Anyway, I'm sure none of my ancestors ever acted like that.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Duncan was always ready to forgive a Tarchik anything. That used
to upset the hell out of them, too, because they expect to be punished
when they're caught at anything. They don't understand our reluctance
to kill, but they respect a Patrolman's shock gun, and when they get
caught stealing or taking each other's tails they know they're going
to get a few months in quod, or what they hate much worse, a public
flogging. If they didn't get punished, they'd assume it was weakness on
our part. Just like kids.

Anyway, there was Duncan, holding long confabs with the Tarchiki,
trying to teach them some sort of elementary ethics. Naturally, it
didn't take at all. They listened, because they love long speeches, but
they never acted on what he said.

He used to tell them that if they stopped chopping each other up and
hanging up the rows of tails as war trophies, their lives would be a
lot pleasanter. They used to nod and applaud, but Duncan never caught
on to the simple fact that they thought this was meant to be a joke.
_They_ didn't think their lives weren't pleasant enough. After all,
look at their situation. They've got plenty to eat, without working
hard for it, plenty of time on their hands--why shouldn't they keep
down their surplus population? They don't know any other way, except
breaking up their eggs, and they only do that to enemy tribes.

While he was at it, Duncan tried to tell them all about love and things
like that. Oh, no, not sex. If there's anything a Tarchik doesn't
know about _that_, there's no Earthman going to teach him. I mean the
way they treat their women. A Tarchik woman's nothing but a piece of
property as far as sex goes, but there's some kind of curious maternal
inheritance thing--anyway, it's as funny as hell to see a big Tarchik
buck get down and bump his head in front of his mother, and his aunts,
and all his other female ancestors. That's the one thing he's really
afraid of. But, till she gets to be a mother, a woman leads a fairly
rough life, getting passed around as a kind of prize of war, working
harder than the men, all that.

So Duncan wanted them to be a bit chivalrous to their women. Share the
work, all kinds of things like that. You know what they thought of that
idea--another Earthman's joke.

But the funniest thing of all, to them, was his idea about the kids.
Naturally, a Tarchik pup's no use to its father till it's a bit grown.
Then, if it's a boy, the old man teaches it to drink _smassi_ and file
its teeth, and go out ambushing and cutting tails with the other noble
savages. If it's a girl, the father looks around for a suitable buyer
as soon as its breasts are grown, and hopes for the best price possible.

To the mothers, though, the kids represent a kind of investment, since
custom directs the first loyalties to the mother's clan. So they treat
them pretty well, although a bit casually, since they litter by twos
and at least once a year.

Anyway, Duncan seemed to think highly of kids. Can't imagine why, since
he never had any of his own. He used to run a kind of school for them.
Taught them all kinds of things a Tarchik's got no use for at all, made
toys for them--badly, naturally; he couldn't have cut his initials in
a tree without slicing his thumb. But what he couldn't make in the way
of school stuff, he imported from Earth. Cost him his entire salary,
except for what he spent on those futile letters to his wife.

Those kids were fond of him, I suppose--as fond of him as a Tarchik
ever gets of anything. They even kept the school foolishness going
awhile afterward, but I think it's gone now.

Anything that fool Duncan said, the Tarchiki thought was a great joke.
They wouldn't have hurt his feelings for anything, for fear he'd quit
telling them tall stories. They told him quite a few things, too. He
wrote it all down, in dead earnest, as if their fairy tales and drum
poems had any value. I sent the whole lot off to his wife, after it
happened. I think it got lost in transit--I never heard from her,
anyway. Or she may have thrown it all away. I can't imagine what else
you could do with such a pile of nonsense.

As a matter of fact, that's what led up to it--those damned legends.
Duncan got interested in their religion. Never do that, boy. Let 'em
all have their ghost stories and wooden gods, and never fool around
with their idea of what makes the planet go round.

The Tarchiks have a lot of small time fetishes, but they also have
one big god, a fat one made out of stone, out in the jungle over near
Mount Clarke. Every so often they all go up in a body and pay him a
visit, and they take along any spare pups, usually extra girl children
or prisoners from other tribes. This god--Kachan, his name is, I
think--likes children too. He likes them best roasted, like birds on a
spit. Charming deity.

Anyway, when Duncan found out about Kachan, he got very upset. He went
blazing out there to Mount Clarke, and he blew Kachan all to bits with
a grenade. The Tarchiki didn't care for that, naturally.

About a week later, Duncan was on his way over to the big village near
here, to give his Tarchik kids another arithmetic lesson, I suppose.
Old Stancha--he was the local religious big shot, a kind of High
Priest--threw a spear from the bushes, Tarchik fashion, and nailed
Duncan very neatly. Nailed, yes. That's the way we found him, with his
back against a tree.

Just another case of a man's foolishness catching up with him. But
Duncan hasn't stopped giving us trouble yet, dead or not. First thing
that happened was that old Stancha came in to the post, demanding to
be executed. He claimed he'd made a big mistake killing Duncan, the
biggest mistake of his life. I never could figure out what he meant--it
seemed to have something to do with what Duncan said to him just before
he died.

Well, if Stancha had kept his mouth shut, we'd have had no case at
all, which would have been just fine with me. I was Agent, in Duncan's
place, and I was out to see to it that business stayed good and got
better. Can't annoy the natives by executing their high priest and
expect good trade. But I couldn't very well let Stancha go, either,
once he'd confessed. So I had him tried, all proper and correct, and
executed him in due form.

Next thing I knew, the Tarchiks were putting Kachan back together
again. They were all up there, building a great big new version, and
having a first class party at the same time. These parties generally
lead to a tail-hunting expedition, so I expected some trouble. But it
didn't, this time.

There was plenty of noise, though. The Tarchiki never do anything
quietly, and this seemed to be an occasion. What with drums, bagpipes,
wailing and howling, there wasn't a bird would roost for twenty miles
around.

When they got all through, I went up to look over the new statue, out
of curiosity, and because I'd heard that they hadn't sacrificed a
single pup. I thought there must be something queer about Kachan Number
Two. There was.

It was Duncan. They'd given him a tail, and he looked more like a
Tarchik than an Earthman, but the face was unmistakable. They aren't
half bad carvers, you know; and they'd really spread themselves this
time. The thing was forty feet tall, and it stood on a rock platform,
with some words carved in that lettering Duncan had taught them to use.
The words were something Duncan was supposed to have said as he was
dying.

I never could read that stuff really well; all I got out of the thing
was that Duncan was forgiving the old murderer, because he didn't know
what he was doing. Pure nonsense, of course, but you don't expect a
dying man to make sense, and particularly not Duncan. But it seems
those words were what had caused all the to-do.

I found the story in one of those ballads Duncan had collected. Seems
that the Tarchiki had been expecting a great teacher to show up,
who'd do all sorts of wonderful things for them. Nothing unusual; all
primitives have some story like that. But there was something else.

The idea was that if the Tarchiki listened to this teacher, he'd make
them the most important people in the whole world; in the universe,
in fact, from the way the thing sounded. Just how, wasn't specified.
But if they should let him be killed, they would know who he had been
because of his last words, forgiving them. Naturally, they fitted
Duncan right in; forgiving anybody would be the least likely idea in
any Tarchik's mind if he were being speared.

So the Tarchiki think they've made a terrible mistake, and they seem
bent on spending the rest of time making up for it. It's the leading
religion now, and it's the biggest joke I've ever come across. Poor
Duncan, wrong-headed as he was about nearly everything else, had a bit
of sense in that department; he never had any religious nonsense in him.

Anyway, it shows you, doesn't it? I've always said you can learn a
little from practically anything. You keep Duncan in mind, any time you
get to feeling too soft on these natives. He might be a god to these
Tarchiki, but I'll tell you the real test of whether a man's got any
sense; he's dead, I'm alive, and you're alive. That's enough proof for
me.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FOOL ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
