The Project Gutenberg eBook of Juke-Box, by Woodrow Wilson Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Juke-Box

Author: Woodrow Wilson Smith

Release Date: May 17, 2022 [eBook #68107]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan, Alex White & the online
             Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at
             https://www.pgdpcanada.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JUKE-BOX ***





                                JUKE-BOX

                           By Henry Kuttner
                      Writing under the pseudonym
                          Woodrow Wilson Smith

              _Nobody Loves Me, wails Jerry Foster—until
             a mechanical music-maker decides everything’s
                       just Moonlight and Roses_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Thrilling Wonder Stories, February 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Jerry Foster told the bartender that nobody loved him. The bartender,
with the experience of his trade, said that Jerry was mistaken, and how
about another drink.

“Why not?” said the unhappy Mr. Foster, examining the scanty contents of
his wallet. “‘I’ll take the daughter of the vine to spouse. Nor heed the
music of a distant drum.’ That’s Omar.”

“Sure,” the bartender said surprisingly. “But you want to look out you
don’t go out by the same door that in you went. No brawls allowed here.
This isn’t East Fifth, chum.”

“You may call me chum,” Foster said, reverting to the main topic, “but
you don’t mean it. I’m nobody’s pal. Nobody loves me.”

“What about that babe you brought in last night?”

Foster tested his drink. He was a good-looking, youngish man with slick
blond hair and a rather hazy expression in his blue eyes.

“Betty?” he murmured. “Well, the fact is, a while ago I was down at the
Tom-Tom with Betty and this redhead came along. So I ditched Betty. Then
the redhead iced me. Now I’m lonely, and everyone hates me.”

“You shouldn’t of ditched Betty, maybe,” the bartender suggested.

“I’m fickle,” Foster said, tears springing to his eyes. “I can’t help
it. Women are my downfall. Gimme another drink and tell me your name.”

“Austin.”

“Austin. Well, Austin, I’m nearly in trouble. Did you notice who won the
fifth at Santa Anita yesterday?”

“Pig’s Trotters, wasn’t it?”

“Yes,” Foster said, “but I laid my dough right on the nose of White
Flash. That’s why I’m here. Sammy comes around to this joint now,
doesn’t he?”

“That’s right.”

“I’m lucky,” Foster said. “I got the money to pay him. Sammy is a hard
man when you don’t pay off.”

“I wouldn’t know,” the bartender said. “Excuse me.”

He moved off to take care of a couple of vodka collinses.

“So you hate me too,” Foster said, and, picking up his drink, wandered
away from the bar.

He was surprised to see Betty sitting alone in a booth, watching him.
But he was not at all surprised to see that her blond hair, her limpid
eyes, her pink-and-white skin had lost all attraction for him. She bored
him. Also, she was going to make a nuisance of herself.

Foster ignored the girl and went further back, to where a bulky oblong
object was glowing in polychromatic colors against the far wall. It was
what the manufacturers insist on terming an automatic phonograph, in
spite of the more aptly descriptive word juke-box.

This was a lovely juke-box. It had lots of lights and colors. Moreover,
it wasn’t watching Foster, and it kept its mouth shut.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Foster draped himself over the juke-box and patted its sleek sides.

“You’re my girl,” he announced. “You’re beautiful. I love you madly, do
you hear? Madly.”

He could feel Betty’s gaze on his back. He swigged his drink and
smoothed the juke-box’s flanks, glibly protesting his sudden affection
for the object. Once he glanced around. Betty was starting to get up.

Foster hastily found a nickel in his pocket and slipped it into the
coin-lever, but before he could push it in, a stocky, dark man wearing
horn-rimmed glasses entered the bar, nodded at Foster, and moved quickly
to a booth where a fat person in tweeds was sitting. There was a short
consultation, during which money changed hands, and the stocky man made
a note in a small book he brought from his pocket.

Foster took out his wallet. He had had trouble with Sammy before, and
wanted no more. The bookie was insistent on his pound of flesh. Foster
counted his money, blinked, and counted it again, while his stomach fell
several feet. Either he had been short-changed, or he had lost some
dough. He was short.

Sammy wouldn’t like that.

Forcing his fogged brain to think, Foster wondered how he could gain
time. Sammy had already seen him. If he could duck out the back.

It had become altogether too silent in the bar. He needed noise to cover
his movements. He saw the nickel in the juke-box’s coin-lever and
hastily pushed it in.

Money began to spew out of the coin return slot.

Foster got his hat under the slot almost instantly. Quarters, dimes, and
nickels popped out in a never-ending stream. The juke-box broke into
song. A needle scratched over the black disc. The torchy mourning of “My
Man” came out sadly. It covered the tinkling of the coins as they filled
Foster’s hat.

After a while the money stopped coming out of the juke-box. Foster stood
there, thanking his personal gods, as he saw Sammy moving toward him.
The bookie glanced at Foster’s hat and blinked.

“Hi, Jerry. What gives?”

“I hit a jackpot,” Foster said.

“Not on the juke-box!”

“No, down at the Onyx,” Foster said, naming a private club several
blocks away. “Haven’t had a chance to get these changed into bills yet.
Want to help me out?”

“I’m no cash register,” Sammy said. “I’ll take mine in green.”

The juke-box stopped playing “My Man” and broke into “Always.” Foster
put his jingling hat on top of the phonograph and counted out bills. He
didn’t have enough, but he made the balance up out of quarters he fished
from the hat.

“Thanks,” Sammy said. “Too bad your nag didn’t make it.”

“‘_With a love that’s true, always_—’” the juke-box sang fervently.

“Can’t be helped,” Foster said. “Maybe next time I’ll hit ’em.”

“Want anything on Oaklawn?”

“‘_When the things you’ve planned, need a helping hand_—’”

Foster had been leaning on the juke-box. On the last two words, a
tingling little shock raced through him. Those particular two words
jumped out of nothing, impinged on the surface of his brain, and sank in
indelibly, like the stamp of a die. He couldn’t hear anything else. They
echoed and re-echoed.

“Uh—helping hand,” he said hazily. “Helping—”

“A sleeper?” Sammy said. “Okay, Helping Hand in the third, at Oaklawn.
The usual?”

The room started to turn around. Foster managed to nod. After a time he
discovered that Sammy was gone. He saw his drink on the juke-box, next
to his hat, and swallowed the cool liquid in three quick gulps. Then he
bent and stared into the cryptic innards of the automatic phonograph.

“It can’t be,” he whispered. “I’m drunk. But not drunk enough. I need
another shot.”

A quarter rolled out of the coin-return slot, and Foster automatically
caught it.

“No!” he gulped. “Oh-h-h!” He stuffed his pockets with the booty from
the hat, held on to his glass with the grip of a drowning man, and went
toward the bar. On the way he felt someone touch his sleeve.

“Jerry,” Betty said. “Please.”

He ignored her. He went on to the bar and ordered another drink.

“Look, Austin,” he said. “That juke-box you got back there. Is it
working all right?”

Austin squeezed a lime. He didn’t look up.

“I don’t hear any complaints.”

“But—”

Austin slid a replenished glass toward Foster.

“Excuse me,” he said, and went to the other end of the bar.

Foster stole a look at the juke-box. It sat against the wall glowing
enigmatically.

“I don’t exactly know what to think,” he said to no one in particular.

A record started playing. The juke-box sang throatily:

“‘_Leave us face it, we’re in love...._’”

                 *        *        *        *        *

The truth was, Jerry Foster was feeling pretty low in those days. He was
essentially a reactionary, so it was a mistake for him to have been born
in an era of great change. He needed the feel of solid ground under his
feet. And the ground wasn’t so solid any more, what with the newspaper
headlines and new patterns for living emerging out of the vast
technological and sociological changes the mid-Twentieth Century
offered.

You’ve got to be elastic to survive in a changing culture. Back in the
stable Twenties, Foster would have got along beautifully, but now, in a
word, he just wasn’t on the ball. A man like that seeks stable security
as his ultimo, and security seemed to have vanished.

The result was that Jerry Foster found himself out of a job, badly in
debt, and drinking far more than he should have done. The only real
advantage to that set-up was that alcohol buffered Foster’s incredulity
when he encountered the affectionate juke-box.

Not that he remembered it the next morning. He didn’t recall what had
happened for a couple of days, till Sammy looked him up and gave him
nine hundred dollars, the result of Helping Hand coming in under the
wire at Oaklawn. The long shot had paid off surprisingly.

Foster instantly went on a binge, finding himself eventually at a
downtown bar he recognized. Austin was off duty, however, and Betty
wasn’t present tonight. So Foster, tanked to the gills, leaned his elbow
on polished mahogany and stared around. Toward the back was the
juke-box. He blinked at it, trying to remember.

The juke-box began to play “I’ll Remember April.” The whirling confusion
of insobriety focused down to a small, clear, cold spot in Foster’s
brain. He started to tingle. His mouth formed words:

“Remember April—Remember April?”

“All right!” said a fat, unshaven, untidy man standing next to him. “I
heard you! I’ll—What did you say?”

“Remember April,” Foster muttered, quite automatically. The fat man
spilled his drink.

“It isn’t! It’s March!”

Foster peered around dimly in search of a calendar.

“It’s April third,” he affirmed presently. “Why?”

“I’ve got to get back, then,” said the fat man in desperation. He
scrubbed at his sagging cheeks. “April already! How long have I been
tight? You don’t know? It’s your business to know. April! One more
drink, then.” He summoned the bartender.

He was interrupted by the sudden appearance of a man with a hatchet.
Foster, blearily eying the apparition, almost decided to get out in
search of a quieter gin-mill. This new figure, bursting in from the
street, was a skinny blond man with wild eyes and the shakes. Before
anyone could stop him, he had rushed the length of the room and lifted
his hatchet threateningly above the juke-box.

“I can’t stand it!” he cried hysterically. “You spiteful little—I’ll
fix you before you fix me!”

So saying, and ignoring the purposeful approach of the bartender, the
blond man brought down his hatchet heavily on the juke-box. There was a
blue crackle of flame, a tearing noise, and the blond man collapsed
without a sound.

Foster stayed where he was. There was a bottle on the bar near him, and
he captured it. Rather dimly, he realized what was happening. An
ambulance was summoned. A doctor said the blond man had been painfully
shocked, but was still alive. The juke-box had a smashed panel, but
appeared uninjured otherwise. Austin came from somewhere and poured
himself a shot from under the bar.

“‘Each man kills the thing he loves,’” Austin said to Foster. “You’re
the guy who was quoting Omar at me the other night, aren’t you?”

“What?” Foster said.

Austin nodded at the motionless figure being loaded on a stretcher.

“Funny business. That fella used to come in all the time just to play
the juke-box. He was in love with the thing. Sat here by the hour
listening to it. Course, when I say he was in love with it, I’m merely
using a figure of speech, catch?”

“Sure,” Foster said.

“Then a couple of days ago he blows up. Crazy as a loon. I come in and
find the guy on his knees in front of the juke-box, begging it to
forgive him for something or other. I don’t get it. Some people
shouldn’t drink, I guess. What’s yours?”

“The same,” Foster said, watching the ambulance men carry the stretcher
out of the bar.

“Just mild electric shock,” an intern said. “He’ll be all right.”

The juke-box clicked, and a new record swung across. Something must have
gone wrong with the amplification, for the song bellowed out with
deafening intensity.

“‘Chlo-eee!’” screamed the juke-box urgently. “‘_Chlo-eeee!_’”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Deafened, fighting the feeling that this was hallucination, Foster found
himself beside the juke-box. He clung to it against the mad billows of
sound. He shook it, and the roaring subsided.

“‘Chlo-eee!’” the juke-box sang softly and sweetly.

There was confusion nearby, but Foster ignored it. He had been struck by
an idea. He peered into the phonograph’s innards through the glass pane.
The record was slowing now, and as the needle lifted Foster could read
the title on the circular label.

It said, “Springtime in the Rockies.”

The record hastily lifted itself and swung back to concealment among the
others in the rack. Another black disc moved over under the needle. It
was “Twilight in Turkey.”

But what the juke-box played, with great expression, was: “We’ll Always
Be Sweethearts.”

After a while the confusion died down. Austin came over, examined the
phonograph, and made a note to get the broken panel replaced. Foster had
entirely forgotten the fat, unshaven, untidy man till he heard an
irritated voice behind him say:

“It can’t be April!”

“What?”

“You’re a liar. It’s still March.”

“Oh, take a walk,” said Foster, who was profoundly shaken, though he did
not quite know why. The obvious reasons for his nervousness, he
suspected, weren’t the real ones.

“You’re a liar, I said,” the fat man snarled, breathing heavily in
Foster’s face. “It’s March! You’ll either admit it’s March, or—or—”

But Foster had had enough. He pushed the fat man away and had taken two
steps when a tingling shock raced through him and the small, cold, spot
of clarity sprang into existence within his brain.

The juke-box started to play; “Accentuate the Positive, Eliminate the
Negative.”

“It’s March!” the fat man yelped. “Isn’t it March?”

“Yes,” Foster said thickly. “It’s March.”

All that night the song-title blazed in his mind. He went home with the
fat man. He drank with the fat man. He agreed with the fat man. He never
used a negative. And, by morning, he was surprised to find that the fat
man had hired him as a song-writer for Summit Studios, simply because
Foster didn’t say no when he was asked whether he could write songs.

“Good,” the fat man said. “Now I’d better get home. Oh, I am home,
aren’t I? Well, I gotta go to the studio tomorrow. We’re starting a
super-musical April second, and—This is April, isn’t it?”

“Sure.”

“Let’s get some sleep. No, not that door. The swimming-pool’s out there.
Here, I’ll show you a spare bedroom. You’re sleepy, aren’t you?”

“Yes,” said Foster, who wasn’t.

But he slept, nevertheless, and the next morning found himself at Summit
Studios with the fat man, putting his signature on a contract. Nobody
asked his qualifications. Taliaferro, the fat man, had okayed him. That
was enough. He was given an office with a piano and a secretary, and sat
dazedly behind his desk for most of the day, wondering how the devil it
had all happened. At the commissary, however, he picked up some scraps
of information.

Taliaferro was a big shot—a very big shot. He had one idiosyncrasy. He
couldn’t endure disagreement. Only yes-men were allowed around him.
Those who worked for Taliaferro had to accentuate the positive,
eliminate the negative.

Foster got his assignment. A romantic love song for the new picture. A
duet. Everyone took it for granted that Foster knew one note from
another. He did, having studied piano in his youth, but counterpoint and
the mysteries of minor keys were far beyond him.

That night he went back to the little downtown bar.

It was just a hunch, but he thought the juke-box might be able to help
him. Not that he really believed in such things, but at worst, he could
hoist a few shots and try to figure a way out. But the juke-box kept
playing one song over and over.

The odd thing was that nobody else heard that particular song. Foster
discovered that quite by accident. To Austin’s ears, the juke-box was
going through an ordinary repertoire of modern popular stuff.

After that, Foster listened more closely. The song was a haunting duet,
plaintive and curiously tender. It had overtones in it that made
Foster’s spine tingle.

“Who wrote that thing?” he asked Austin.

“Wasn’t it Hoagy Carmichael?”

But they were talking at cross-purposes. The juke-box suddenly sang. “I
Dood It,” and then relapsed into the duet.

“No,” Austin said. “I guess it wasn’t Hoagy. That’s an old one.
‘Dardanella.’”

But it wasn’t “Dardanella.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Foster saw a piano at the back. He went to it and got out his notebook.
First he wrote the lyrics. Then he tried to get the notes down, but they
were beyond him, even with the piano as a guide. The best he could
achieve was a sort of shorthand. His own voice was true and good, and he
thought he might be able to sing the piece accurately, if he could find
someone to put down the notes for him.

When he finished, he studied the juke-box more closely. The broken panel
had been repaired. He patted the gadget in a friendly way and went away
thinking hard.

His secretary’s name was Lois Kennedy. She came into his office the next
day while Foster was tapping at the piano and helplessly endeavoring to
write down the score.

“Let me help you, Mr. Foster,” she said competently, casting a practised
eye over the messy pages.

“I—no, thanks,” Foster said.

“Are you bad on scores?” she asked as she smiled. “A lot of composers
are that way. They play by ear, but they don’t know G sharp from A
flat.”

“They don’t, eh?” Foster murmured.

The girl eyed him intently. “Suppose you run through it, and I’ll mark
down a rough scoring.”

Foster hit a few chords. “Phooey!” he said at last, and picked up the
lyrics. Those were readable, anyway. He began to hum.

“Swell,” Lois said. “Just sing it. I’ll catch the melody.”

Foster’s voice was true, and he found it surprisingly easy to remember
the love song the juke-box had played. He sang it, and Lois presently
played it on the piano, while Foster corrected and revised. At least he
could tell what was wrong and what was right. And, since Lois had lived
music since her childhood, she had little difficulty in recording the
song on paper.

Afterwards she was enthusiastic.

“It’s swell,” she said. “Something really new. Mr. Foster, you’re good.
And you’re not lifting from Mozart, either. I’ll shoot this right over
to the big boy. Usually it’s smart not to be in too much of a hurry, but
since this is your first job here, we’ll chance it.”

Taliaferro liked the song. He made a few useless suggestions, which
Foster, with Lois’s aid, incorporated, and sent down a list of what else
was needed for the super-musical. He also called a conclave of the
song-writers to listen to Foster’s opus.

“I want you to hear what’s good,” Taliaferro told them. “This new find
of mine is showing you up. I think we need new blood,” he finished
darkly, eying the wretched song-writers with ominous intensity.

But Foster quaked in his boots. For all he knew, his song might have
been plagiarized. He expected someone in the audience to spring up and
shout:

“That new find of yours swiped his song from Berlin!”

Or Gershwin or Porter or Hammerstein, as the case might be.

Nobody exposed him. The song was new. It established Foster as a
double-threat man, since he had done both melody and lyrics himself.

He was a success.

Every night he had his ritual. Alone, he visited a certain downtown bar.
When necessary, the juke-box helped him with his songs. It seemed to
know exactly what was needed. It asked little in return. It served him
with the unquestioning fidelity of ‘Cigarette’ in “Under Two Flags.” And
sometimes it played love songs aimed at Foster’s ears and heart. It
serenaded him. Sometimes, too, Foster thought he was going crazy.

Weeks passed. Foster got all his assignments done at the little downtown
bar, and later whipped them into suitable shape with his secretary’s
assistance. He had begun to notice that she was a strikingly pretty
girl, with attractive eyes and lips. Lois seemed amenable, but so far
Foster had held back from any definite commitment. He felt unsure of his
new triumphs.

But he blossomed like the rose. His bank account grew fat, he looked
sleeker and drank much less, and he visited the downtown bar every
night. Once he asked Austin about it.

“That juke-box. Where’d it come from?”

“I don’t know,” Austin said. “It was here before I came.”

“Well, who puts new records in it?”

“The company, I suppose.”

“Ever see ’em do it?”

Austin thought. “Can’t say I have. I guess the man comes around when the
other bartender’s on duty. It’s got a new set of records on every day,
though. That’s good service.”

Foster made a note to ask the other bartender about it. But there was no
time. For, the next day, he kissed Lois Kennedy.

That was a mistake. It was the booster charge. The next thing Jerry
Foster knew, he was making the rounds with Lois, and it was after dark,
and they were driving unsteadily along the Sunset Strip, discussing life
and music.

“I’m going places,” Foster said, dodging an oddly ambulatory telephone
pole. “We’re going places together.”

“Oh, honey!” Lois said.

Foster stopped the car and kissed her.

“That calls for another drink,” he remarked. “Is that a bar over there?”

                 *        *        *        *        *

The night wore on. Foster hadn’t realized he had been under a
considerable strain. Now the lid was off. It was wonderful to have Lois
in his arms, to kiss her, to feel her hair brushing his cheek.
Everything became rosy.

Through the rosy mist he suddenly saw the face of Austin.

“The same?” Austin inquired.

Foster blinked. He was sitting in a booth, with Lois beside him. He had
his arm around the girl, and he had an idea he had just kissed her.

“Austin,” he said, “how long have we been here?”

“About an hour. Don’t you remember, Mr. Foster?”

“Darling,” Lois murmured, leaning heavily against her escort.

Foster tried to think. It was difficult.

“Lois,” he finally said, “haven’t I got another song to write?”

“It’ll keep.”

“No. That torch song. Taliaferro wants it Friday.”

“That’s four days away.”

“Now I’m here, I might as well get the song,” Foster said, with
alcoholic insistence, and stood up.

“Kiss me,” Lois murmured, leaning toward him.

He obeyed, though he had a feeling that there was more important
business to be attended to. Then he stared around, located the juke-box,
and went toward it.

“Hello, there,” he said, patting the sleek, glowing sides. “I’m back.
Drunk, too. But that’s all right. Let’s have that song.”

The juke-box was silent. Foster felt Lois touch his arm.

“Come on back. We don’t want music.”

“Wait a minute, hon.”

Foster stared at the juke-box. Then he laughed.

“I know,” he said, and pulled out a handful of change. He slid a nickel
into the coin-lever and pushed the lever hard.

Nothing happened.

“Wonder what’s wrong with it?” Foster muttered. “I’ll need that song by
Friday.”

He decided that there were a lot of things he didn’t know about, and
ought to. The muteness of the juke-box puzzled him.

All of a sudden he remembered something that had happened weeks ago, the
blond man who had attacked the juke-box with a hatchet and had only got
shocked for his pains. The blond man he vaguely recalled, used to spend
hours _en tête-à-tête_ with the juke-box.

“What a dope!” Foster said thickly.

Lois asked a question.

“I should have checked up before,” he answered her. “Maybe I can find
out—oh, nothing, Lois. Nothing at all.”

Then he went after Austin. Austin gave him the blond man’s name and, an
hour later, Foster found himself sitting by a white hospital bed,
looking down at a man’s ravaged face under faded blond hair. Brashness,
judicious tipping, and a statement that he was a relative had got him
this far. Now he sat there and watched and felt questions die as they
formed on his lips.

When he finally mentioned the juke-box, it was easier. He simply sat and
listened.

“They carried me out of the bar on a stretcher,” the blond man said.
“Then a car skidded and came right at me. I didn’t feel any pain. I
still don’t feel anything. The driver—she said she’d heard somebody
shouting her name. Chloe. That startled her so much she lost control,
and hit me. You know who yelled ‘Chloe,’ don’t you?”

Foster thought back. There was a memory somewhere.

The juke-box had begun to play “Chloe,” and the amplification had gone
haywire, so the song had bellowed out thunderously for a short time.

“I’m paralyzed,” the blond man said. “I’m dying, too. I might as well. I
think I’ll be safer. She’s vindictive and plenty smart.”

“She?”

“A spy. Maybe there’s all sorts of gadgets masquerading as—as things we
take for granted. I don’t know. They substituted that juke-box for the
original one. It’s alive. No, not it! _She!_ It’s a she, all right!”

And—“Who put her there?” The blond man said, in answer to Foster’s
question. “Who are—they? People from another world or another time?
Martians? They want information about us, I’ll bet, but they don’t dare
appear personally. They plant gadgets that we’ll take for granted, like
that juke-box, to act as spies. Only this one got out of control a
little. She’s smarter than the others.”

He pushed himself up on the pillow, his eyes glaring at the little radio
beside him.

“Even that!” he whispered. “Is that an ordinary, regular radio? Or is it
one of their masquerading gadgets, spying on us?”

He fell back.

“I began to understand quite a while ago,” the man continued weakly.
“She put the ideas in my head. More than once she pulled me out of a
jam. Not now, though. She won’t forgive me. Oh, she’s feminine, all
right. When I got on her bad side, I was sunk. She’s smart, for a
juke-box. A mechanical brain? Or—I don’t know.

“I’ll never know, now. I’ll be dead pretty soon. And that’ll be all
right with me.”

The nurse came in then....

                 *        *        *        *        *

Jerry Foster was coldly frightened. And he was drunk. Main Street was
bright and roaring as he walked back, but by the time he had made up his
mind, it was after closing hour and a chill silence went hand in hand
with the darkness. The street lights didn’t help much.

“If I were sober I wouldn’t believe this,” he mused, listening to his
hollow footfalls on the pavement. “But I do believe it. I’ve got to fix
things up with that—juke-box!”

Part of his mind guided him into an alley. Part of his mind told him to
break a window, muffling the clash with his coat, and the same urgent,
sober part of his mind guided him through a dark kitchen and a swinging
door.

Then he was in the bar. The booths were vacant. A faint, filtered light
crept through the Venetian blinds shielding the street windows. Against
a wall stood the black, silent bulk of the juke-box.

Silent and unresponsive. Even when Foster inserted a nickel, nothing
happened. The electric cord was plugged in the socket, and he threw the
activating switch, but that made no difference.

“Look,” he said. “I was drunk. Oh, this is crazy. It can’t be happening.
You’re not alive—_Are you alive?_ Did you put the finger on that guy I
just saw in the hospital? Listen!”

It was dark and cold. Bottles glimmered against the mirror behind the
bar. Foster went over and opened one. He poured the whisky down his
throat.

After a while, it didn’t seem so fantastic for him to be standing there
arguing with a juke-box.

“So you’re feminine,” he said. “I’ll bring you flowers tomorrow. I’m
really beginning to believe! Of course I believe! I can’t write songs.
Not by myself. You’ve got to help me. I’ll never look at a—another
girl.”

He tilted the bottle again.

“You’re just in the sulks,” he said. “You’ll come out of it. You love
me. You know you do. This is crazy!”

The bottle had mysteriously vanished. He went behind the bar to find
another. Then, with a conviction that made him freeze motionless, he
knew that there was someone else in the room.

He was hidden in the shadows where he stood. Only his eyes moved as he
looked toward the newcomers. There were two of them, and they were not
human.

They—moved—toward the juke-box, in a rather indescribable fashion. One
of them pulled out a small, shining cylinder from the juke-box’s
interior.

Foster, sweat drying on his cheeks, could hear them thinking.

“Current report for the last twenty-four hours, Earth time. Put in a
fresh recording cylinder. Change the records, too.”

Foster watched them change the records. Austin had said that the disks
were replaced daily. And the blond man, dying in the hospital, had said
other things. It couldn’t be real. The creatures he stared at could not
exist. They blurred before his eyes.

“A human is here,” one of them thought. “He has seen us. We had better
eliminate him.”

The blurry, inhuman figures came toward him. Foster, trying to scream,
dodged around the end of the bar and ran toward the juke-box. He threw
his arms around its unresponsive sides and gasped:

“Stop them! Don’t let them kill me!”

He couldn’t see the creatures now but he knew that they were immediately
behind him. The clarity of panic sharpened his vision. One title on the
juke-box’s list of records stood out vividly. He thrust his forefinger
against the black button beside the title “Love Me Forever.”

Something touched his shoulder and tightened, drawing him back.

Lights flickered within the juke-box. A record swung out. The needle
lowered into its black groove.

The juke-box started to play “I’ll Be Glad When You’re Dead, You Rascal
You.”

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JUKE-BOX ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
