The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Undamned, by George O. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Undamned

Author: George O. Smith

Release Date: June 20, 2022 [eBook #68354]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE UNDAMNED ***





                             THE UNDAMNED

                          BY GEORGE O. SMITH

                        Illustrated by Swenson

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
               Astounding Science-Fiction, January 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


_Plutonium was an equalizer. Nations learned the art of being polite,
just as individuals had learned. To lash out with Plutonium wildly
would be inviting national disaster, and to behave in an antisocial
manner would get any nation the combined hatred of the rest of the
world--equally a national disaster._

_This was surface politeness. Beneath, the work went on to find an
adequate defense, for now that all nations were equal, the first
capable of defending itself was to be winner. Ultimately, atomic death
was licked. Nicely licked but only at the expenditure of more power
than it took to develop the atomic weapon itself. It was, however,
developed. And that nation then lashed out--to find that other nations
of less belligerency had also licked the problem._

_The war--fizzled. For the wall shield that killed the effectiveness of
the atomic bomb found no difficulty in stopping a lesser weapon._

_All war--fizzled. And nations looked at one another and formed the
Terran Union. Then the Terran Union looked to the stars for a new world
to conquer. They found Mars ready and waiting._

_The Terran Union colonized Mars and exploited the Red Planet as men
have always done with a new frontier. The next hundred years wrought
their changes and the Martian Combine fell away from the Terran Union
because of the distance, the differences of opinion, and because of
slight mutational changes._

_There were interplanetary wars. The First was fought to eliminate
the fact of governing Mars from Terra, the Second was fought to
stop interplanetary piracy and to force both planets to respect the
integrity of the other. The Third Interplanetary War was started
because of sheer greed._

_During the Third Interplanetary War, atomic bombing sprung up, died,
and then continued on a very strange nuisance value basis. It became
complex, and upon the 1327th Day of the Third Interplanetary War,
interplanetary robombing assumed a most dangerous aspect. The swift
action of a small group averted disaster, and from that day on, the
course of the Third Interplanetary War was assured.--I. A. Seldenov's
History of Sol, Vol. IV._

       *       *       *       *       *

The call bell tinged gently in a code that pierced sleep.

Colonel Ralph Lindsay reached out sleepily and nudged a button at his
bedside. Equally sleepily, he donned trousers over his pajamas, slipped
his feet into scuffs, and carefully headed for the door. The open door
swung a shaft of light across the bed, and Lindsay opened his eyes wide
enough to determine whether Jenna was still asleep.

Satisfied, Lindsay went down the corridor of the ship blinking at the
ever-present light. He let himself into the scanning room and dropped
into his chair. He picked up the phone and said: "Lindsay speaking,
answering 3379X."

"General Haynes, Ralph. They got one through."

"How?" asked Lindsay, coming awake.

"Super velocity job. The finders were behind by a quarter radian, at
least."

"Jeepers," grunted Lindsay.

"Say it again," returned the general. "We thought we were bad when
we let one out of five hundred slip through to you. This, remember,
was one out of one. Period. If they use 'em in quantity--and I see
no reason why the devils won't--I can see a good record all shot to
pieces."

"Where's it headed?"

"According to the course-calc, it should be hitting Mojave most any
minute."

"Well, I'd better get on it," said Lindsay. "May I contact you later?"

"Do so, by all means," said the general, signing off. "We can't permit
things like this to happen. I won't hang my head in shame at one per
cent missed, but when one hundred per cent of a shipment runs through,
I'm scared."

Lindsay mumbled an agreement and then clicked the switch to another
line. That would be quicker than juggling the hook for communications
central. The new line came in immediately and Lindsay dialed a number.

It rang.

Lindsay waited.

And a sleepy voice answered: "Roberts."

"Lindsay, Jim. We've another one. Haynes just called. Heading for
Mojave, should be arriving pretty soon."

"Haynes just called and it is due to land?" demanded Roberts. His
voice seemed to come awake and alert instantly. "High speed, huh?"

"Yup."

"I'm shucking into clothing and I'll be in the scanning room of your
ship in a few minutes."

       *       *       *       *       *

Roberts hung up, making a remark about finding things in your own
backyard. It was true, reflected Lindsay. The spaceport outside of the
scanning room greenhouse lay darkly quiet. A few flickers of distant
lights were caused by motion of men between them and him, and on the
horizon he could see the soldier-like columns of the vertical boundary
marker lights piercing the sky. Lindsay fumbled in a pocket, and swore
because his cigarettes were in his battle shirt on the chair beside
the bed, and he was still dressed in pajama top and trousers over
the pajama bottoms. He wondered whether he could steal in and get
cigarettes, or whether he'd better wake Jenna anyway, and wondered
where she kept them in the ship--somehow he never really knew because
there was always a package available when he wanted one. He wondered--

And the door opened and Jenna entered with a bright smile. "Cigarette,
darling?" she asked. Over her nightgown she wore Ralph's battle shirt.
She was holding the lighter to two of them held simultaneously between
her very red lips.

He would have forgiven her anything for that. And the fact that instead
of being dull with sleep, Jenna looked fresh and bright gave the woman
an added charm. "Ghastly time to be up and around," she observed with a
smile. She handed him one of the cigarettes and glanced at the clock.
"Oh-two-hundred," she said idly. "Pacific War Time. Thirteen hundred
and twenty-seventh day of. What's up, Ralph?"

Lindsay puffed deeply and let the smoke trickle out with his words.
"Another one--high-speed job."

Jenna nodded. "Roberts?"

"He's coming right over."

"I've coffee brewing. It hasn't landed yet?"

"Not yet, but we're expecting it any minute."

"We'll have time for coffee."

"We'll _take_ time for coffee," said Ralph. "Roberts will do a better
job for a bit of stimulant and something warm."

Jenna yawned and laughed at herself. Ralph turned as blue streamers
cast flickerings on the walls. Outside in the dark, ships of Terra's
fleet were taking off, trailing their flares into the twinkling sky
above them. They were getting out of range of the robomb blast;
clearing the vast Mojave Spaceport. The marker lights winked off as
the last ship left the port, and the sudden roar of the skytrain
crescendoed and then died as the personnel of Mojave left in haste.
Only the decontamination ship remained on the port.

Seconds later, a pale actinic glow suffused the area. The walls of the
buildings glowed with it as the wall shields hugged the buildings
and anchored them to the solid crust of the planet. In the ship a
counting-rate meter climbed up the scale and a radiation identifier
winked, indicating that it was very hard gamma that triggered the
counter. The internal meter showed no danger inside of the ship; it was
far enough from the nearest building on the port.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door opened again and Jim Roberts walked in. "Give it to me," he
said crisply, nodding cheerfully at Jenna.

Ralph's wife nodded back and then left to get the coffee. When she
returned, Ralph had explained to Captain Roberts fully.

"The devil," muttered Roberts. "Looks rough."

"We've been expecting the high-speed stuff, though," said Jenna,
pouring coffee into three cups.

Lindsay opened his mouth to speak. "You've--" he started, but he was
interrupted by a ground-shaking rumble. Out of the dark California sky
a juggernaut fell, its braking blast lighting up the area. The shrill
of its passage came then, a lowering shrill that started up in the
ear-splitting register and running down the scale like a dying siren
until it was lost in a moan. The earth shook again as the monster hit
the sands of the desert. It sent them high in a mighty impact crater,
plowed its short furrow, and then at the bottom of its inverted cone it
nuzzled into the ground and--started to tick.

Lindsay's jaw closed and he continued: "--been predicting it for a long
time, Jenna." Then he laughed shortly and with just a bit of mirth. "I
won't even let a Martian robomb interfere with what I intend to say."
He became serious again. "No, Jenna, I think you're the only one who
has been insisting that there will be a high-speed job coming along."

Roberts nodded. "The boys at the driver labs claimed it couldn't be
done."

Jenna smiled. It was an elfin smile that brought out the unearthly
beauty of the woman. "That's because I'm Martian," she said simply. "I
know how their minds work."

"That you do," assented Roberts, sipping his coffee. "No one but a
Martian could have unpacked the Gooney."

Lindsay's face paled slightly. Reference to the first and only fuse
that Jenna had ever dissected brought goose pimples to him. Up to that
particular time, the Martians had never included killing charges in the
fuses themselves. Once the thing was out of the robomb, the fuse could
not harm any one. But this diabolical jigsaw puzzle was different. And
Jenna had handed the three pellets to Ralph and then fled. Lindsay
followed her drawings, and they all knew that no one but a Martian
could ever have been able to follow the mechanical labyrinth of that
fuse in safety. Yet they all knew that she'd been safe where not one of
them would have been, for if she'd not asked, amusedly, for permission,
the Gooney would have taken them, one by one. The Gooney had been
dissected and the robomb it came with had been fitted with a Terran
fuse and shipped back. All hoped it would give Mars as much worry as it
had caused Terra.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I've tried detonating it, and naturally, no dice," said Roberts.

"Better defuse it, then. You've hit it with everything?"

"Everything but another atomic."

"That's asking too much," said Lindsay. "They're packed to the limit
with atomics now, and doubling the power--_brrrrr_."

"Well," said Roberts with a slight smile, "my gear is in the battle
buggy. Outside."

"O.K.," said Lindsay. "We'll move back to a clearer area and set the
recorders going. It's cold, for Haynes' outfit didn't so much as heat
it on the way in. High-speed job for fair, and probably loaded with
mercurite."

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship sat down again far enough from the buildings so that the green
actinic light from the force fields did not rise to dangerous levels.
The pale glow gave enough light to make the television cameras usable
without any other artificial means, though the shapeless blob that was
the battle buggy and Jim Roberts was hard to keep from losing with the
unaided eye.

Roberts' voice came over the communicator. "O.K.? I'm about to go after
that devil."

"Go ahead, Jim," said Lindsay. A few beads of sweat popped out on his
forehead.

Jenna frowned. "It must be sheer hell to be like him."

Lindsay nodded, held a finger up to his lips. Jenna nodded, too, having
been warned that the recorder was on, and also that Roberts could hear
every word.

"I'm within one hundred feet of the crater, Lindsay. My first approach
will be with the standard radiation detectors and the initial tools."
This was well-known to all, but stated for recording purposes. "I have
stopped the battle wagon at this distance. I am picking up my kit. I am
stepping to the ground, now, and--"

He was interrupted by the ka-plunking sound in the speaker. It was a
cross, in sound, between plucking a screen door spring and dropping a
boulder into a placid lagoon. A blinding flash of light burst against
the dark sky, an expanding ball of flame raced skyward and died in
a faintly luminous cloud that boiled upwards to a terrific height.
Immediately afterwards, the ground shook madly. The counting-rate meter
chattered and screeched as it overloaded and the radiation identifier
winked furiously on all pilot lights, indicating all kinds of possible
radiation. The pale actinic glow on the walls of the squat buildings
flamed bright, wavered, flickered, paled again, and went out for good.
The area and the ship was pelted with a fine rain of dirt, pebbles, and
fused glass.

The roar of the sound came, then, a thundering tortured blast that
tore at the planeted ship, whistling through the minute scratches from
previous blasts, and producing a thrumming sound.

Quiet came once more, and only the faint buzz of the counting rate
meter audio broke the silence.

Then a slight sob from Jenna.

And Colonel Ralph Lindsay took a deep, indrawn breath that shuddered
his large frame.

He shook himself, and turned to his wife. "Get hold of yourself," he
said harshly.

Jenna nodded, tossed away two tears, blinked her eyes and sat down
weakly. "I'll be all right," she said. "I must."

"They all get it, sooner or later," gritted Lindsay. "That's ...
that's--"

"Shut up, Ralph," ordered his wife. "You'll be blubbering next. Save it
for when you can. We've got work to do."

Lindsay looked at her, and as he looked, he calmed. "It's rather
tough," he said. "There's been several ... many. But few within sight.
Well, he's gone and there's nothing we can do to bring him back."

"What makes it particularly tough is that Jim Roberts was the only one
in the crew that was halfway stable, mentally," said Jenna. "The only
one who was not carrying a mental load."

Lindsay nodded. "A case of having specialized mechanical ability and
putting it to use in the best way. But Jenna ... I'm ... you're--?"

Jenna smiled. "We aren't," she agreed. She stood up and leaned against
him lightly, and then moved into the circle of his arm. "But remember
that neither of us is active in decontamination work. General Haynes
needed a stable man to direct the group, one that would correlate the
information and keep it. Not one that he'd have to replace every few
weeks. Losing Jim is tough. Better it have been one of the others;
Lacy, who lost his family and the will to live at the same instant of
blast; Grant, who is just a plain thrill-seeker and sportsman; Garrard,
who does anything and everything without looking ahead because he is
convinced that the Book of Fate has his every minute move printed in
letters of fire; Harris, who saw his brother die and who now has a
psychopathic hatred against the things but has no great dislike for the
Martians who fashioned them. He hates our robombs as much as he hates
theirs. Well--"

       *       *       *       *       *

She was interrupted by the phone. Lindsay answered. It was General
Haynes.

"Who?"

"Roberts."

"Bad?"

"As soon as the dust clears away we'll know. The force fields are
usually good, and they kept out the radiation from the buildings. As
soon as the surface activity dies out, Mojave will be workable again.
We're leaving as soon as we can."

"Better mobilize your big men," said Haynes. "The second just hissed
past us. Looks like a long siege. That one was mercurite, wasn't it?"

"Nothing else."

"Thought so. We saw the blast from here in space. Know what that means?"

Lindsay nodded and said: "It means they think they have an untouchable
fuse. Otherwise they'd not bother sending the high-powered stuff over."

"Right. They'd not make us a present."

"Also, there is something about that fuse. Something, something. Look,
sir, robombing is a fine art. There is but one defense against it--and
that is for those who want to live to get out of the neighborhood.
That's what the skytrains are for. That's why you send us immediate
word when you have their course predicted. The secondary defense is not
really a defense as it is a preservative measure. The force fields go
up to protect man's work, and when the blast comes, it really destroys
nothing. Then, after a given time, the people return and go to work in
safety because the force fields kept the insides of the building from
either destruction or radioactivity.

"Now," continued Lindsay, "that one went off within ten to twenty
minutes after it landed. The immobilization period for that area is but
a couple of days at best. If not touched, the fuse would tick away for
weeks while the area stands idle. But not with this new, high-speed job
that is also loaded with mercurite. Something--

"Where was this new job?" he asked, changing the subject abruptly.

"Headed for the Gary steel mills," came Haynes' answer.

"I'm putting in a call for my crew," said Lindsay. "We'll all meet in
Chicago-South. There's something--" He shook the thought away with a
violent shake of his head. "We'll find out in Gary."

He went to the general call phone and cut a tape, fed the end into the
automatic transmitter, and checked to see that the general call was
being transmitted. He wondered, briefly, just which of them would get
to Gary first.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the decontamination headquarters ship arrived, it was second.
The little private strato-speedster that was Jack Grant's own pride
and joy was sitting in the main landing field of the Gary port when
Lindsay arrived. Lindsay sort of expected that, for Grant's little
high-powered job placed the owner no more than a couple of hours from
any place on Terra, most of which was spent in going up and down
through the thicker atmosphere near the surface.

They landed, and the air lock clanged open. Moments later Jack Grant
entered the scanning room with his usual whirlwind manner.

"What's cooking, Ralph?" he greeted, extending an eager hand. His free
arm he swept around Jenna, giving her a vigorous hug and a kiss on the
forehead. "Jenna, I swear you're more beautiful by the day. Please?"

"Please what?" she countered, freeing herself and backing off a bit.

"Please poison him and marry me?"

"Nope," she said with finality. "And I won't stand to see him ...
ah ... removed, as you indelicately put it."

"Ralph, you wouldn't mind getting bumped off for your wife's happiness,
would you?"

Lindsay usually lived through Grant's brash manner; made a mental
apology for the man because he himself did not understand the kind of
mind that saw little serious in life. And usually Grant's disregard of
the serious side of life gave all a moral uplift, a chance to disregard
with Grant all of the problems that hack and tear. But Lindsay had
just seen Jim Roberts go up in a sun-hot inferno, and he was slightly
sick with shock. Now, Grant's blithe manner seemed banal, crude;
insufficiently sensitive. If Grant had no feelings, he should at least
consider the sensitivity of others. Lindsay tried to cheer himself, and
managed at best a weak, sickly grin that was lost on Grant completely.
Lindsay might have made some biting remark, but he noted with some
wonder that Jenna was not bitterly unhappy in the badinage. Jenna,
he knew, could and would clutch hysterically at any light point in a
crisis to gain just a bit of stability. Lindsay himself was inclined
to cling doggedly to a situation, deviating not one bit, until it was
finished satisfactorily. Then he would let down.

So noting Jenna's whimsical smile, he merely said, and it was with an
effort: "Think it would make her happy?"

Grant laughed and hugged Jenna quickly and said: "Look, you don't mean
she's actually happy--?"

Jenna nodded brightly, made a full turn to unwind Grant's arm from her
waist and pirouetted over to her husband. That stopped Grant, and he
smiled cheerfully and tried to look downcast.

"Love, unrequited," he sang in an off-tone basso, the opening bars of
Gilbert and Sullivan's "'Love unrequited robs me of my rest.'" Then he
grinned. "Love unrequited and my boss and his best wife who haul me out
of a sound and peaceful sleep to go out and pin a baby-blue ribbon on
a Martian robomb. O.K., fellers, I'll pull its teeth and then, Jenna,
may we continue where you left me off?"

"Been watching it?" asked Lindsay.

Grant nodded. "I've been here since it started in. The mills are clean,
the force fields are up, and the temperature of the thing is low enough
to handle by now. I'm ready."

"We're waiting," said Lindsay.

"Waiting?"

"For the rest of the crew, you know. This is serious."

"Well, it is in my district," laughed Grant. "Let the rest assemble. By
the time they get here I'll have the fuse out and in one hand. Probably
semi-disassembled."

"Jim Roberts was a good man," warned Lindsay.

"He was that."

"You're waiting."

"Why?"

"Because there seems to be more to this than meets the eye."

       *       *       *       *       *

The door opened in time for the entering men to hear Lindsay's last
words. Garrard and Harris came in quietly, sat down, and started to
smoke. Garrard puffed his pipe with calm indifference, and Harris
smoked furiously on a cigarette that he puffed into a long, hot ember
that almost burned his lips. Garrard spoke first.

"More than meets the eye, huh?"

Harris nodded, but his mind seemed elsewhere. "Mutants?" he said,
giving the inert robomb out there a personality. Harris was pitting
himself against a personality when he went to do his job. He had no
real hatred for the Martians who engineered them, but he felt and acted
as though he were pitting his brain against a wholly alien, inimical
sentience.

Lindsay caught his thought, and though Harris was half solemn, the
allegory fitted. For what are engineering improvements but a mechanical
mutant?

Garrard smiled, and shrugged. "I say let's find out who is more
ingenious," he said. "And let's do it quick. Grant, are the mills
running on the servos?"

"Uh-huh, but it isn't good enough. There ought to be a human hand at
the place instead of remote controls. I agree, let's get going before
something happens to that load of steel out there. Stalling production
is the only reason for robombing in the first place. Let's lick that
fuse before they find out how much mercurite to put in in order to
blast the force fields right out of the planet's crust," said Grant.
"Go on with your lecture," he told Lindsay.

"Well, first-off, it's a new, high-speed job. It's also loaded with
mercurite. They've, as usual, packed everything into their Sunday
Punch. Their cocksuredness makes me certain that they think this fuse
unremovable."

Grant turned to Jenna. "Jenna, you're of Martian stock, part way,
anyway. Have any ideas?"

"Only to agree with Ralph. They wouldn't pack a robomb with mercurite
if they thought for one second that it could be inerted. That would
present Terra with a large volume of very valuable material. They
have succeeded in one item, they've used a new high velocity drive in
it. If they weren't certain of the ability of the high-speed drive to
escape all detector-driven gear, they wouldn't use mercurite. Mars is
not profligate, Jack. Tossing away a robomb load of mercurite on a
space-premature is not economically sensible. When they use mercurite,
it must be nearly one hundred percent effective."

"Um ... interesting thought," laughed Grant.

"Like to try it out," said Garrard. "If they feel that certain, I'd
like to know which of us is suitable to survive."

Harris blinked. He flipped the cigarette into the receptacle. "Let me
at the stinking thing," he said in a flat voice.

"Wait for Lacy," said Lindsay.

"Lacy may be late," said Grant. It was one of the very few times that
Jack Grant sounded solemn. He was almost pityingly solemn, and it
made Lindsay wish for his return to the thick-skinned attitude, for
Grant sounding solemn was strictly out of character. "He may be late,"
insisted Grant, "because he hates to come here."

"He won't deny a general alarm," said Lindsay.

"No, he will not. But I say let's not hurt the guy more than we have
to. I say let's go out and pull that thing's teeth and save Lacy the
hurt of seeing you and Jenna together."

Lindsay frowned. He wouldn't say it, but Jenna did. "Jack," she said
softly, "is that a soft spot that makes you want to keep Tom Lacy from
hurt, or are you just giving arguments to get out there and try your
skill against that bomb?"

"A little of both," said Grant cheerfully. "Plus the fact that he makes
me uncomfortable, somehow. It always makes me uncomfortable to see any
man so tied up in his own past emotions that he cannot see clearly."

"Skip it," said Lindsay firmly. "I admit that he is too bound up in the
past, but you, Grant, could stand a little more of his sincerity of
emotion just as he could stand less."

Harris had been quite alert, and broke in at this point. "All due
respects, Grant, but you run this as though you were playing a game. I
know why Lacy is that way. His game was for the reward, yours is for
the game's sake. He saw everything he'd spent his life for go up in a
flaming volcano. Years of living, of loving, of building; puffed out in
a millionth of a second. Puffed out, obliterated, disintegrated beyond
all recognition. Grant, have you ever loved anything, deeply?"

Grant nodded. "All right, fellows, I'm sorry. I'm sorry that I don't
understand Lacy better. I've loved, but I've never let it be my life.
For when I've lost, there has always been something--or someone--else.
Make off like my chips weren't in this deal, will you?"

"Still a game, Grant?" laughed Garrard. "A game where every throw of
the dice is forecast is no game."

"What am I?" chuckled Jack Grant. "Just the baaaaad boy of the
decontamination squadron? Sure it's a game--the whole thing is a game.
And whether you're playing your brother for marbles or playing the
devil for fame, you play to win."

"I say--" started Garrard.

Grant out-talked him. "_I_ say that I am the master of my fate. And if
anybody calls me Invictus Grant I shall cut his throat. Or her throat,"
he added, turning to Jenna with a grin.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door opened again and Lacy entered. "Quite a conference," he said.
"Well, Ralph, where is it and what's to be done?"

Lindsay brought him up to date. Then they ran off the recording of Jim
Roberts' unhappy attempt.

"You may just be overcautious," said Lacy when the recording had
finished. "It may have been a circumstance."

"Unlikely. The thing is ... has too many facets. Jenna herself claims
that a new item was expectable. Haynes had his statisticians at work,
and their findings were that the quantity of late has been diminishing,
which from past experience means that something new is due."

Jack Grant looked at Lindsay. "You don't suppose they're after the
decontamination squadron?"

"If they were gunning for us," said Harris in a voice that shook with
hatred, "they'd do it this way!" Then he settled back again. "But would
they waste mercurite on us?"

"As a means of keeping production open, we're worth mercurite,"
responded Lindsay. "And it might take something more than the ordinary
to go out and eliminate men who have made a business of defusing the
things. Assassination is almost impossible.

"And," he said reflectively, "we may be barking up the wrong tree. All
I know is that we've a brand new type, and as usual I've called the
entire group in to get the initial factors all complete. Are we a bunch
of persecution-complexes that we think they're after us?"

"No," grinned Jack Grant, "but remind me to tell that idea to Ordnance.
Eliminating the decontamination squadron is like poisoning a city by
shutting off its sewage system, perhaps, but it is effective!"

"We'll forget the personal angle until we get this one solved," said
Ralph Lindsay.

"Well, let's go," said Grant eagerly.

"We'll take this easily," objected Lindsay.

"No gambling instinct?" queried Grant with an amused smile.

"That's why he's boss," said Garrard dryly. "Lindsay has neither an ax
to grind nor an ego to build up."

"Huh?" asked Grant.

"Admitted ... and I'm sorry, Tom," said Garrard to Lacy, "that Lacy has
his ax to grind. You, Jack, apparently get an egotistical lift out of
this 'game.' Lindsay has neither."

"O.K., boss man," smiled Grant. "What do we do?"

"All the radiation meters we can pack into the battle buggy. Also we
set up a radiating system near it. Then come back and we'll run through
the spectrum to see. Now--"

"It's still in my district," reminded Grant.

"You're overeager," objected Garrard.

"And you're too complacent," objected Harris.

"Trouble with you," said Lacy, "is that you get too deep-set in pitting
your skill against a mechanical puzzle and forget to tell us the moves."

Lindsay smiled sourly. "To finish this round robin, may I tell you
_your_ faults, Tom? You are inclined to make a false move. Not
consciously, but there have been a few times when you came out by the
skin of your teeth, having pathologically missed a fine point, and
having caught it consciously."

Grant reached in a back pocket and rolled a pair of dice on the floor.
"Roll for it?" he asked hopefully.

"Never touch dice," objected Harris.

Grant reached inside his jacket and fanned a deck of cards. "Cut?"

"Games," said Garrard sourly. "Games of chance in a preordained
world--Bah!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Jenna hit the table with her small fist. "Stop it, all of you! A finer
collection of neurotics I've never seen collected under one roof
before. And not one of you dare suggest that Ralph pick a man. Haynes
would be wild if he knew that Ralph had been put into a psychological
hole by being forced to send any man into ... into ... into that."
Deigning to name the menace was itself a psychic block, but Jenna did
not care. Instead of talking further, she reached for the deck of
cards. "The thirteenth card," she said, starting to deal them off,
"One, two, three," placing them face up before her. "Lacy, hearts;
Harris, spades; Grant, diamonds, and Garrard, clubs.--Ten, eleven,
twelve, and thirteen!"

The ace of spades.

Harris smiled, got up cheerfully, and went to get his trappings ready.
Garrard grunted. "Games of chance," he sneered. "In a--"

Grant jumped up. "Look, Ed," he snarled. "In this completely
preordained world of yours, how can an inhabitant know the will of
the Gods of No-chance? What criterion would _you_ have used to select
Harris, huh? So if nothing else, the laws of chance do that much,
to at the very least tell us who the Gods select. And so long as we
ourselves do not know the answer, who cares if it is preordained?"
Having delivered this, Grant looked at Jenna. "Bright girl," he said.
"An instrument, if you admit Ed's plan, of the Gods."

Jenna smiled. "You mean 'whom the Gods--select,'" she corrected
blithely.

Grant hauled out a flask, unscrewed a one-ounce cap and poured it full.
"Here," he snapped, practically forcing it into her mouth.

Jenna spluttered. "Thanks," she said, calming. "I know how Lindsay
feels, and it is not up to him to tell us. But I don't care whether it
is predestiny or not, and whether we're all non-gamblers or goody-goody
boys. But we'll use this set of cards for any future guesswork. See?
And, we'll cut, ourselves. See? We'll not make the mistake of forcing
Jenna or Ralph into dealing out a poisoned arrow."

"I wish people would stop worrying about my peace of mind," growled
Lindsay. "I admit all that's been said. I am not to undergo any
personal emotional strain. But being psychologically packed in cotton
and linseed oil isn't good for me either."

"And all over one problematical bomb," smiled Jenna. "Why don't we
wait. If the first one was coincidence, certainly the rest, after
solution, will make us all feel like overwrought schoolgirls."

Harris returned at this point. "Ready," he said with a smile. His eyes
were bright, and he seemed eager. There was an exultation about Harris,
a bearing that might have been sheer theatrical effort, yet it seemed
as though he were going out to do personal battle with his own personal
devil.

Lindsay nodded briefly. "Give us every single smidgin of information.
If you scrape your feet, tell us. Understand?"

"I get it. O.K., there's been enough time wasted. S'long."

       *       *       *       *       *

His voice came clearly, and in the dawning light, the automatic
television cameras adjusted the exposure as the dawn came brighter by
the moment. The battle wagon headed out across the rough ground where
the teeming city of Gary had lived a hundred years ago. A mile or two
beyond, the battle wagon entered the parking area, now cleared of its
horde of parked 'copters by the fleeing personnel.

The ship lifted and retreated a few miles, finding level enough ground
to continue observation, and Harris went on and on.

"I'm stopping," he said, and it was faithfully recorded. "I'm about
a hundred feet from the crater, setting up detectors and radiators.
Shall I drive back or will you come in and pick me up? Seems to be safe
enough. He hasn't gone off yet."

"We'll pick you up but quick. Ready?"

"Ready. Everything's set on the servos."

"O.K."

They met, immediately whisked into the sky and back to more than a
safe distance. Then they went to work, searching etheric space and
subetheric space for radiations. They hurled megawatt pulses of radio
energy and subradio energy at the ticking thing. They thundered at
it with audio, covering all known manner of vibration from a few
cycles per minute of varying pressure to several megacycles of sheer
air-wave. They mixed radio and audio, modulated the radio with the
audio and hurled both continuous waves and pulsed waves, and mixed
complex combinations of both. Then they modulated the subradio with
radio, which was modulated with audio and they bombarded it with that.
Rejecting the radiation bands entirely, they went after it, exploring
the quasi-optical region just below the infra-red in the same complete
manner. They fired at it constantly, climbing up into the heat waves,
up into visible light and out into the ultra-violet. They hurled
Brentz rays, Roentgen rays, and hard X. They tuned up the betatron
and lambasted it with the most brittle of hard X rays. They hurled
explosive charges at it, to shock it. Then they sent drone fliers,
radio controlled, and waved reflecting masses at it gently and harshly
by flying the drones back and forth above it.

After three hours of this--and three more incoming robombs of the same
type had been reported, they gave up.

"They're piling up," grunted Lindsay.

"Wish we could move it," said Grant.

"You always wish that. You tell us how to grapple with three hundred
tons of glass-slick, super-hard ovoid with a high diamagnetic surface
and a built-in radiation shield. Moving them is the easiest answer--and
the one initially avoided."

Harris blinked. "Nothing else?"

"There's nothing left but to go out and pull its teeth," said Lindsay.
"Nothing we know can detonate the thing."

Harris smiled knowingly. "Naturally," he said. "Their point in life is
to immobilize Terra. They must not go off until they are ready. They're
willing to wait. They found out we could detonate them and then return
to work in a couple of hours with radiation shields. So they now get a
fuse that cannot be extracted and cannot be detonated until they want
it to. Give 'em one chance to prove one effective, and all Terra will
be immobilized by them, and they'll drop everywhere. Also, maintaining
the force fields takes a lot of valuable power. And if we shut off the
fields, it might go up and then we'd lose the whole place."

"How I wish we could take pictures."

"Photographs?" asked Grant, smiling. "I saw one of them once. A family
heirloom. Too bad, of course. But what do you expect when the whole
world is living in a sort of bath of neutrons, and silver itself
becomes slightly radioactive? After all, photography used to use a
silver compound of some sort if my physical history is right."

"Silver bromide," said Lindsay slowly. "Look, Harris," he said, his
interest showing where his mind was really working, "go out there
and make a few sketches. Then come back without touching the thing.
Understand?"

"Right."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am approaching the thing," he said from the field of action again.
"I'm about two hundred feet from it. Working now with the projection
box, sketching on the ground glass. This is a fairly standard model of
robomb, of course. They load 'em with anything they think useful after
making them at another plant, just as we do. The fuse--too bad they
can't bury it inside. But it must be set, or at least available to the
makers. If they should improve on it, it would be serious business to
de-load these things to get to a buried fuse. Yep, there he is, right
up on top as usual. Fuse-making has reached a fine art, fellows. Think
of a gadget made to work at will or by preset, and still capable of
taking the landing wallop they get. Well, they used to make fuses to
stand twenty thousand times gravity for use in artillery. But this ...
well, Ralph, I've about got it sketched. Looks standard. Except for a
couple of Martian ideographs on it. Jenna, what's a sort of sidewise
Omicron; three concentric, squashed circles; and a tick-tack-toe mark?"

"Martian for Mark Six Hundred Fifty, Modification Zero," answered the
girl.

"Some language when you can cram that into three characters."

"Well, I'm through. Ralph, so far as I'm concerned, this drawing will
serve no purpose. Use that one of the standard model and have Jenna
make the right classification marks across the fuse top. That's a
better drawing anyway. I'm going on out and defu--"

The flash blinded, even through the almost-black glasses. It was warm,
through the leaded glass windows. The eventual roar and the grinding
hailstorm of sand and stone and sintered glass tore at the ship. The
counters rattled madly and fell behind the driving mechanism with
a grinding rattle. A rocketing mushroom of smoke drove toward the
stratosphere, cooling down to mere incandescence as it went.

Miles away a production official watched the meters on his servo panel.
They were stable. The buildings held. With the lighter radioactinic
shields, work could be resumed in twenty-four hours. He started to make
plans, calling his men happily. The bomb was no longer a menace, and
the mills could get back to work.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Harris," said Garrard solemnly. "So shall it be! Well, may he rest,
now. Hatred such as his--an obsession against an inanimate object. I--"

"Shut up," said Lacy quietly. "You're babbling."

"Well," said Grant in his hard voice, "we can detonate 'em if we can't
defuse 'em. Only it's hard on the personnel!"

Lacy looked up and spoke quietly, though his face was bitter. "Jack
Grant, you have all the sensitivity and feelings of a pig!"

"Why ... you--"

Lindsay leaped forward, hoping to get between them. Jenna went forward
instinctively, putting up a small hand. Garrard looked at them
reflectively, half aware of the incident and half convinced that if
they were to fight, they would regardless of any act of man.

It was the strident ringing of the telephone that stopped them in their
tracks; staying Grant's fist in midswing.

Jenna breathed out in a husky sound.

"Who was that at Gary?" asked General Haynes.

"We lost Harris."

"Same as before?"

Lindsay nodded glumly, forgetting that Haynes couldn't see him. Then he
added: "Didn't even get close."

"What in thunder have they got?" asked Haynes. It was an hypothetical
question, the general did not expect an answer. He added, after a
moment of thought: "You've tried everything?"

"Not everything. So far as I've been able to tell, the things will sit
there until we go after 'em. They'll foul up production areas until we
go after 'em, and then when we're all gone--what then?"

"Lindsay! Take hold, man. You're ... you're letting it get you."

Lindsay nodded again. "I admit it. Oh, I'll be all right."

"Well, keep it up--trying I mean. We're tinkering with the spotters and
predictors and we hope to get 'em up to the point where they'll act on
those lightning fast jobs."

"We'll be getting to Old London," said Lindsay. "That's next. Good
thing they dispersed cities a century ago, even granting the wall
shield."

"Good luck, Lindsay. And when you've covered all the
mechanico-electrical angles, look for other things."

He hung up, but Lindsay pondered the last remark. _What did he mean?_

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship was on its way to Old London before Lindsay called for a
talk-fest.

"We don't know anything about these things excepting that they go off
when we approach 'em," said Lindsay. "Has anybody any ideas?"

"Only mine," grunted Jack Grant with a half-smile. "Something triggers
'em off whenever we come close."

"Couple of hundred feet," growled Lacy, "isn't close enough to permit
operation of any detector capable of registering the human body without
some sort of radiation output."

"Not direct detection," agreed Lindsay, facing Grant again.

Grant nodded. Then Garrard said: "I've an idea. But I'm mentioning it
to no one."

"Why?"

"I don't want to tip my hand."

"Thought you weren't a gambler," jeered Grant.

"I'm not. I can't foresee the future, written though it is. I'll play
it my way, according to my opinion. The fact that I feel this way about
it is obviously because it is written so."

"Oh Brother!" grunted Jack Grant. "With everything all written in the
Book of Acts, you still do things as you please because so long as you
desire to do things that way it is obvious that the Gods wrote it?"

Garrard flushed. And Lindsay said: "Grant, you're a born trouble-maker."

"Maybe I should go out and take the next one apart. I'm still willing
to bet my life against a bunch of Martians." Then he looked at Jenna.
"I'm sorry, Jenna."

"Don't be," she said. "I may be Martian, but it's in ancestry only. I
gave up my heritage when I set eyes on Ralph, you know." Then she stood
up. "I'm definitely NOT running out," she laughed. "I'm going down to
put on more coffee. I think this may be a long, cold winter."

She left, and Ed Garrard looked up at Lindsay, sourly.

"Well?" asked Ralph.

"Look, Lindsay, I may be speaking out of turn."

"Only the Gods know," chuckled Grant.

"Shut up, you're banal and out of line again," snapped Lindsay. "Look,
Ed, no matter what it is, out with it."

"Lindsay, what do you know about this rumor about Martian mind-reading?"

"Very little. It is a very good possibility for the future, I'd say.
It's been said that the ability of certain Martians to mental telepathy
is a mutation. After all, the lighter atmosphere of Mars makes
bombardment from space more likely to succeed."

"Mutation wouldn't change existing Martians," mused Grant. "The thing,
of course, may either be a mutation that is expected--in which case it
may occur severally--or an unexpected dominant mutation in which case
its spread will occur as the first guy inseminates the race with the
seeds of his own being."

"Right."

"You don't know?"

"No," said Lindsay. "I don't know which and furthermore it is
unimportant."

"Might be," objected Grant. "How many are there and what is their
ability?"

"There are about seventy Martians known to be able to do mental
telepathy under ideal circumstances. Of the seventy-odd, all of them
are attuned to only one or two of the others. So we have an aggregation
of seventy, in groups of three maximum, that are able to do it."

"Is any of Jenna's family--?"

"Not that I know of. And besides, Jenna's loyal."

"They might be reading her mind unwittingly," said Garrard.

"Impossible."

"Know everything?" said Garrard, instantly regretting the implication.

"Only that Jenna's father was a psychoneural surgeon, and I've read
plenty of his books on the subject. They're authoritative."

"Were, before the war."

Lindsay nodded. "You're thinking of some sort of amplifier system?"

Garrard nodded.

"I doubt it," said Lindsay.

Lacy looked up and shook his head. "It would have to be gentle,"
he said. "According to what I've heard, the guy who's doing the
transmitting is clearly and actually aware of every transmitted thought
that is correctly collected by the receiver. Couple a determined will
to transmit with certain knowledge of reception, and then tell me how
to read a mind that is one, unwilling; and two, unaware." Lacy snorted.
"Seems to me we're getting thick on this." He arose and left, slowly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lacy wandered into the galley and spoke to Jenna. "Mind?"

"Not at all," she said brightly.

"I need a bit of relaxation," he said. "We've had too many hours of
solid worry over this thing."

She put a hand on his shoulder. "Tom," she said, "you're all to bits.
Why don't you quit?"

"Quit?" he said dully. "Look, Jenna, I quit a long time ago. Fact of
the matter is, there's not one of us but won't kill ourselves as soon
as the need for us is over. Excepting you and Ralph. You--have one
another to live for. We--have nothing."

"Grant?"

"Grant will be at loose ends, too. Remember, he has been seeking thrill
after thrill, and cutting closer to the line each time. This defusing
is the ultimate in nerve thrills to him, pitting himself against a
corps of mechanical experts. Going back to rocket-racing and perihelion
runs will be too tame. He's through, too."

"You all could get a new interest in life. You shouldn't quit," said
Jenna softly.

"That's the worst of it," said Tom Lacy looking down at her. "I quit a
long time ago. It's the starting-up that I fear."

"I don't follow."

"I think of Irene--and Little Fellow--and I know that when that area
went up, my life ended. I've never had Harris' psychopathic hatred of
the things. I've just felt that I'd like death, but want to go out
doing my part. I have a life-long training against suicide per se, but
I euphemize it by taunting death with the decontamination squadron."

"Yes?" said Jenna. She knew more was to come.

"Alone I'm all right. Then I see you and Ralph. I feel a
resentment--not against you, or Ralph, but against Fate or Kismet or
whatever Gods there be that they should deny me and give to you freely.
It's not right that I feel this way. Life is like that." He quoted
bitterly: "'Them as has, gits!'"

"Tom, I swear that if it were mine to do, I'd give you all the things
you lost--return them."

He nodded. "Giving me wouldn't do," he said in self-reflection. "I'd
want return--and that is impossible."

Jenna knew well enough not to say the trite remark about Time being
the Great Healer. "Poor Tom," she said gently. Maternally, she leaned
forward and kissed him on the cheek. An inner yearning touched him and
opened a brief door of forgetfulness. He tightened his arms about
her for a moment and as her face came up, he kissed her with a sudden
warmth. In Jenna, mixed feelings, conflicting emotions burned away by
his warmth. She responded instinctively and in the brief moment removed
some of the torture of the lonely, hating days.

Then as the mixed thoughts cleared, Lacy found himself able to think
more clearly. Though still flushed, he loosened his tight hold upon
her waist, and as he relaxed, Jenna changed from the yielding softness
of her to a woman more remote. Her eyes opened, and her arms came down
from about his neck and she stepped back, breathing fully.

"Sorry, Jenna--"

She laughed. It was not a laugh that meant derision; in fact it was a
laugh reassuring to him, as she'd intended it to be. "Don't be sorry,"
she said softly. "You've committed no crime, I understand."

He nodded. "I was, sort of, kind of--"

"Tom," she said seriously, "there's a lot of good therapy in a kiss.
So far as I know, you needed some, and I gave it to you, freely and
gladly. I'll ... do it again ... when it's needed." Then she looked
away, shyly.

A moment later, she looked up again, her face completely composed.
"What do you suppose Garrard has on his mind?" she asked.

He told her, completely.

The scanning room was dark when they returned. Out through the
viewport the actinic glow of the buildings cast a greenish light over
the landscape, creating an eerie impression of the scene. The small
buildings, widely scattered, were a far cry from Old London of the
nineteen hundreds, with its teeming millions and its houses, cheek by
jowl.

"Where's Ed?" asked Jenna, fumbling in the dark scanning room with the
coffee tray.

"Gone."

"Gone?" she echoed. "How long ago?"

"Ten minutes or so. He should be there--"

Out, a few miles from them, hidden in the canyons of the buildings, a
burst of flame soared up. A gigantic puffball that ricochetted from the
actinic-lighted walls of the buildings and then went soaring skyward.
A pillar of fire and smoke headed for the stratosphere as the counters
clicked. The wall shields started to die out as the force of the
explosion was spent.

Lindsay snapped on the lights. He faced them, his face white.

"That," he said harshly, "was Garrard."

Grant nodded. "It wasn't in his Book," he said.

"Neither," snarled Lindsay, "was it in his Book to keep his action
secret."

"Meaning?" asked Grant.

"Who was the bright one that mentioned where he'd gone?"

"That should have been obvious," said Grant.

"Obvious or not--he's gone."

"What you're saying is that he's gone because I opened my big trap?"

Lindsay blinked. "Sorry, Jack. But I'm at wit's ends. I do wish that he
had his chance, perfect, though." He stared at Lacy.

Tom, remembering that he had been kissing the man's wife less than five
minutes before, flushed slightly and flustered. He hoped it wouldn't
show--

"Tom, that's a new brand of lipstick you're wearing, isn't it?" gritted
Lindsay.

Tom colored.

Jenna faced her husband. "I kissed him," she said simply. "I did it
as any mother would kiss a little boy--because he needed kissing. Not
because--"

"Forget it," said Ralph. "Did you know what Garrard was thinking?"

"Tom told me."

"Nice reward," sneered Ralph, facing Lacy.

Lacy dropped his eyes, bitterly.

Jack Grant looked up. "Listen, Lindsay, you're off beam so far--"

"You keep out of this," snarled Lindsay, stepping forward.

"I'm not staying out of it. It happens to be some of my business,
too. Lacy, this may hurt, but it needs explaining. Lindsay, I'm not a
soft-hearted bird. I'm not even soft-headed. But if any man ever needed
the affection of a woman, Tom Lacy does, did, and will. And if I had
mother, wife, or sister that refused to try to straighten Lacy out, I'd
cut her throat! I've made a lot of crude jokes about the fact that she
married you because of your money or friends, but they were just crude
jokes that I'd not have made if she hadn't been so completely Mrs.
Ralph Lindsay that mere mention of anything else was funny. And you
can scream or you can laugh about it, but whatever she did down in the
galley, I say, makes a better woman of her!" Then Grant smiled queerly
and turned to Lacy. "You lucky dog," he grinned. "She never tried to
kiss me!"

Ralph Lindsay sat down wearily. "Was that it, Jenna?"

She nodded; unable to speak.

"I'm sorry," said Lindsay.

"Look, Lindsay--" started Tom Lacy.

Lindsay interrupted. "Lacy, I'm the one to be sorry. I mean it.
Pity--is hard to take, even to give honestly. You don't want it, yet it
is there. Yes," nodded Lindsay, "if there's anything, ever, that we can
do to see you straightened out, we'll do it. Now--"

The phone.

Lindsay picked up the phone and said: "Garrard got it! Where's the next
one?"

Haynes said: "Take the one in the Ruhr Industrial District. How'd
Garrard get it?"

"We don't know. He went out unplanned, wondering if utter secrecy
mightn't be the answer."

"Too bad," said Haynes and hung up quickly. The general didn't like the
tone of Lindsay's voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lindsay faced them. "What do we know?" he asked. He felt that he'd
been asking that question for year upon year, and that there had been
no answer save a mystical, omnipotent rumbling that forboded ill--and
that threatened dire consequences if asked to repeat.

"Not a lot," said Grant. "They go off when we get within a hundred feet
or so of them. That's all we know."

"Garrard went out without running his intercom radio. He made no
reports, thinking that maybe they listened in on our short-range jobs
and fired them somehow by remote control when they feared we might
succeed in inerting the things!" Lindsay growled in his throat.

"Look," said Grant. "This is urgent. It is also knocking out our
nerves. It's not much of a run from here to Ruhr Industrial, but I'm
going to suggest that we all forget the problem completely for a few
minutes. Me, I'm going in to take a shower."

The value of relaxation did not need pressing. Jenna nodded. "None of
us have had much of anything but coffee and toast," she said. "I'm
going down and build a real, seven-course breakfast. Any takers?"

They all nodded.

"And Ralph, you come and break eggs for me," she laughed. "So far as I
know, I'm the only one that's capable of taking your mind off of your
troubles momentarily."

Lindsay laughed and stood up.

Lacy said it was a good idea, and then added: "I'm going to write a
letter."

The rest all looked at one another. If Tom Lacy were writing a
letter, it meant that he'd taken some new interest in life. Wordless
understanding passed between the other three and they all left Lacy
sitting at the desk.

       *       *       *       *       *

The autopilot was bringing the ship down toward the ground out of the
stratosphere, slanting toward the Ruhr when Jenna snapped the intercom
switch. "Breakfast," she called. Her voice rang out through the ship.
Grant came immediately and sat down. Lindsay was already seated. Jenna
served up a heaping plate of ham, eggs, fried potatoes, and a small
pancake on the side. "This," she smiled, "is too late for a real
breakfast, but I demand a breakfast even if it's nine o'clock in the
evening when I first eat for the day. There's more if you're still
hungry."

"We'll see," said Grant. He picked up his knife and fork but stopped
with them poised. "Where's Lacy?"

"I'll give another call," said Jenna, repeating her cry.

They fell to, attacking their plates with vigor. But no Lacy. They
finished and still no Lacy. "Come on," said Jenna. "Maybe he's still
feeling remorse. We'll find him and then we'll feed him if we have to
hold him down and stuff him. O.K.?"

"Yeah," drawled Grant. "Feeding does wonders for my mental attitude.
It'll do Tom good, too! Let's find him."

They headed for the scanning room, but it was empty. The desk where
they'd left him was as though he had not been there, except--

"Letter?" queried Lindsay, puzzled. "Now, what--" his voice trailed
away as he slit the envelope and took out the sheet of paper. He
cleared his throat and began:

    "Dear Folks:

    "I put no faith in Garrard's suspicions, but since he was lost
    without an honest chance to prove them, I am taking this chance.

    "I am taking my skeeter when I finish this and I'm going on ahead,
    alone. Knowing you as I do, I'll have plenty of time to inspect
    that robomb before you read this. I'm explaining my actions because
    I feel that you may need explanation.

    "I think the world and all of both Jenna and Ralph, and feel that I
    may have caused suspicion and unhappiness there. Since I'll have
    time to take a good look at this thing and also make some motions
    toward defusing it long before you arrive, or even find this, let
    my success be a certain statement of the fact that knowledge of my
    actions by any of you--or even suspicion cast at the presence of
    the Decontamination Squadron Ship by the enemy--is not the
    contributing cause. No one will know until I'm all fin--"

Light filled the scanning room, and the ship rocked as it was buffeted
by the blast. The light and the heat and the sound tore at them, and
they clung to the stanchions on the scanning room until the ship
stopped rocking and then Grant made a quick dash for the autopilot,
which was chattering wildly under the impact of atomic by-products. It
stabilized itself, however, and the ship continued on down through the
billowing dust to the ground.

"That," growled Lindsay, "loses us Lacy and proves nothing."

"Not entirely," drawled Grant. "It does prove that whatever agency is
directing these things does not require the presence of this ship as a
tip-off."

"A lot of help that is."

"Well, I'm nominated for the next try. Unanimously. I'm the only one
voting any more."

Jenna gasped.

"What's the matter, Jenna?" asked Grant.

"I just realized that you were all that's left. Just like that--and in
a few hours. Poor Lacy."

"Lacy?" said Grant. "He--got his release. It's what he's wanted. May we
all find what we want as quickly."

"I hate to see any one courting death, though," said Jenna.

"My only regret for Lacy is that we don't know whether he--and
Garrard, by the way--went in the same way."

"Meaning?" asked Grant.

"The rest got it as they headed out to defuse the things," said
Lindsay. "At about a hundred feet. We can only assume that Garrard and
Lacy went in the same way. I'd like better than an assumption."

"Why?"

"A hundred feet is too distant to detect the human body without
radiation. It presupposes either a warning of some type or--" Lindsay
scowled and stopped. He mumbled something about a conference with
General Haynes. He stepped to the autopilot and set it for the next
location. Then he left to seek the privacy of his own office from which
to call General Haynes. As he left, Jenna lifted a worried face to Jack
Grant.

"Jack," Jenna said, "he doesn't trust me any more."

"It does look bad," said Grant. "After all, every one of them came in
your presence."

"They came in your presence, and his."

"Admitted. But--"

"I know," she said, with deep feeling. "But I can't help being Martian.
My loyalty is with Ralph."

"Jenna," said Grant softly, "we know that. All of us know it. Yet,
there's some agency that is tipping them off. There's been robombs
at the other sites for hours now, and not one of them has gone off.
They're tying up production until we arrive, and they'll continue to
tie up the area until we make a false move. Something or someone is
giving them the tip-off. I know it isn't me, you know it isn't you, and
Ralph knows it isn't him. The areas are completely cleared, but, of
course, there may have been watchers. But Garrard would have gone out
unlighted, and possibly Lacy would have done the same."

"Jack," she pleaded, "do you suspect me, too?"

"Jenna, you know I do. I rationalize myself, and tell myself that it
isn't so. But nevertheless, there is that lingering doubt. Evidence,
Jenna. Evidence."

"Jack, a criminal is considered innocent until proven guilty."

"Jenna, that's for the safety of all who may be accused. But
considering a man guiltless does not prevent people from making
charges. And there have been many occasions where the accused was
forced to go through a strenuous period before proving his innocence.
What they really mean is that they will not punish a man against whom
no true conviction is brought. Until he is convicted, he can not be
punished. And it is up to the authorities to prove his guilt. It is
also up to him to prove his innocence. But considering him innocent
permits his own testimony to be considered as valid as that of any
witness instead of marking it off of the books as the word of a guilty
man."

"And I?"

"Forgive me, Jenna. I think the world of you, and there is in me a
rather violent mental storm. One side--the larger side, insists that
you are loyal, and above reproach. The other side, that tells me
to beware of the woman in you, that if you were really clever and
treacherous, you would hurl these doubts out in the open and cause
suspicion to fall upon yourself. And, you are Martian. A sort of racial
instinct warns me. It's unfair, and I dislike myself thoroughly for it."

Tears welled in Jenna's deep eyes. "Jack, please. What can I do?"

"I don't know," he told her.

"I ... feel miserable," she sobbed.

"It's a tough load to bear," he said softly, putting a hand on her
shoulder.

"It's unfair," she said shakily. "Look, Jack, I know you too well to
believe that hard exterior. You put that on because you're excessively
soft inside and people can hurt you too easily if you're not careful.
I am like that, but I'm not as soft as you are."

Jack laughed a bit. It was a false laugh, designed to lift her out of
the doldrums.

It failed.

"For eight long years," she said earnestly, "I've taken from Ralph
everything that any woman would find ideal. I've had companionship,
tenderness, love and affection. Complete compatibility. He's met my
every mood. And not only because it will please me for him to mirror my
moods, but because he feels that way too, and his moods change as mine
do. He is absolutely happy to follow or lead me into any change of mood
and we're never far apart. I've been protected and loved by the man I
wanted. That's perfection.

"But for four of those years, I've been unable to reciprocate."

"Now, Jenna, that's not true."

"I love him--even more, now. And I'd do nothing to stand in the way
of his happiness. But Jack, remember I'm Martian and he is denied his
right to command a battle squadron. Because of me. He's stuck in this
noncombat group--because of my heritage. In all that time, he has never
shown it, yet he must know. If anything, he has become more tender,
more protecting, more affectionate. More tolerant. Yet what can I do to
give him release from this? Suicide isn't the proper answer. That would
deprive me of what I want, and his desire is not completely to the
service. But he cannot have his cake and eat it too."

"That's quite a load, Jenna," said Grant tenderly. "I hadn't realized."

"I ignore it, mostly. But there are times when it creeps up and gets
me. I wake at night, thinking deeply. I fret, and go sleepless, wishing
there were a way out."

"I think you've well made up for it."

"No," she said with a shake of his head. "He must feel denied of his
right to honor by his affiliation--made in the face of public objection
to mixed-marriage. I ... am now worse. An enemy alien."

"You are a Terran citizen," stated Grant.

"I have papers to prove it," she said scornfully. "And any doctor that
didn't see the papers but examined me perfunctorily would pronounce
me Martian. Ours will always be--a sterile marriage. It cannot be
otherwise. Yet until this shadow came, we were both happy."

"Poor Jenna," said Grant, putting her head down on his shoulder and
patting the back of it. "And now that the first doubt has crept in,
the rest of Pandora's Troubles all come roaring in through the initial
breach."

"And now this," she sobbed. "Grant, it's worse than torture."

       *       *       *       *       *

Grant's mind whipped back and forth between several types of torture
he'd heard about and wondered what she meant.

"No amount of torture could pry a secret from you, could it?" she asked.

"I like to think I'm that way," he said.

"You think a lot of me," she said. "Would you talk to save me from
torture?"

A bead of sweat popped out on Jack's forehead as he thought it
over. "That's a double curse," he said grimly. "You'd prefer
torture to misloyalty and I'd be torn between the two because it is
against all natural instincts for a male to harm a female. That's a
forty-thousand-year heritage, Jenna."

"Well," she said, "I'm in that position but I'm without the means to
say the word and relieve his torture."

"And he," said Grant, with feeling, "is pretty much in the same boat."

"Before this all happened there was enough to outweigh any doubt. But
I'm practically accused of treachery."

Grant smiled tolerantly. "Most of that is in your own mind," he said
gently. "You've kept your fears bottled up too long, and they're
fermenting into all sorts of questionings and worries."

"Then I'm not really under suspicion?"

Grant laughed. "My dear, if they're reading your mind without your
will, that's not treachery. Frankly, I've studied the problem myself,
and I know that such is impossible. In no known science has there
ever been a situation where a transmitter can be heard without the
transmitter aware of its output. By 'transmitter' I mean people
talking, men holding radioactives, radio, subradio, light, sound, and
fury. Furthermore, since unwitting aid is ruled out, if such aid is
given, it is given willingly. And that, Jenna, I refuse to believe."

"Truly?" she pleaded.

"I'll stake my life on it," he said. "All the evidence may be damning
but somehow, it's too pat. Coincidence may be a little strained, but
far from improbable in any sense. Fact of the matter is, Jenna, there's
no sense in going out on the Q-T. I'm going out with all recorders open
and working furiously, I'm going to record not only my ideas, but my
transient thoughts and my overt acts. I'll show 'em a bold front. And,
by showing a bold front, I'll win. And if I do not, you'll all know
just what goes on and you'll know how to act on the next one."

Grant laughed and shook the girl gently. He removed a handkerchief from
his breast pocket and dabbed her wet eyes with it, and told her to get
that elfin chin up again.

"Thanks," she whispered, the tears welling up again. "Thanks, Jack ...
for ... faith!"

       *       *       *       *       *

When the door opened to admit Lindsay, her face was once more composed.
She put down her cigarette and said: "Any ideas, Ralph?"

His worried face grew darker. "It seems to get down to the problem of
defusing a bomb that explodes when you approach it with that intent."

Grant laughed. "As I said before, we can detonate 'em but it's hard on
the personnel."

"Oh, Jack!" cried Jenna.

"Well," he grinned, "it's true. And regardless of whether we lose a few
fellows who'd prefer death anyway, we are most definitely keeping the
production areas uncontaminated. That's something."

Lindsay scowled. "It's not good enough," he said. "A man's life should
be worth more than that."

Grant shook his head. "It's more than mere production, Ralph.
Production means many lives. And is one man's life worth more than many
men's?"

"To me, my life is."

Grant laughed, taking the sting out of his matter-of-fact statement,
"You're selfish."

Lindsay nodded glumly. "I admit it. How're you going to tackle that
one out there?"

"Boldly, brashly, and brazenly. Whatever agency is manipulating these
things will find me slightly different. I hope I'm confusing enough to
make them wonder."

"I wish--" said Lindsay.

"Forget it," said Jack. "I've got to go, and there's little sense in
stewing about it. I'll be back, and then we can handle the rest of
these things with ease. No chin up, fella. You're in the hot spot of
doing a hard job."

"I know," he muttered.

When he looked up, Grant had left.

Lindsay passed his hand over his face with the gesture of a completely
baffled and worn-out man. He looked up at his wife. "Jenna," he
pleaded, "is there--?"

"Don't you trust me, Ralph?"

"My whole being cries out to trust you, Jenna. But there is still
wonder."

"There is nothing I can say that will erase that. Nothing. If I am
actress enough to play treachery, I'm also liar enough to swear a false
oath."

Lindsay nodded.

"Nothing," she repeated dully.

"You think a lot of Grant," he said flatly.

"I've loved them all," she said.

"Grant more than the rest."

"Jack, despite his hard exterior, is an understanding soul."

"That may save him," muttered Lindsay.

"Ralph!"

The jocular voice of Jack Grant broke in: "I'm taking off in the battle
buggy now."

"And then again it may not," said Lindsay harshly.

"I'm not a machine, Ralph. I'm a woman."

"So was Circe!"

"Is that what you think of me?"

The loudspeaker chattered: "This is no road for a human being, folks.
They paved it with rubble, I think. My tools are rattling around like
mad. If any agency is using anything for detection, they're listening
to the rattle of machinery in this battle buggy."

Jenna and Ralph faced the radio panel and both hated it for its flat
tones. But they could not turn it off.

"He'll go like Roberts, like Harris," snarled Lindsay. "Like--Lacy."

"No!"

"We'll see," he said tritely.

       *       *       *       *       *

Silence fell, and then the voice again: "I'm approaching the thing.
Y'know, it's fearfully quiet out here with the area evacuated and all
machinery stopped. The wall shields make the landscape unreal, like the
ghost-sequence in a horror movie. Terra was never intended to be seen
under a greenish light. You know how people look under mercury vapor
lights? That's how Terra looks, sort of."

"Jenna?"

"Yes Ralph."

"You're not ... you're not--?"

"What can I say?" she pleaded. "I'm only human."

He looked up bitterly. The question was in his eyes. He did not need
to voice it. Jenna knew what he was thinking. And he knew that she
understood, for the hurt was in her eyes.

"Hey!" came Grant's voice. "I've got us a mascot! C'mere, Ears. Nice
fella. 'Tis a woebegone pup, spaniel. Lonely and aching for someone to
scratch his tummy. Up, Ears! You're my good luck! The mutt is sitting
on the seat like he knew what it was all about. A sharp little rascal.
I'll bring him home to you."

Jack drove on, one hand on the wheel and the right hand on the dog's
head, stroking gently. _Who_, he wondered, _would leave a pet in a
contaminated area? Abandoned to something that no dog could possibly
understand._

And he thought, briefly, that he and the dog were in the same boat.

"You can carry my tool bag," he told the pup over the rumble of the
battle buggy.

Jenna and Ralph listened to Grant talking to the dog. The man rattled
on, speaking lightly, caressingly to the animal, and his words were
banal to the tensity in the scanning room.

"I wish I knew," said Lindsay.

"Ralph, stop it!" cried his wife. "Stop playing around the point. If
you think I'm guilty, come out and say so!"

"I'm ... not certain."

"Have you no faith in me?"

"Jenna, I--"

"Folks, I'm stopping the buggy, and Ears and I will go over and see
that thing right now. So far, there's been no mental disturbances,
Jenna. That's the one thing I'm watching for."

Lindsay looked at her.

"I don't feel anything," she said. He wondered, again, and it was in
his face.

Her voice went out, and Grant answered. "If either of us feel
anything--?"

"I'll let you know," she promised.

"Will you?" muttered her husband.

"I will," she blazed at him.

"Lindsay," snapped Grant, "get off of it! Jenna has no more treachery
in her soul than I have, and I know my own heart!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph Lindsay calmed. Jenna looked at him and knew that the man
outside was a sort of safety valve. Her husband was on the verge of
breakdown, she guessed, and she was in a nervous state herself. The
man out there had been holding the group together for hours, now. What
would happen if he went--?

"No!" she pleaded.

But something inside of her knew that he would go, like the rest.

"No!" she said with a half-scream.

"'No' what?" asked Lindsay.

"Grant mustn't!"

Lindsay looked at her. "Isn't that his job?" he said flatly.

"Yes, but--"

"Perhaps you can fix it," said her husband cynically. She looked at him
in disbelief. Was this the man she loved?

Then he turned the knife in the wound. "Or," he said vindictively, "is
that _your_ job?"

"Lindsay, shut up, you fool!"

Lindsay opened his mouth and then closed it again. "Trouble with you,
Lindsay, is that you've a rankle or two in your system which should
have been burned out a long time ago. You poor fool, don't you know
that every man reaches a crossroad every day? There's not one of us
who mustn't give up something to get something else. That's why we
have asylums--for people who can't make up their minds, or people who
dislike their decisions and try to go back, mentally. The normal man
accepts his decision and uses that as experience in making the next
one, instead of sitting there, spending his life wondering what if
he'd taken the other road. Add up your life, Lindsay, and see whether
the credits are better than the debits. You can't have everything!"

Then the tone of his voice changed.

"I'm leaving the battle buggy now, and Ears and I are approaching the
thing. I have no fear of it, really. I'm ... curious. What makes these
things go off? This, fellers, is a physical phenomenon, developed by
human beings--"

"Martians," corrected Lindsay.

"They're classified as human," snapped Grant. "And a lot of them are
more human than the pure-white Terran. Spinach, I call it. Anyway,
there is a simple explanation for all this and when it is uncovered,
all of your rantings and ravings will go to pieces like a bit of
charred paper. Call it telepathy if you want--I'm not discounting
though I'm skeptical--but I don't feel any warnings yet."

Jenna sat down, closed her eyes, and composed her body into a relaxed
pose. She said nothing. Lindsay noted, and said: "Keep it coming,
Grant."

"Well," said Grant, "we're at the critical hundred feet, Ears and I.
Come here, mutt! That thing is dangerous! Dog doesn't care, folks.
Y'know, there's nothing like having a mutt around to teach you faith.
Jenna?"

She opened her eyes. "Yes?"

"I'm going in! You're Martian and you're sensitive. Maybe you can catch
the backwash if there's any mental shenanigans."

"I'll try."

"Believe it now?" called Lindsay.

"Not entirely. But I'm not missing any bets. Now, I am taking my little
hatchet in one hand and I'm going out to ... _Jenna! You--!_"

The storm burst, the sky flared bright, and the waves of sheer energy
beat the ship, stormed in through the windows and the radiation counter
shrilled madly. The pillar of fire mounted like a rolling cloud,
reaching for the sun.

"Grant," said Lindsay with a dry throat.

Jenna sobbed.

"What did he mean?" demanded Lindsay.

Jenna shook away her tears, swallowed deeply. "I know," she said. "I
know."

"You--?"

"I caught it," she said.

"Then it was you," he snapped harshly. "Tell me, Jenna, what kind of
enticement did you use to get him going?"

"You fool," she snarled at him. "Blind, stupid fool." She stood up,
blazing. "Yes," she said. "I've taken all you gave me, and took it
gladly, happily. And I hoped that I could make up to you for ...
for ... causing your loss. Yet you've never forgotten that I'm Martian,
and that if you'd married a Terran you could have the plaudits and the
admiration due any fighting officer. That's rankled in your soul until
you hate me!" she screamed. "And what could I do? I'd have made it up
to you," she said, her voice quieting, "but I didn't know how. And now
you think I'm responsible. Well," she said accusingly, "how do I know
but that you are planning revenge on Terra for being blind."

"Jenna, you--"

"Well, I do know. And if you think that I'm--"

"What do you want me to think?" he asked her. "What were Grant's last
words?"

"He--"

"Accused you!"

Jenna turned quietly. She stopped at the door. "I solved one fuse
because I thought Martian," she said quietly. "I'll solve the next
one for you! You've wanted to be free to join the Corps in space.
Then follow me close, because when I solve this one there will be no
question."

"Jenna--what is it?"

"It is the fuse itself," she said. "A rudimentary brain that reacts
upon receiving any thought of removal when that thought originates
within a hundred feet or so."

"Utterly fantastic!"

"Is it?" she asked. "Watch!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Jenna passed through the door and left. Moments later, the whine of a
skyplane crescendoed and diminished. Jenna was heading for the next
site. Lindsay sat for a long time, his mind whirling.

Jenna was right. He'd been fretting over his denial of the right to
command. It hadn't been fair. A group of psychoneurotics--commanded by
one. Himself. Not denied the right to command because of his wife, but
because of his psychotic nature. For one, any Terran who would enter
a mixed-marriage was not possessed of the normal adjustment, and the
same true of any Martian. Secondly, were he normal, fighting in combat
would produce a psychotic condition since he'd be set against his
wife's countrymen.

He leaped up and ran to the driving panel. Harshly he threw the
autopilot out of gear and took the controls himself. The ship took off
raggedly and hissed through the upper air, racing.

"Jenna!" he called into the radio.

No answer.

"Jenna! Turn on your receiver! Please," he begged.

No answer.

His trembling hands turned up the power and the ship shuddered at the
overload drive. The upper air shrilled against rivet head and port
sill. The burble point came and the ship shook and rattled terribly.
Yet he knew that he had but an even chance. For Jenna was driving a
superspeed plane that could race as fast as the big ship--with less
danger in atmosphere.

No spacecraft was made to travel horizontally across a planet. But
Ralph Lindsay in a frenzy, swore at the sidelong pace, and turned his
ship to arrow through the upper air. The burble died, but throughout
the ship came the rattle of falling objects, dumped from table and
shelf.

He continued to cry into the microphone, and strained his ears for the
answer that was not there.

He depressed the nose of the ship and went into a steep, screaming dive.

He--saw her. A minute speck, even through the telescope.

And at the moment he saw her, she stepped from the plane onto the
ground, and spoke to him through the radio.

"I've no receiver on, Ralph. But listen--and stay back!"

"Jenna!" he screamed.

"Your duty, remember?" she said quietly. "It is to solve these--things.
Your duty, I took away, and now I will return it."

"Jenna!" he pleaded. "I don't want--"

In futility, he gave up. She could not hear. An hypnosis took him, held
him in its grip.

"Ralph," she said. "Watch carefully."

He shook himself.

Angrily, he fought the controls. Madly he tried to urge another dyne
from the drivers. He would be--too late.

"Jenna! Don't!"

"Ralph, I'm approaching the bomb. I am now seventy feet from it. See?"

Seventy feet?

"I'm seventy feet from it, Ralph, because I've thought only of you. Not
once have I thought of defus--"

The blast caught the diving ship and stopped it in its tracks, turned
it end for end and sent it rocketing crazily away from the mad scene
of turbulence. It arched high into the sky, tumbling. Numb, Lindsay
reacted automatically. War, hatred, suspicion. All boiled up in his
mind.

The answer? It was clear, finally. The how and the why and the
wherefore. His problem--solved.

But the solution was bitter in his mouth.

Instinctively driving the ship toward the next site Lindsay's eyes
still saw the pathetic figure silhouetted against that intolerable
blast. Solution? She had given him both solutions.

His mind went back through the years. She'd been his, completely.
He'd known all the happiness any man needed. Now he was free to take
his place--and he didn't want it. What was honor? A mind, clinging to
its own ideals. Was there more honor in clinging to his choice or in
becoming a public figure, abandoning his choice.

No, Jenna hadn't given it to him. He'd taken it.

More balance, more sensible evaluation of his own set of desires would
have kept him from driving her--

       *       *       *       *       *

He landed his ship flatwise, furrowing the ground. Blindly, he looked
across the field toward the--ticking thing.

"Blast!" he snarled at the thing.

He selected tools. Then he faced it again. "Go ahead. Explode."
Briefly, he wondered how it would feel--and if any feeling were
possible in microseconds.

"I'm coming," he told it.

He hit it a ringing blow with a sledge hammer. "Blast!" he cried
angrily.

Down within the robomb, a lacery lacework of silver in a mass of
complex hydrocarbon dielectrics sent impulses along flowing filaments
of metal to other shapeless tangles of silver globs. Countercurrents
flowed back and the filaments of metal became a tangled highway of
multi-purposed impulses. Countercurrents canceled and mixed with
flowing currents, creating new wave shapes that flowed in both
directions from the mixing point, and the silver-shot masses at either
end of the multitudinous filamentary transmission lines accepted the
false wave shapes, became confused by their unfamiliarity, and sent
forth more shapes of meaningless nature.

It was unable to cope with a situation whereby it was commanded to
explode. The right act--upon that stimulus--had not been taught--built
into--it.

And still the thoughts beat upon the rudimentary brain.

Lindsay climbed atop the thing. "Blast!" he screamed.

The leering face of a Martian looked up at him, and smiled sneeringly.
Lindsay snapped his cutting torch and thrust the white-hot flame in
the Martian's eye, and the face distorted and became Jenna. She lifted
a hand and pushed the flame away. It went, cutting the hard metal
around her face. Characters were burned in her forehead, and he read
them without understanding. Tiny hands came out through the cut in the
metal and wiped Jenna's face from the top of the fuse. They took the
white-hot flame in their hands and directed it.

He lifted. He struck at Jack Grant's laughing face with a bar and drove
it loose.

"Blast," he told Jack Grant.

Violently, he pried upon the thing. It came up slowly, like Circe,
rising out of the sea--or was it Venus--or Jenna. It was exquisitely
formed, delicately shaped, but his hands took it and crushed the softly
curving figure into a geometrical cylinder, and the softness left it as
he lifted it out of the body of the bomb.

From the vacant hole there came a small flow of neutrons and they
registered on the counter he wore.

Lindsay jumped down, the mists clearing. He looked at the thing in
his hands and laughed. The laugh welled up and broke into a wild sob.
Lindsay crumpled to the ground, holding the fuse in his lap and crying
over it.

He cried with grief, raved at his own madness. He ignored his own loss,
for had he admitted that, he would have gone mad once more.

Paradox, paradox. He--who had tried to force death--was unable to do
so. He was alone and a failure. He hurled the fuse at the vast shell of
the robomb.

"Stinking failure," he snarled at it. Then came clearness. He picked up
the fuse once more and looked at it. Somewhere in his cloud of madness
he had succeeded in defus--

The auxiliary detonator went BANG! and startled him from the
last hazy mists of madness into cold reality.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once back in the loneliness of his ship, he called Haynes. He reported
all, in a dull voice and asked for help. Later, the help came to find
Lindsay working over the two-ended artificial mind, measuring minute
electronic impulses and stimulating the nodules of the filamentary
connectors to see what happened. From this sample, he knew that the
Terran Technical Corps could devise a means of confusing the mental
fuses in other robombs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ralph Lindsay concluded his lecture to the members of his reconstructed
Decontamination Squadron. Then he turned away from them and a
bitterness twisted his mouth as he looked up into the sky at the flight
squadron that was passing overhead.

It still was not for Lindsay.

He picked up the counter-mentapath and started the battle buggy across
the rough field toward the waiting Martian robomb. In the back of his
mind was a half-formed prayer that some day he might find one too
complicated for him. But until that day he would search for that peace
he knew that he would never find.


                               THE END.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE UNDAMNED ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
