The Project Gutenberg eBook of Way of the gods, by Henry Kuttner

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Way of the gods

Author: Henry Kuttner

Release Date: June 23, 2022 [eBook #68378]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan, Alex White & the online
             Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at
             https://www.pgdpcanada.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAY OF THE GODS ***





                            WAY OF THE GODS

                           By HENRY KUTTNER

            _Spawn of atomic fission, this strange company
             of mutants exiled by humanity battles against
              enslavement in a foreign world dominated by
               the evil Spirit of the Crystal Mountain!_

           [Transcriber’s Note: This etext was produced from
                 Thrilling Wonder Stories, April 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                               CHAPTER I

                             _New Worlds_


He looked at the October morning all about him as if he had never seen
October before. That was not true, of course. But he knew that he would
never see it again. Unless they had mornings, and Octobers—where he was
going. It did not seem likely, though the old man had talked a great
deal about key-patterns and the selectivity of the machine, and the
multiple universes spinning like motes in a snowstorm through infinity.

“But I’m human!” he said aloud, sitting cross-legged on the warm brown
earth and feeling the breeze which gave the lie instantly to his
thought. He felt the gentle pull at his shoulder-blades which meant that
his wings were fluttered a little by the breeze, and instinctively he
flexed the heavy bands of muscle across his chest to control the
wing-surfaces.

He was not human. That was the trouble. And this world, this bright
October world that stretched to the horizon around him was made to
shelter the race that had become dominant, and was jealous of its
dominion. Humanity, that had no place for strangers among its ranks.

The others did not seem to care very much. They had been reared in the
creche almost from birth, under a special regime that isolated them from
the humans. The old man had been responsible for that. He had built the
huge house on the hillside, swooping curves of warmly-colored plastic
that blended into the brown and green of the land—an asylum that had
finally failed. The walls were breached.

“Kern,” someone behind him said.

The winged man turned his head, glancing up past the dark curve of his
wings. A girl came toward him down the slope from the house. Her name
was Kua. Her parents had been Polynesian, and she had the height and the
lithe grace of her Oceanic race, and the shining dark hair, the warm,
honey-colored skin. But she wore opaque dark glasses, and across her
forehead a band of dark plastic that looked opaque too, and was not.
Beneath, her face was lovely, the red mouth generously curved, the
features softly rounded like the features of all her race.

She was not human either.

“It’s no use worrying, Kern,” she said, smiling down at him. “It’ll work
out all right. You’ll see.”

“All right!” Kern snorted scornfully. “You think so, do you?”

Kua glanced instinctively around the hillside, making sure they were
alone. Then she put both hands to her face and slipped off the glasses
and the dark band from her forehead. Kern, meeting the gaze of her
bright blue eye, was conscious again of the little shock he always felt
when he looked into her uncovered face.

For Kua was a cyclops. She had one eye centered in her forehead. And she
was—when the mind could accept her as she was, not as she should be—a
beautiful woman in spite of it. That blue brilliance in the dusky face
had a depth and luster beyond the eyes of humans. Heavy lashes ringed
it, and the gaze could sink fathom upon fathom in her eye and never
plumb its depths.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Kua’s eye was a perfect lens. Whatever lens can do, her eye could do. No
one could be sure just what miraculous mechanisms existed beyond the
blue surface, but she could see to a distance almost beyond the range of
the ordinary telescope and she could focus down upon the microscopic.
And there may have been other things the single eye could do. One did
not question one’s companions too closely in this house of the
mutations.

“You’ve been with us two years, Kern,” she was saying now. “Only two
years. You don’t know yet how strong we are, or how much we can
accomplish among us. Bruce Hallam knows what he’s doing, Kern. He never
works on theories. Or if he does, the theories become truth. He has a
mind like that. You don’t know us, Kern!”

“You can’t fight a whole world.”

“No. But we can leave it.” She smiled, and he knew she saw nothing of
the golden morning all around them. She knew nothing, really, of the
cities that dotted the world of 1980, or the lives that were so
irrevocably alien to her. They should have been alien to Kern too, but
not until he was eighteen had the wings begun to grow upon his
shoulders.

“I don’t know, Kua,” he said. “I’m not sure I want to. I had a father
and a mother—brothers—friends.”

“Your parents are your greatest enemies,” she told him flatly. “They
gave you life.”

He looked away from the penetrating stare of that great blue single eye
and past her at the big plastic house. That had been asylum, after the
massacre of 1967—asylum against the hordes bent on extirpating the
freakish monsters created by atomic radiation. He could not remember, of
course, but he had read about it, never guessing then that such a thing
would ever apply to him. The old man had told him the story.

First had come the atomic war, brief, terrible, letting loose nameless
radiations upon the world. And then had followed the wave upon wave of
freak births among those exposed to it. Genes and chromosomes altered
beyond comprehension. Monstrous things were born of human parents.

One in ten, perhaps, had been a successful mutation. And even those were
dangerous to homo sapiens.

Evolution is like a roulette wheel. The conditions of the earth favor
certain types of mutation capable of survival. But atomic energies had
upset the balance, and mutations spawned in sheer madness began to
spread. Not many, of course. Not many were viable. But two-headed things
were born—and lived—along with geniuses and madmen. World Council had
studied the biological and social problem for a long time before it
recommended euthanasia. Man’s evolution had been planned and charted. It
must not be allowed to swerve from the track, or chaos would be let
loose.

Geniuses, mutant humans with abnormally high I.Q.’s, were allowed to
survive. Of the others, none lived after they had been detected.
Sometimes they were difficult to detect. By 1968 only the true-line
mutations, faithful to the human biological norm, were alive—with
certain exceptions.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Such as the old man’s son, Sam Brewster. He was a freak, with a
certain—talent. A superhuman talent. The old man had disobeyed the
Government law, for he had not sent the infant to the labs for checking
and testing—and annihilation. Instead, he had built this great house,
and the boy had never gone far beyond its grounds.

Gradually then, partly to provide the youth with companionship, partly
out of compassion, the father had begun to gather others together.
Secretly, a mutant infant here, a mutant child there, he brought them
in, until he had a family of freaks in the big plastic house. He had not
taken them haphazardly. Some would not have been safe to live with. Some
were better dead from the start But those with something to offer beyond
their freakishness, he found and sheltered.

It was the bringing in of Kern that gave the secret away. The boy had
gone too long among ordinary humans, while his wings grew. He was
eighteen, and his pinions had a six-foot spread, when old Mr. Brewster
found him. His family had tried to keep him hidden, but the news was
leaking out already when he left for the Brewster asylum, and in the
years since it had spread until the authorities at last issued their
ultimatum.

“It was my fault,” Kern said bitterly. “If it hadn’t been for me, you’d
never have been molested.”

“No.” Kua’s deep, luminous eye fixed his. “Sooner or later you know
they’d have found us. Better let it happen now, while we’re all still
young and adaptable. We can go and enjoy going, now.” Her voice shook a
little with deep excitement. “Think of it, Kern! New worlds! Places
beyond the earth, where there could be people like us!”

“But Kua, I’m human! I feel human. I don’t want to leave. This is where
I belong!”

“You say that because you grew up among normal people. Kern, you’ve got
to face it. Tire only place for any of us is—somewhere away.”

“I know.” He grinned wryly. “But I don’t have to like it. Well—we’d
better go back. They’ll have the ultimatum by now, I suppose. May as
well hear it. I know what the answer is. Don’t you?”

She nodded, watching his involuntary glance around the empty blue sky,
the warm October hills. A world for humans. But for humans alone....

Back in the Brewster plastic asylum, the inmates had assembled.

“There isn’t much time,” old Mr. Brewster said. “They’re on their way
here now, to take you all back for euthanasia.”

Sam Brewster laughed harshly.

“We could show ’em a few tricks.”

“No. You can’t fight the whole world. You could kill many of them, but
it wouldn’t do any good. Bruce’s machine is the only hope for you all.”
His voice broke a little. “It’s going to be a lonely world for me,
children, after you’ve gone.”

They looked at him uncomfortably, this strange, unrelated family of
freak mutations, scarcely more than the children he had called them, but
matured beyond their years by their strange rearing.

“There are worlds beyond counting, as you know,” Bruce said precisely.
“Infinite numbers—worlds where we might not be freaks at all. Somewhere
among them there must be places where each of our mutations is a norm.
I’ve set the machine to the aggregate pattern of us all and it’ll find
our equivalents—something to suit one of us at least. And the others
can go on looking. I can build the machine in duplicate on any world,
anywhere, where I can live at all.” He smiled, and his strange light
eyes glowed.

It was curious, Kern thought, how frequently in mutations the eyes were
the giveaway. Kua, of course. And Sam Brewster with his terrible veiled
glance protected by its secondary lid which drew back only in anger. And
Bruce Hallam, whose strangeness was not visible but existed only in the
amazing intricacies of his brain, looked upon the alien world with eyes
that mirrored the mysteries behind them.

Bruce knew machinery—call it machinery for lack of a more comprehensive
word—with a knowledge that was beyond learning. He could produce
miracles with any set of devices his fingers could contrive. He seemed
to sense by sheer instinct the courses of infinite power, and harness
them with the simplest ease, the simplest mechanics.

There was a steel cubicle in the corner of the room with a round steel
door which had taken Bruce a week to set up. Over it a panel burned with
changing light, flickering through the spectrum and halting now and then
upon clear red. When it was red, then the—the world—upon which the
steel door opened was a world suitable for the little family of
mutations to enter. The red light meant it could support human life,
that it paralleled roughly the world they already knew, and that
something in its essential pattern duplicated the pattern of at least
one of the mutant group.

Kern was dizzy when he thought of the sweep of universes past that door,
world whirling upon world where no human life could dwell, worlds of gas
and flame, worlds of ice and rock. And, one in a countless number, a
world of sun and water like their own....

                 *        *        *        *        *

It was incredible. But so were the wings at his own back, so was Kua’s
cyclopean eye, and Sam Brewster’s veiled gaze, and so was the brain in
Bruce Hallam’s skull, which had built a bridge for them all.

He glanced around the group. Sitting back against the wall, in shadow,
Byrna, the last of the mutant family, lifted her gray gaze to his.
Compassion touched him as always when he met her eyes.

Byrna was physically the most abnormal of them all, in her sheer
smallness. She came scarcely to Kern’s elbow when she was standing. She
was proportioned perfectly in the scale of her size, delicate, fragile
as something of glass. But she was not beautiful to look at. There was a
wrongness about her features that made them pathetically ugly, and the
sadness in her gray eyes seemed to mirror the sadness of all misfit
things.

Byrna’s voice had magic in it, and so did her brain. Wisdom came as
simply to her as knowledge came to Bruce Hallam, but she had infinitely
more warmth than he. Bruce, Kern sometimes thought, would dismember a
human as dispassionately as he would cut wire in two if he needed the
material for an experiment. Bruce looked the most normal of them all,
but he would not have passed the questioning of the most superficial
mental examination.

Now his voice was impatient. “What are we waiting for? Everything’s
ready.”

“Yes, you must go quickly,” the old man said. “Look—the light’s coming
toward red now, isn’t it?”

The panel above the steel door was orange. As they watched it shifted
and grew ruddier. Bruce went silently forward and laid his hand on the
lever that opened the panel. When the light was pure red he pushed the
steel bar down.

In half-darkness beyond the opening a gust of luminous atoms blew across
a craggy horizon. Against it there was a suggestion of towers and arches
and columns, and lights that might have been aircraft swung in steady
orbits above.

No one spoke. After a moment Bruce closed the door again, grimacing. The
light above it hovered toward a reddish purple and then turned blue.

“Not that world,” Bruce said. “We’ll try again.”

In the shadow Byrna murmured:

“It doesn’t matter—any world will be the same for us.” Her voice was
pure music.

“Listen! Do you hear planes?” the old man said. “It’s time, children.
You must go.”

There was silence. Every eye watched the lighted panel. Colors hovered
there to and fro through the spectrum. A faint ruddiness began to glow
again.

“This time we’ll take it if it looks all right,” Bruce said, and laid
his hand again upon the lever.

The light turned red. Soundlessly the round door swung open.

Sunlight came through, low green hills, and the clustered roofs of a
town were visible a little distance away in a valley.

Without a word or a backward glance Bruce stepped through the door. One
by one the others moved after him, Kern last. Kern’s lips were pressed
together and he did not glance behind him. He could have seen the hills
of earth beyond the windows, and the blue October sky. He would not look
at them. He shrugged his wings together and stooped to enter the gateway
of the new world.

Behind them the old man watched in silence, seeing the work of his
lifetime ending before his eyes. The gulf between them was too broad for
leaping. He was human and they were not. Across a vast distance, vaster
than the gulf between worlds, he saw the family of the mutations step
over their threshold and vanish forever.

He closed the door after them. The red light faded above it. He turned
toward his own door where the knocking of World Council’s police had
already begun to summon him to his accounting.




                              CHAPTER II

                            _His Own Kind_


Above them, the sky was blue. The five aliens who were alien to all
worlds alike stood together on a hilltop looking down.

“It’s beautiful,” Kua said. “I’m glad we chose this one. But I wonder
what the next one would have been like if we could have waited.”

“It will be the same no matter where we go,” Byrna’s infinitely sweet
voice murmured.

“Look at the horizon,” Bruce said. “What is it?”

They saw then the first thing that marked this world alien to earth. For
the most part it might have been any hilly wooded land they knew from
the old place; even the roofs of the village looked spuriously familiar.
But the horizon was curiously misted, and before them, far off,
rose—something—to an impossible height halfway up the zenith.

“A mountain?” Kern asked doubtfully. “It’s too high, isn’t it?”

“A glass mountain,” Kua said. “Yes, it is glass—or plastic? I can’t be
sure.”

She had uncovered her single eye and the shining pupil was contracted as
she gazed over impossible distances at the equally impossible bulk of
that thing on the horizon. It rose in a vast sweep of opalescent color,
like a translucent thundercloud hanging over the whole land. Knowing it
for a mountain, the mind felt vertiginous at the thought of such
tremendous bulk towering overhead.

“It looks clear,” Kua said. “All the way through. I can’t tell what’s
beyond it. Just an enormous mountain made out of—of plastic? I wonder.”

Kern was aware of a tugging at his wing-surfaces, and glanced around in
quick recognition of the strengthening breeze. He was the first to
notice it.

“It’s beginning to blow. And listen—do you hear?”

It grew louder as they stood there, a shrill, strengthening whine in the
air coming from the direction of the cloudlike mountain. A whine that
grew so rapidly they had scarcely recognized it as noise before it was
deafening all about them, and the wind was like a sudden hurricane.

That passed in a gust, noise and wind alike, leaving them breathless and
staring at one another in dismay.

“Look, over there, quick!” Kua said, “Another one’s coming!”

Far off, but moving toward them with appalling speed, came a monstrous
spinning tower of—light? Smoke? They could not be sure.

It whirled like a waterspout in a typhoon, vast, bending majestically
and righting itself again, and the air spun with it, and the wild,
shrill screaming began again.

The vortex of brilliance passed them far to the left, catching them in
its shrieking hurricane of riven air and then releasing them again into
shaken silence. But there was another one on its way before they had
caught their breath again, a whirling, bowing tower that spun screeching
off toward the right. And after it another, and close behind that, a
fourth.

The noise and the violence of the wind stunned Kern so that he had no
idea what was happening to the others on the hilltop. He was susceptible
because of his wings. The hurricane caught him up and whirled him
sideward down the slope—shrieking in his ears with a noise so great it
was almost silence, beyond the range of sound.

Stunned, he struggled for balance, leaning against the rushing wall of
air as solid as a wall of stone. For a moment or two he kept the ground
underfoot. Then his wings betrayed him and, in spite of himself, he felt
the six-foot pinions blown wide and the muscles ached across his chest
with the violence of the wind striking their spread surfaces.

The horizon tilted familiarly as he swooped in a banking curve. The
glass mountain for a moment hung overhead and he looked straight down at
the wooded hills, seeing tiny blowing figures reeling across the slopes
in the grip of the hurricane winds. Hanging here far above the treetops,
he could see that the monsters of whirling light were coming thicker and
faster across the hilltops, striding like giants, trailing vortices of
wind and sound in their wake. For an instant he swung in the grip of the
hurricane, watching the vast whirling spindles moving and bowing
majestically across the face of the new earth.

Then the vortex caught him again and he was spun blindly into the heart
of the whirlwind, deafened with its terrible screaming uproar, wrenched
this way and that upon aching wings, too dizzy for fear or thought. Time
ceased. Half senseless, he was whirled to and fro upon the irresistible
winds. He closed his eyes against flying dust, locked his hands over his
ears to shut out the deafening shrill of the blast and let the hurricane
do with him as it would.

Kern felt a hand on his arm and roused himself out of a half-stupor.

He thought, I must be on the ground again, and made an instinctive
effort to sit up. The motion threw him into a ludicrous spin and he
opened his eyes wide to see the earth whirling far below him.

He was coasting at terrific speed through the upper air upon a cold,
screaming highway of wind, and moving easily beside him, riding on broad
pinions like his own, a girl paralleled his flight.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Long pale hair streamed behind her away from her blue-eyed face, whipped
to pinkness by the blast. She was calling something to him, but the
words were snatched from her lips by the wind and he heard nothing
except that shrill, continuous howling all around them. He could see
that she held him by one arm, and with her free hand was pointing
downward vehemently. He could not hear her words, and knew he probably
could not understand them if he did, but the gesture’s meaning he could
not mistake.

Nodding, he shrugged his left wing high and arched his body for a long
downward spiral toward the ground. The girl turned with him, and
together they glided sidewise across the rushing air-currents,
delicately tacking against the wind, picking their way by instinctive
muscular reactions of the spread pinions, while below them the ground
swayed and turned like a fluid sea.

[Illustration: Together they glided across the rushing air currents.]

Kern glided downward on a wave of exultation like nothing he had ever
experienced before in his life. He knew little about this world or about
the girl beside him, but one thing stood out clearly—he was no longer
alone. No longer the only winged being on an alien planet. And this long
downward glide, like the motion of perfect dancers responding each to
the other’s most delicate motion, was the most satisfying thing he had
ever known.

For the first time he realized one of the great secrets of a flying
race—to fly alone is to know only half the joy of flying. When another
winged being moves beside you on the airways, speed matching speed,
wings beating as one, then at last you taste the full ecstasy of flight.

Kern was breathless with joy and excitement when the ground swooped up
at them and he banked against the rush of his glide. With suddenly
fluttering wings, he reversed his position in the air and felt with both
feet for the solid earth. He had to run a little to cut down his speed,
and the girl ran beside him, breathless and laughing a bit as she ran.

When they came to a halt and swung to face one another the long ashen
hair blew forward in a cloud that had caught up with her at last, and
she fought it, laughing, and brushed back the tangled mass with both
hands, the pale wings the exact color of her hair folding back from her
shoulders.

He saw now that she wore a tight tunic of some very fine, supple
leather, and long tight boots of the same material. The hilt of a
jeweled knife stood up against her ribs from a jeweled belt.

Around them the wind still blew cold and shrill, but the blast of it was
slackening noticeably and warmth was creeping back little by little into
the air. They stood on a wooded hill, under trees whose whipping
branches added to the tumult of noise, and Kern could see a broad vista
of the land before him, with no more of the vast bending giants of the
hurricane moving across it. The storm must be over, he thought.

The girl spoke. She had a pleasant contralto voice, and the language she
spoke was slightly guttural and of course entirely strange. Kern saw the
surprise and doubt on her face when she saw that he did not understand
her.

“I’m sorry,” he said. “You’re a pretty thing. I wish we could talk to
each other.”

She matched his smile, but the bewilderment deepened on her face.

Kern thought, She can’t believe I don’t know her language. Could that
mean there’s only one tongue spoken in this world? It’s wishful
thinking—I want so much to believe it! Because that might mean the
people here are all winged, and move around so easily that separate
languages haven’t had a chance to evolve.

His heart was beating faster, with an eagerness that he found a little
ludicrous. He had never suspected even in his own dreams how much it
would mean to him to belong at last to a race that could accept him as
one of its own. Bruce Hallam had set his machine in the aggregate
pattern of the whole mutant group, knowing as he did so how unlikely it
was that more than one of them could hope for an equivalent world on a
single planet. But Bruce’s skill being what it was, Kern told himself
there was no reason to be surprised that the expected had happened.

This world was his own. A winged world. He was luckiest and first of the
group to find a place where he belonged. Exultation closed up his throat
with the joy of being no longer alien.

“Or maybe I’m building too much on one example,” he warned himself
aloud. “Are we all winged in this world, girl? Say something, quick. I
want to learn your language! Answer me, girl—are you an alien too, or
is this the world where I belong?”

She laughed at him, recognizing the half-serious tone of his voice
though the words meant nothing. And then her glance went across his
shoulder, and a look of subtle withdrawal crossed her face. She said
something in her guttural tongue and nodded toward the trees behind
Kern.

He turned. A third winged figure was walking toward them under the
still-roaring trees, wings whipped by the wind until the newcomer
staggered now and then when the full blast caught him.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Kern was aware at first only of profound thankfulness. Another winged
person was almost the answer to his remaining doubt. Where there were
two, surely there must be many.

This was a man. Like the girl, he wore thin, tight leather and a dagger
at his belt. His hair was red, and so were his silky wings, but his face
was duskily tanned and Kern caught the flash of sidelong, light eyes as
the man approached them. He saw, too, in another moment, that the
newcomer was a hunchback. Between the shining reddish wings the man’s
back was slightly crooked, so that he looked up at them with his head
awry. He had a young face, with beautiful clear planes, beneath the
darkness of his tan.

“Gerd—” the girl called, and then hesitated. He flashed the light eyes
at her, and Kern decided it was probably his name.

The pale gaze moved back to Kern, and watched him searchingly as the
hunchback fought the wind to the shelter of their tree. The man was
wary, ready for distrust before he so much as saw Kern’s face. It was
odd, in a way.

They talked, the girl excitedly in her contralto voice, guttural words
tumbling over each other. Gerd’s answers were brief, in an unexpectedly
deep tone. Presently he unsheathed his dagger and with it gestured
toward Kern and the valley below them.

Kern bristled a little. There was no need for threats. If these people
were still in a state of undevelopment where knives were their customary
weapon, he was far beyond them in some ways at least. It was not a
pleasant introduction to this world, where he felt himself already
native, to have those first directions pointed out with a bare blade.

The girl, seeing his scowl, laughed gently and came forward to take his
arm. She gestured Gerd away with her other hand, and he smiled grimly
and stood back. The girl fluttered her wings a little and made a
swooping gesture of her hand to indicate flight. She pointed to the
valley. Then she stepped away to the brow of the hill, unfolded her
wings, tested the dying wind with them, and leaned forward with sublime
confidence into the void.

The updraft caught her beneath the pinions and bore her aloft on a
beautiful sweep, her pale hair blowing like a banner. In midair she
twisted to beckon, and Kern laughed in sheer delight and ran to follow
her, spreading his dark wings so that at the fourth stride, with a leap,
suddenly he was airborne. It was a glorious feeling to fly without shame
or need of concealment. He scarcely heard the beat of wings behind him
as the hunchback took to the air in their wake. The joy of flying in
company was great enough just now to shut out all other thoughts from
Kern’s mind.

They swept high along the slow-running river of wind over a winding
valley. Kern, watching for the companions with whom he had entered this
wonderful world, saw no motion at all among the trees they soared over.
He caught sight presently of a cluster of roofs far ahead, at the top of
the valley, built around a stream that wound to and fro among the
houses, and was filled with excited speculation as they neared the
village.

My people, he thought. My own people. What kind of a town will it be,
and what sort of culture? How fast can I learn the language? There’s so
much to find out.

The thought broke in his mind. For something—he had no name for it—was
stirring very strangely through his body.

For an instant the whole airy world went blind around him. It was as if
a new pair of lungs had opened up within him and he had drawn a deep,
full breath of such air as no human ever tasted before. It was as if new
eyes had opened in his head and he had looked on a new dimension with
multiple sight. It was like neither of these, nor was it like anything a
man ever experienced before. New, new, inexpressibly new!

And it was gone.

In flight Kern staggered a little, his wings forgetting to beat the
sustaining air. The thing had come and gone so quickly, and yet it was
not a wholly unfamiliar thing, after all. Once before something like it
had happened. Something, different, but at the time heart-breakingly
new. It was when he first felt the wings thrust out upon his shoulders.
When he first felt the change within himself that cut him off from
mankind.

“Am I changing again?” he asked himself fiercely. “Isn’t the mutation
over yet? I won’t change! I belong here now—I won’t let anything spoil
that!”

The feeling was gone. He could not remember even now what it had been
actually like. He would not change! He would fight change while breath
remained in him. Whatever strange new mutation struggled now for being
in his mysterious flesh he would strangle before he let it come between
him and these people with wings.

It had gone, now. He would forget it. It should be as if it had never
happened.




                              CHAPTER III

                          _Gathering Danger_


Sunlight winked from the diamond-paned windows of the village. They
circled above the rooftops and came in against the wind for a landing on
the high, flat roof of the central building, its open square paved with
tiles painted in bright, crude pictures of flying men and women.

From above Kern could see the cobbled streets winding narrowly past
overhanging eaves, little stone bridges arching the stream that gushed
rapidly down through the village. Flowers were bright in narrow, ordered
bands around the houses. There were steep streets that rose in steps
around the curves of the hill upon which the town was based.

The roofs were steeply pitched, arguing a heavy snowfall in winter, but
each of them had a landing area on the highest part of the house,
usually facing a low door let into a gable. And Kern’s last doubt
departed. This was indeed a village of flying people. He had come into
his own world at last.

His content lasted about five minutes.

Then they came down upon the brightly tiled landing-roof of what was
probably the townhall, and Kern, already fluttering his wings for a
landing, saw something that made him instinctively tighten the
chest-muscles that controlled his wings so that they stiffened into
broad pinions again. He soared and made a second circle about the
rooftop.

The girl had reversed herself and was reaching with one foot for a
landing when she saw what had startled him. She laughed and looked up,
beckoning through the cloud of her settling hair.

Kern made a third circle, fighting the updraft among the houses while he
looked down dubiously at the two dead men sprawled upon the roof. Both
were young and both were winged. The girl walked delicately by them as
if they were not there, settling her wings precisely. She stepped over
the pool of blood, still liquid, that ran from a wound in the nearer
man’s neck, streaked across the width of his quiet pinion, and that
puddled the brilliant tiles with a color of even brighter hue.

There was a measured beating of the air above Kern, and he looked up to
see the hunchback hovering on silky red wings above him. Sunlight
flashed on a bared knife-blade. Gerd gestured down. And there was
something about his poise in the air, the way he handled his muscular,
twisted body, that warned Kern not to precipitate a struggle. It
occurred to him for the first time that fighting in midair must be an
art requiring skills he had never learned—yet.

Gingerly he circled again and came down very lightly at the edge of the
roof, holding his wings half-open until he was sure of his footing. The
girl was waiting for him. She smiled, her blue glance flicking the dead
men. Then she slapped her own dagger significantly, glanced at the
bodies and back at Kern, and with a careless beckoning motion turned to
enter the roof door.

A little dazed, Kern followed. Did she mean she herself had killed them?
What extraordinary sort of culture had he found ready-made for him here?
The first doubts stirring in his mind, he stooped his wings under the
door-frame and groped down a narrow, curving stairway behind the
floating hair of his guide. Behind him he heard Gerd’s feet thump
uncompromisingly from step to step.

Voices came up the stair-well as they descended. At the bottom of the
flight Kern followed the girl into a big stone-paved room,
low-ceilinged, smoky from the fire that blazed in a huge cavern of
whitewashed brick at one end of the roof.

The room was full of the living and the dead. Bewildered. Kern glanced
about at the winged bodies which had obviously been dragged carelessly
out of the center of the room and heaped against the walls. Blood lay in
coagulating pools here and there on the flags. The men about the
fireplace seemed to be debating something in loud voices. They looked up
sharply as the girl entered. Then there was a clattering rush and a
clamor of guttural voices as they hurried to greet her.

Kern made out one word among their sentences that seemed to be her name.

“Elje—Elje!”

Their voices echoed under the low ceiling, their wings made a rustle and
soft clatter as they shouldered together around her. If it had not been
for the unconsidered dead at their feet, Kern would have been happy
without reservation, knowing at last beyond any doubt that this was a
world of the winged.

They were talking about him, obviously. Elje, braiding her disordered
hair, spoke rapidly and glanced from Kern to her companions and back
again. Kern did not wholly like the looks of the men. Without wings,
they would have seemed an undisciplined, violent group. Their faces were
scarred and weather-beaten. All of them wore knives, and they had
clearly been in a hard fight within the last few hours.

Among the dead on the floor there were men without wings. There were
also, he saw now, a few women, some winged, some not. Two races? Somehow
he surmised that was not true; there was a subtle likeness among them
all, the wingless and the winged, that marked them of the same racial
stock.

Presently he began to notice that the unwinged were all either elderly
or adolescent. He remembered that his own wings had not begun to grow
until he was past eighteen. Was it only in their prime that this race
could fly? And would he, with advancing years, lose again this glorious
attribute he had only now begun to enjoy?

                 *        *        *        *        *

The thought damped that surge of exultation which still flooded his mind
beneath the surface bewilderment. And then he grinned wryly to himself,
thinking:

“Maybe it won’t happen. Maybe I won’t live that long!”

For the looks of the grim men around him were not encouraging. If he had
guessed right about a universal language in this world, it was not
strange that his ignorance of it gave them room for suspicion. And in a
village where life was held as cheaply as it was held here, he could
probably expect direct and violent reactions to suspicion.

He was not far wrong. The men spoke among themselves in brawling voices
a moment or two longer, the girl Elje braiding her hair carelessly and
putting in a word now and then. While Kern stood there, debating with
himself what was best to do, the argument came to a swift climax. Elje
called something in a clear voice and, directly behind him, Kern heard a
guttural monosyllable in answer, and the rustle of wings, and felt
something cold and edged laid against the side of his neck.

He stood quite still. Then the hunchback, Gerd, sidled around into his
view, holding the sharp knife with a steady hand against Kern’s jugular.
The pale eyes in the dark young face were steady and full of cold
threat.

Someone moved across the flagstones behind him and Kern felt hands draw
his wrists together, felt the roughness of rope pulled tight around
them. He did not protest. He was too surprised, and too unaccustomed to
violence in his daily life, to know just now what course he should take.
And he was filled still with the thought that these were his own people.

A something heavy and clinging fell suddenly across his wings. He jumped
and looked back. It was a net, which a man with a scarred face and
suspicious, squinting eyes was rapidly knotting together at the base of
his pinions.

The hunchback grunted another monosyllable and drove the point of his
knife against Kern’s shoulder, jerking his red head toward a flight of
stairs across the room. The winged men drew back to let the two pass,
silent now and watching with impassive faces. Elje, finishing the last
of the second braid, tossed the pale silken rope of it across her
shoulder and would not meet Kern’s eyes as he went by.

The stairs twisted unevenly through narrow stone walls. At the third
level the hunchback threw open a heavy, low door and followed Kern into
the room beyond. It was rather a pleasant little place, circular, with
tile-banded walls and a tiled floor. The single window was barred and
looked out over rooftops and distant hills. There was a low bed, a
table, two chairs, nothing more.

The hunchback pushed Kern roughly toward one of the chairs. Both of
them, Kern noticed, had low backs to clear the wings of those who might
sit in them. He sank down and looked at the red-winged man expectantly.
What happened then was the last thing, perhaps, that he might have
expected to hear.

Gerd held out his dagger, level across his palm, pointed to it with the
other hand and growled, “_Kaj_.” He slapped his sheath then, said,
“_Kajen_,” and dropped the dagger into it. His pale eyes bored into
Kern’s.

Unexpectedly, Kern heard himself laughing. Partly it was relief, for he
would not have been surprised to feel the edge of that knife called
_kaj_ sink into his throat once the door had closed behind them.

Instead, apparently this was to be a lesson in language....

Once, in the night, he awoke briefly. Strange stars were shining through
the bars of his window. He thought there was someone stealthily looking
at him from beyond the bars, and sleepily realized that it would take as
great skill to fly in silence as to walk without noise. But he saw no
one. He slept again and dreamed it was Elje at the window, touching the
bars with light fingertips as she smiled in at him in the starlight, her
face dabbled with blood.

For two weeks he saw no one but Gerd. The pale eyes in the dark face
became very familiar to him, and gradually the deep voice became
familiar and understandable too. Gerd was a patient and indefatigable
teacher, and the language was a simple one, made for a simple culture.
Indeed, Kern learned it so rapidly that he began to catch Gerd’s
suspicious sidelong glances, and once, from his door, overheard a
conversation on the stair outside when Gerd and Elje met.

“I think he may be a spy,” the hunchback’s deep guttural said.

Elje laughed. “A spy who doesn’t speak our language?”

“He learns it too readily. I wonder, Elje—The Mountain is cunning.”

“Hush,” was all she answered. But Kern thereafter was careful to pretend
he knew less of the language than he really did.

The Mountain. He thought of that in the long hours when he was alone. A
mountain, strange of shape, the color of clouds, towering halfway up the
heavens. It was more than inert matter, if these winged people spoke of
it with that hush in their voices.

For a fortnight he waited and listened and learned. Once more, in the
night, with the nameless stars looking in at the window, he felt that
inexplicable stirring of, alien life deep within him, and was
frightened. It passed quickly, and was gone too fast for him to put any
name to it, or to remember it clearly afterward. Mutation? Continuing
change, in some unguessable form? He would not think of it.

                 *        *        *        *        *

On the fourteenth night, the Dream came.

He had not thought very much about Bruce Hallam. Kua and the others.
Subconsciously, he did not want to. This was his world and the other
mutants were actually intruders, false notes in the harmony. Danger he
might find here, even death, but it was a winged world, and his own.

There were dreams at night. Voices whispering, whose tones he
half-recognized and would not allow himself to remember when he awoke.
Something was searching for his soul.

Before that final contact on the fourteenth night, he had eavesdropped
enough on other conversations held on the stairs between Gerd and Elje
to understand a little of what went on around him.

Gerd was urging that they leave the town and return somewhere, and Elje
was adamant.

“There’s no danger yet.”

“There is danger whenever we’re away from the eyrie. Not even the
Mountain can guide enemies through the poison winds. Our safety has
always been a quick raid, Elje, and then back to the eyrie. But to stay
here, gorging ourselves—in a _town_—is madness.”

“I like the comfort here,” Elje said naively. “It’s been a long time
since I’ve eaten and drunk so well, and slept on such a bed.”

“You’ll sleep on a harder bed soon, then,” Gerd said dourly. “The towns
will gather. They must know already that we’re here.”

“Are we afraid of the townsmen?”

“When the Mountain walks—” the hunchback said, and left the sentence
unfinished.

Elje’s laughter rang false.

That night, Kern felt seeking fingers try again the doors of his mind,
and this time his subconscious resistance could not keep them out. He
recognized the mind behind that seeking—the infinitely sad, infinitely
wise mind of the mutant Byrna, with the lovely voice and the pale,
unlovely face.

For a moment he floundered, lost in the depths of that intelligence so
much more fathomless than his own. For a moment timeless sorrow washed
him like the waters of the sea. Then he found himself again, and was
looking, somehow, through new and different eyes, into a grassy hollow
filled with starlight. Into Kua’s beautiful honey-colored face and her
great single eye. Into Sam Brewster’s veiled gaze.

Dimly he groped for Bruce Hallam, who had opened the door for them all.
Bruce was missing. And as for Byrna—it was Byrna’s eyes through which
he saw them. Her mind, gripping his like the clasp of hands, cupping his
like a bowl of still water. Soundlessly through space came a voice.
Kua’s voice.

“Byrna, have you found him?”

“I think—yes. Kern! Kern!”

Without words, he answered them.

“Yes, Kua. Yes, Byrna. I’m here.”

There was resentment in Kua’s voice—the voice of her mind, for no words
were spoken in this curious seance. Kern found time to wonder briefly if
Byrna had always possessed this strange ability to bridge distances, or
if it had burgeoned in her here as something struggled in himself for
new being.

“We’ve been trying a long time, Kern,” Kua said coldly. “You were hard
to reach.”

“I—I wasn’t sure you’d be here any longer.”

“You thought we’d have gone on to other worlds. Well, we would have, if
we could. But Bruce was hurt. In the storm.”

“Badly?”

She hesitated. “We—can’t be sure. Look.”

Through Byrna’s eyes Kern saw Bruce Hallam’s motionless figure, lying
silent on a bed of boughs. He looked oddly pale, almost ivory in color.
His breathing was nearly imperceptible. And Byrna’s mind, groping
through the void for his, found only a strange, dim spinning—something
too far away and too abstract for the normal mind to grasp. She touched
it briefly—and it spun out of contact and was gone.

“A trance?” Kua said. “We don’t know, yet. But we’ve used Byrna’s vision
and learned a little about this world. How much do you know, Kern?”

Kern told them then, with Byrna’s tongue, too absorbed in the needs of
the moment to realize fully what a strange meeting this was of more than
human minds, over unguessed distances of alien land. He told them what
he knew, what he had guessed from overheard conversations—not much, but
a general picture.

“The planet’s mostly ocean. A small continent, about the size of
Australia, I think. City-states all over it. Elje’s band are outlaws.
They have a hideout somewhere, and they raid the towns. They seem—well,
scornful of the townspeople, and a little afraid, too. I can’t quite
understand that.”

“This—Gerd? He spoke of a Mountain?” Kua said.

“Yes. Something about—when the Mountain walks.”

“You know the Mountain,” Kua said. “The storm came from there. Those
vortices of light and energy rose out of it.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Kern remembered the spindles of blinding brilliance that strode across
the land in the maelstrom of the winds. “We don’t understand much of it
yet,” Kua was saying in a troubled tone. “We know there’s danger
connected with that Mountain. I think there is life there, something we
don’t know about. Something that probably couldn’t have developed on
Earth. The conditions could have been too alien. But here anything is
possible.”

Kern felt the thought forming in his brain—in Byrna’s brain.

“Life? Intelligent life? What do you know about it?”

“Maybe not life as we understand the word. Call it a—force. No, it’s
more tangible than that. I don’t know—” The thought-voice of Kua
faltered. “Dangerous. We may learn more of it, if we live. This much
we’ve seen, though, through Byrna’s vision, and mine. We’ve sensed
forces reaching out from the Mountain, into the minds of men. The minds
of the winged townspeople. Assembling them for war.” She hesitated.
“Kern, do you know they’re on their way now, to your town, where the
outlaws are?”

He was instantly alert.

“Now? From where? How soon can they get here?”

“I’m not sure. They aren’t in my sight yet—over the horizon, that is.
Byrna, tell him.”

The mind that held Kern’s stirred, and through it he saw as through a
haze rank upon rank of winged beings flying with steady beasts of their
pinions over a dark night-time terrain. Byrna’s thought murmured,

“You see, I can’t tell how far. It’s new, this clairvoyance since we
came from Earth. I could always see but not so clearly, and I never
could show others what was in my mind. So I only know these men are
flying against your village.”

“And the force of men—the Mountain, I think, has armed them somehow,”
Kua put in. “Byrna has seen the weapons they carry. You’d better warn
your friends—your jailers or whatever they are. Otherwise you may be
caught in the middle of a fight.”

“I will.” Kern’s mind was full now of something new. “You say you’ve
developed this clairvoyance since the time when you came here, Byrna.
Has it happened to the others, too?”

“To me, maybe, a little,” Kua said slowly. “A sharpening of focus, not
much more than that. To Sam—” Her thought form glanced sidewise to Sam
Brewster, sitting silent, with the hood of his secondary lids drawn over
his terrible eyes, “—I think nothing’s happened. He can’t join our talk
now, you see. Byrna’s mind can’t reach into his at all. We’ll have to
tell him all that’s been said, later. And Bruce.” She shrugged. “Perhaps
the winged people will tell you how we can help him. The edge of one of
the vortices caught him, and he’s been like this ever since. We’d hoped
to go on, you know, Kern, to find our own worlds as you—perhaps—have
found yours. But without Bruce, we’re helpless.”

Kern was aware of a tightening and strengthening of his own mind as a
problem at last came before him that must be met. Until now he had been
almost in a trance of wonder and delight and dismay at the new things of
this new, winged world. But the time for lassitude was over. He gathered
his thoughts for speech, but Kua’s voice cut his beginning phrases
short.

“Kern, there’s danger in the Mountain. The—thing—whatever it is, knows
we’re here. It lives in the Mountain, or perhaps it _is_ the Mountain.
But Byrna has sensed hatred from it. Malevolence.”

There was a sudden harshness to her thought.

“Kern, you’re a soft fool!” Kua said. “Did you think you could reach
Paradise without earning it? Whether you help us or not, you’ve got to
face danger before you’ll find your place in this world, or any other. I
don’t think you can manage without us. And we need your help, too.
Together, we may still lose the battle. Separately, there’s no hope for
any of us. We _know_! The Mountain may be a mutation as far beyond us as
we are beyond the animals. But we’ve got to fight.”

Her voice blurred suddenly, faded to a thin drone. The starlit hill and
the faces before him swirled and melted in Kern’s sleeping sight. He
struggled for a moment against intangible danger—something formless and
full of strong malevolence. He saw—what was it? A vast, coiling
Something like a ribbon of fire, moving lazily in darkness and aware of
him—terribly aware.

Far off in the void he felt the quiver of fright in a mind he
knew—Byrna’s mind. But he lost the contact instantly, and then someone
was shaking him by the shoulder and saying something in insistent,
guttural tones.

He opened his eyes.




                              CHAPTER IV

                            _Evil Mountain_


In his vision, the coiling flame had left so brilliant an image upon his
eyelids that for an instant he could see nothing but the blue-green scar
of after-sight swimming upon his vision. Then that faded and he was
staring up into Gerd’s darkly handsome young face.

Kern struggled to sit up, beating his wings a little to help him rise.
The gust stirred Kern’s red hair and sent motes dancing in the beam of
sunlight falling across the bed. Kern in the aftermath of amazement and
terror forgot to dissemble his knowledge of the winged men’s tongue. The
simple syllables raced off his lips.

“Gerd, Gerd, you’ve got to listen to me! I’ve been finding out things I
didn’t suspect until now. Let me up. The townspeople are coming!”

Gerd put a hard palm against his chest.

“Not so fast. You seem to have learned our language in your sleep. No,
stay there.” His voice rose. “Elje!”

She was a moment or two in coming, and Gerd stood back with his hand on
his dagger and his pale, suspicious eyes unswerving as he watched Kern.
When Elje came, bright-faced in the morning sun, her ashen braids wound
in a coronet that glistened against the high arch of her wings, he spoke
without taking his eyes from Kern.

“Our guest awoke this morning with a strangely fluent knowledge of
speech. I told you before of the danger from spies, Elje.”

“All right, I do know more of your language than I pretended,” Kern
admitted. “I just learned it faster than you believed, that’s all. That
doesn’t matter now. Do you know the townspeople are coming to attack?”

Gerd bent forward swiftly, half-open wings hovering above him in the
sunlight.

“How do you know that? You _are_ a spy!”

“Let him talk, Gerd,” Elje said. “Let him talk.”

Kern talked....

In the end, he could see that they did not yet fully trust him. It was
not surprising, for the tale would have bewildered anyone. But the
prospect of an advancing army was enough to divide their thoughts.

“If I were a spy, would I warn you they were coming?” Kern demanded,
seeing their dubious glances fixed on him at the end of his story.

“It isn’t the army you’d be spying for,” Gerd said reluctantly.

“Your other world—Earth,” Elje murmured, her eyes searching Kern’s. “If
that were true, it could explain some things. But we know of no other
worlds.”

Briefly Kern thought that it might be easier for one of Elje’s culture
to believe in the existence of other worlds than for a denizen of some
more sophisticated civilization. The people of this winged race had not
yet closed their minds to all they could not see. It was not a race so
sure of its own omnipotence that it denied all unfamiliar things
existence.

“How could I hurt you now?” Kern said. “Why should I warn you, if I were
on their side?”

“It’s the Mountain,” Elje said surprisingly. “Why do you suppose we kept
you here in this bare room, without furnishings, without anything you
could build into a weapon? Or do you know?”

Bewildered, he shook his head.

“We were not sure if you were a slave to the Mountain. If you were, a
coil of wire, a bit of iron—anything—would have been dangerous to us
in your hands.” Her eyes were questioning.

Again Kern shook his head. Gerd began to speak, his voice faintly
derisive.

“A long story and an evil one. Perhaps you know it. At any rate, we’re
the only free people in this world. Oh, there may be a few others, but
not many, and they don’t live long. The Mountain is jealous of its
slaves. Aside from our group, all the rest of mankind belongs to the
Mountain. All!”

“This Mountain?” Kern said. “What is it?”

Gerd shrugged his red wings.

“Who knows? Demon—god. If we ever had a history, no one knows it now.
No legend goes back beyond the coming of the Mountain. We only know that
it has always been there, and from it, whispers float out to men in
their sleep, and they become slaves to the whisper. Something happens in
their minds. For the most part they live as they choose, in their
cities. But sometimes that voice comes again, and then they’re mindless,
doing as the Mountain bids them.”

“We don’t know what the Mountain is,” Elje said. “But we know that it’s
intelligent. It can guide men’s hands to make weapons, when there’s a
need for weapons. And it can send out storms, such as the one in which
we found you. Not for a long, long while has there been a storm out of
the Mountain. If you’re not a spy, how do you explain the fact that your
coming and the storm happened in the same hour?”

                 *        *        *        *        *

He shrugged. About that, he also was puzzled.

“I wish I knew. But I’ll find out, if any human can. Do you mean the
army that’s coming against you is sent by the Mountain? Why?”

“As long as we remain free, the Mountain will try to enslave us,” Elje
said. “And we’ll fight the townsmen for the things we need, since we
don’t dare fight the Mountain. We’ve stayed too long in this
village—yes, Gerd, I know! We’ll return to the eyrie now. If an army of
the townsfolk is coming, they’ll have weapons the Mountain made them
build, and the weapons will be dangerous, whatever they may be this
time.”

“The prisoner may know all this already,” Gerd said dourly. “That
doesn’t matter. But it will matter if we take him to the eyrie. He could
lead our enemies there, Elje.”

“Through the poison winds?” But Elje drew in her lower lip thoughtfully.
“He tells a mad story, Gerd. I know that. Could it be true?”

“Well, what then?”

“These companions he spoke of. They sound like gods. And they talked of
fighting against the Mountain.”

“Fight against the stars,” Gerd said and laughed. “But not the Mountain.
Not even gods could win such a war.”

“They aren’t gods,” Kern said. “But they have powers none of us know. I
think our coming marks a turning place in the history of your race,
Elje—Gerd. You can kill us or abandon us and go on as you always have,
or you can believe me and help us, and fight this time with a chance of
winning. Will you do it?”

Elje was silent for a moment. Then she laughed and stood up suddenly
with a flutter of her wings.

“I’ll go along with you and talk to your friends,” she said. “If they’re
as you say—yes, Kern, I’ll believe you. For the Mountain never has
changed human flesh. It can touch our minds, but not our bodies. I think
in the beginning were men whose brains had some weakness that let the
whisper come in, and those men were armed by the Mountain and killed
their fellows, until only we outlaws remained.

“Our minds over the generations have been bred to resist invasion as the
townspeople were bred to welcome it. I think—I know—if the Mountain
could reach into our bodies and make that tiny change that would open
our mind to it, then it would win. But it can’t. It can’t alter our
bodies except by killing us. If I see with my own eyes these companions
of Kern’s, I’ll know there is a power greater than the Mountain. And
we’ll fight together, Kern!”

A little later, floating high above the nest of hills which cradled the
village, Kern rocked on spread wings and pressed his eyes tightly shut,
thinking with all the strength of his mind:

“Byrna, Byrna! Answer me, Byrna! Help me find you. Byrna, do you hear?”

Silence, except for the small noises drifting up from far below, distant
shouts as Elje’s winged band collected in haste the loot they would take
with them to their eyrie. Kern’s vision swam with the flecked clouds of
sunlight on closed lids. Deliberately he blanked his mind to receive an
answer. None came.

“Byrna! There may not be time to waste. Byrna, Kua, answer me!”

In his eagerness and impatience he remembered again what he had glimpsed
dimly through Byrna’s memory, the ranks of armed fliers moving through
the night on steadily beating wings toward the village. Perhaps from so
far away they would not arrive for many hours—perhaps so near that the
cloud on the horizon now was not mist, but armed men....

“Byrna! Do you hear me?”

“_Kern!_” The answer he sought came with sharp impact, like a blow in
the face. As if she were almost at his side and speaking with dreadful
violence. He caught terror in the contact of minds, cold, controlled
terror that chilled him so the sunny air turned suddenly icy around him.
He knew instantly that she had heard him before, had been hedging for
just the right contact so that there need be no wasted moments of
groping and finding focus upon one another. He caught the hard impact
and the terror and the urgency in the moment their minds met. Then her
thoughts tumbled into his mind:

“Kern! Hurry! No time to waste. Do you see the grove of blooming trees
left on the horizon? Come! Make new contact there.”

She blanked as suddenly as she had entered his mind. And because
thoughts are so infinitely more rapid than words she had conveyed those
four ideas—identification, haste, locality and a promise of future
contact—in almost no lapse of time at all. But in that brief instant
while their minds did meet, something happened.

Kern rocked on shaken wings as if a blow had jolted him. He snatched his
mind back from the brief touch with Byrna’s quickly, quickly, scorched
with the incandescent hatred that had blazed in the void between them.
For the coiled ribbon of fire which had swum so strangely through
nothingness when he woke from his clairvoyant dream was awake and alive
now, and terribly avid.

                 *        *        *        *        *

It had been waiting, he knew in the instant while his mind leaped back
in recoil from that burning contact. It had found them as he waked
slowly from the long, leisured conversation in the seance.

Since that moment it had lain, coiled, in waiting. _It?_

Folding his wings, he dropped forward in a long, breathtaking dive, the
air screaming past his ears. From a tiled rooftop far below, he saw two
figures rise, one on pale wings, one on glossy red. He spread his own
pinions then, exulting in the strain on his chest-muscles when the broad
surfaces checked his dive, bore him up in a steep arc that made the air
feel warm and solid as he carved a long curve through it.

“That way,” he told Elje, pointing, when she rose within hearing. “We’ll
have to hurry. There’s something wrong. I think perhaps the Mountain, or
Something in the Mountain, knows we’re here.”

Elje’s clear bright color blanched in the sunlight. Behind her, Gerd’s
eyes flashed sideward in the dark face, suspicious, mistrusting still.

“Why do you say that?”

Kern told them as they flew, the grove of blossoming trees on the
horizon seeming to slip rapidly down the edge of the skyline and draw
nearer far below. It was not easy to talk and fly. Kern’s breath began
to come fast, and his chest and wings ached with the speed, after so
many days of inactivity. When he finished speaking there was silence.

“The eyrie lies that way,” Elje said presently, in a controlled voice.
She pointed right with a smooth bare arm. “I’ve sent most of the men on
with our loot. Gerd chose twenty to follow us. You don’t know where or
how far the Mountain’s men are?”

Kern shook his head. “Maybe I can find out at the next meeting with
Byrna.”

He glanced behind them and saw the little band of Elje’s bodyguard
flying a few minutes in their rear, big men all of them, with stolid,
hard-eyed faces. Several carried light wicker squares looped up with
straps.

“Seats for your friends, Kern,” Elje explained. “We need them when we
carry our young people or our old ones, who no longer have the power to
fly.” Her face darkened, as Kern knew their faces always did when the
winged people thought of the days in which they would no longer travel
the lanes of air.

It occurred to him then that their battles might be ferocious things,
fought by men as fanatic in their own way as those who fought on Earth
for entry into an imagined paradise. For these men fought their own old
age as surely as they fought an enemy. No one who has once spread wings
upon the air-currents willingly faces a life without wings.

The blooming grove was beneath them now.

“If you make contact this time with—it—again, Kern, I think _it_ will
know more easily where to direct its men,” Elje said. “There is great
danger. Will you let this meeting with your friends go for awhile? You
may be doing them harm as well as us. The army of the Mountain may be
very near now.”

Kern hesitated. He had been dreading with every wingbeat the moment when
he must open his mind again to that coiled and scorching malevolence.
For an instant he toyed with the idea of postponing searching for
Byrna’s mind, but he knew it would only mean putting off the inevitable.
Grimly he shook his head.

“Byrna!” he called out mentally. “Byrna, what next?”

As before, for long moments there was no answer. Then briefly, like a
gasp, he caught the touch of Byrna’s mind—only briefly and very
incoherently, because between them in the instant of contact flashed the
blinding hatred of the—the interloper. Only when their minds touched,
apparently, could the white-hot malevolence reach them, but it lay
ambushed and ready, and this time it seemed to flare out between them
almost before Byrna’s voice could speak.

Reeling back, shaken and stunned by the thing between them, Kern caught
only a ragged thought or two from Byrna’s mind.

“Three hills—hurry—army!”

That was all that got through. For an instant the void flamed with the
blankness of sheer hatred. Then Kern opened his eyes and caught himself
on reeling wings. Elje and Gerd watched him without speaking as he
controlled his shaken faculties with a great effort. Elje was white with
terror, but on Gerd’s face suspicion was still predominant.

Three hills in a shadowy row cut the horizon line. Kern gestured toward
them and in silence the little group flew on. If Byrna’s gasp of
“—army—” meant the enemy were nearly upon them, there was nothing to
do except fly as they had been flying, in the hope of reaching the
mutants before disaster overtook them all.




                               CHAPTER V

                               _Pursuit_


The three hills were not quite below them, and Kern was watching the
skyline anxiously for signs of the winged army which was moving against
them, when something from below flashed across his eyes. He blinked and
looked down. From a clump of trees the light-beam flashed again,
dazzlingly, from a tiny point of brilliance. Then a small figure stepped
out from the shelter of the branches, waving at him.

It was Kua. Even from this height he could see the reflected light in
twin points on the sun-glasses she held in one hand. She had signalled
him by the heliograph with the only thing they had for reflecting light.

Pointing downward, he let one wing tilt high and came about in a long
glide, lying at full length upon the air with his heels higher than his
head. The ground swung, like water in a cup and Kua seemed to rush
upward to meet him as the swift dive cut the space between them.

The others were with her by the time Kern had put his feet to the grass.
He was conscious, as always, of a little shock of memory renewed when he
met again Kua’s great single gaze from the center of her forehead.
Byrna, hurrying to meet him, lifted a pale, drawn little face.

“Kern!” she cried in a voice that was pure music. And he thought there
was in her eyes, and in Kua’s, a subtle something that was new to him.
Mutation had gone on, perhaps, with them as with him, a step beyond
Earthly mutation. Their powers were strengthened, so that, in part, they
both were strangers to him.

Sam Brewster came out smiling and extending his hand, and Kern took it
with the little inward quailing he had always felt before Sam, the
instinctive averting of his gaze from Sam’s veiled eyes. Beyond Sam’s
shoulder he saw Bruce Hallam lying motionless, as if he had not stirred
since they laid him on the pallet of boughs. His face was ivory-hard and
as withdrawn from living as the face of a statue that had never known
life.

Everything was confused for a few moments. Byrna was crying, “Hurry,
hurry!” and Kua’s distance-piercing glance kept sweeping the horizon as
the winged people swooped to the ground behind Kern and came forward
swiftly, wings half open to speed their hurrying feet.

Kern heard Elje’s little gasp of incredulity and dismay when Kua’s blue
central eye turned upon the newcomers, but the winged girl was too good
a commander to waste time after that first glance which confirmed what
Kern had told her.

In a matter of seconds they were in the air.

Bruce Hallam, still motionless in his mysterious slumber, had been swung
on a wicker carrier between two burly fliers. The other three mutants,
in their seats between winged bearers, scarcely had time for amazement
or uncertainty as they were wafted aloft.

Kern, flying with the rest over the rolling hilltops with the vast glass
cloud of the Mountain shadowing the horizon, timed his flight to the
pace of the slowest so that he might talk in midair with the wingless
people in the carriers. And close beside him Elje and Gerd hovered,
watching almost jealously every expression on the faces of the speakers.

“What do they say, Kern?” Elje asked breathlessly, timing her words to
the rhythm of her wings. “Are—are you sure these people are human? I
never saw such—such—creatures. Gerd, after all could they be gods?”

Gerd laughed shortly, but there was uneasiness in his voice.

“Let them talk. Is the enemy near yet? Ask them, Kern.”

“Near, I think,” Byrna said. She was clutching the straps of her swaying
chair with both tiny hands and her incredibly musical voice might have
been crooning a song instead of shaping the syllables of terror which
echoed the look in her eyes. “Kern, I don’t dare—look—for them any
more! You saw what happened! Kern, tell me what it was _you_ saw.”

“I? Fire, I think. A coiling ribbon of it—and hate. I could almost see
the hate!”

“The Mountain,” Byrna said, her eyes turning automatically toward the
great cloud hanging ominously in the sky. “What do you know about it,
Kern? Have these people told you?”

Briefly he gave her the story Elje had recounted.

“It has never yet been able to change people physically, or there
wouldn’t be any outlaws left,” he finished. “At least, so Elje thinks.
Byrna, I wonder if it could change us? We’re malleable—abnormally
malleable. I—”

He hesitated. Not even to Byrna did he yet want to speak of the deep,
mysterious stirrings he had felt in his own flesh.

“You think you and Kua may have felt something like a changing in
yourselves?”

Byrna nodded, her eyes wide and distressed. “We can’t tell how much,
yet. Maybe the Mountain is the cause of it.”

Unexpectedly Sam Brewster, swinging between his carriers above Byrna,
leaned forward.

“The Mountain’s where the answer is, Kern. I don’t think we’ll be safe
until we’ve explored it.”

“Safe!” Kern said grimly. “If you’d seen what I have, you’d never talk
that way.”

“It won’t matter,” Kua called from a little way ahead, twisting in her
seat to send a piercing blue gaze back at them. “Look! They’re coming!”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Kern’s sharp exclamation as he banked swiftly and turned to follow her
pointing finger was explanation enough to Elje and Gerd what was
happening. A shiver of excitement ran through the whole flying group, a
tightening of muscle and mind. For an instant their pace slackened,
simultaneously, without signal, almost as a flight of birds wheels
simultaneously at no perceptible message.

There was nothing visible on the horizon where Kua pointed.

“I can see the first of them—a long line,” she said. “They’re carrying
something, but I’m not sure what it is. Round things—nets of something
shining, like thin wire. Light’s flashing from it when the sun hits
them.”

Rapidly Kern told Elje.

“New weapons,” she said. “I expected that. I wonder—well, we’ll know
soon enough.” She beat her wings together and soared suddenly above the
group, looking down with speculative eyes.

“We’re going too slowly. Kern.” She flashed a glance at him. “This other
friend of yours, the injured one. He’s heavy. He slows us. And he takes
two men out of the fight if we’re caught. I think—” She made an
expressive downward gesture.

“No!” Kern said quickly. “He’s the most powerful of us all, if we can
rouse him.”

“Well, he must be first to fall, if the need comes,” Elje said. “But
we’ll wait.” She called commands to the group flying before them, and
eight men wheeled in the air and swung back. Kern watched them slip
smoothly, without a break in their wing-beats, into the harness of the
wicker carriers, relieving those who had borne the burden this far.

“Now, quickly!” Elje said. “The eyrie!”

They were almost over the jagged hills where the outlaws’ refuge lay,
when the first ranks of the enemy swept over the skyline and saw them.
The fugitives had flown low, taking advantage of every line of hills and
trees for cover, and despite their burden they flew fast, their pace
nearly matching that of the pursuers because of the all-night flight the
enemy had made.

But they had not yet reached shelter when the sound of a horn, clear and
high, fell through the sunny air, and after it, drowning out the thin,
sweet notes, the roar of angry men sighting their prey.

Elje was very calm.

“Gerd,” she said. “You’ll lead the way in?”

“No!” he growled. “Let one of the captains go. I feel like a fight.”

“Stay, then,” Elje answered.

She called a command to a man in the front rank of her little party.
They were flying as fast as wing could carry them toward a gap between
two jagged, dark hills through which Kern could see a wilderness of
tortured rock beyond. It looked volcanic in origin, and waves of
intermittent heat and strange metallic odors drifted to them on the wind
as they approached.

“There are poisonous currents in these hills,” Elje told Kern as they
swept forward. “Many of us died before we learned the way through them.
Now we have a shelter where no one can follow us who hasn’t a guide.”

Abruptly she ceased to speak. Kern turned a startled glance and saw her
reel in midair, throwing back her head so that the clear line of her
throat was white and taut against the blue sky. Then, without a word,
suddenly she crumpled in full flight. An instant longer her wings
sustained her and she hung limp from the spread pinions. Then they too
folded back and she dropped like a stone.

Time stopped for Kern. Everything stood still, the hills with their
floating vapors, the flying troupe, the breeze halted among the trees
below. He could see the first ranks of the oncoming enemy halted too and
hanging motionless in space, their shouts nothing but a buzz in his
ears.

He saw too, very clearly, the great ovals of the weapons they carried,
and the light that whirled in intricate, thin patterns like wires of
brilliance within the ovals. He saw the cone of light reach out from the
nearest oval and touch another of the fugitive fliers.

It had happened in an instant, and it was over. Kern dived for Elje’s
falling body almost before she had ceased to speak, swung under her,
caught her across his arms in a welter of slack wings and loosened hair.

Gerd’s harsh voice was shouting orders above him. By the time Kern had
labored up to their level with his burden he saw the newly-appointed
guide of the winged men vanishing into the cleft between the hills,
leading two by two the harnessed pairs who carried the mutants.

The roar of savage voices behind them filled the shaken air, and the
roar of countless wings beating in ranks as the enemy swooped upon them.
They were very near now—so near Kern could see the distorted, shouting
faces and the flash of knives in the hands of the foremost.

It was a strange and eerie thing to realize that no human hatred burned
behind the angry faces, but the fiery, venomed malignancy which was the
Mountain. Or did this oncoming rabble know why it fought? Did they think
this fury their own emotion, not a monstrously inspired rage that turned
them to automatons?

A cone of light swung past Kern, numbing his wing-tip, and touched a
fast-flying man in front of him between the wings. The man jolted
convulsively, arched backward and then crumpled to hang for an instant
motionless on the momentum of his own flight. The wings folded as Elje’s
had done, and the man dropped downward out of sight.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Gerd was gesturing Kern frantically on. The hunchback hovered on red
pinions recklessly in full view of the enemy, knives flashing in each
hand, ready to engage whoever came within reach of his blades. He was
shouting hoarse orders scarcely audible above the rushing thunder of the
enemies’ wings and their voices bellowing for blood.

The last of the little band was pouring through the hill-cleft now, Kern
almost the last of all with his limp burden hanging across his arms. The
air was full of twisting vapors and he could not see very clearly as he
swept closer to the hills. It was, curiously, a nightmare sensation,
half-blindness from the poison vapors and half-deafness from the roar of
wings and voices. He could only follow the back of the man ahead, dimly
seen through the mists. Elje hung motionless in his arms, her trailing
wings fluttering a little to the measured beat of his own.

The last thing he saw as he glanced back was Gerd poised above the cleft
to follow him in, ready to fight a rear-guard action if need be. And
then, all in one brief glance between drifts of vapor, Kern’s heart
contracted as he saw two more winged shapes beating desperately toward
him through the dimness, two men flying tandem with a harnessed burden
between them.

It was Bruce Hallam’s bearers. And Elje had been right. Bruce’s weight
was too great for the flying men to carry fast enough. Evidently they
had been left too far behind to follow the other bearers in and had only
now made up the distance which would save them.

Or would it save them?

In spite of himself, Kern tilted his wings and hesitated in the air,
twisting his head to watch. He saw Gerd gesturing savagely to hurry them
in—heard the hunchback’s deep howl.

“Drop him!” Gerd howled. “Drop him and come on!”

But before they could obey, a cone of white fire swept silently through
the coiling fog and enveloped bearers and burden alike in a bath of
radiance.

There was no sound, except for the all-encompassing uproar of the
pursuit. In silence the doomed fliers stiffened and glided an instant
still carrying their fatal weight between them—and then dropped.

The three of them vanished together into the engulfing mists.

Kern flew on with Elje.

He labored on leaden wings through the fog. Whiffs of burning vapor
stung in his nostrils and set his pumping lungs on fire. Elje was an
almost unbearable weight in his arms.

Coughing, choking, ready to think every wing-beat his last, he stumbled
through the air in the wake of the man before him, his only guide
through this aerial labyrinth of poison. Hot updrafts caught him and
tossed him aloft, cross-currents fetid with strangling vapors sent him
into perilous side-slips toward the jagged black peaks dangerously near.
At this speed he knew he could not survive the slightest contact with
those knife-edged rocks.

And Bruce’s loss was a heavier burden to bear than even Elje’s dead
weight. For only Bruce could have opened the doors for the rest to
escape into worlds of their own. And upon Bruce’s uncanny skill he had
pinned his highest hopes of freeing this world from its enemy.

Strangling, choking, muscles aching from the strain of long flight, he
reeled on in the wake of the flying outlaws.

The end of the ordeal came without warning. One moment he was flying
blindly through the updrafts and the smoke, the next he found himself
floating in clear still air over what seemed a great lip of rock. Winged
men below gestured him down and he dropped slowly on aching wings and
let his feet touch the rock gingerly.

Elje coughed in his arms as he shifted weight from wings to feet.
Electrified, he looked down, forgetting everything else in this new
surprise. He had been certain she was dead or dying. She opened her
eyes, looked at him blindly, and let the lashes flutter down again. But
at least she was still alive.

The men of her band closed around them then and one of them took Elje
from his arms. Kern looked around curiously as he followed Elje’s bearer
across the rock.

A cavern lifted its high arched entrance before them, black rock without
and within, and the lip of rock thrust out before it, black too. Above
the platform, which must have been two hundred feet across, the air was
still and no poisonous vapors swirled, but they still rose all around
the edges of the rock and leaned together high above like a tent roof
that blotted out the sky except for occasional rifts far overhead. It
was like a painter’s concept of Hades, even to the winged men with the
hard, violent faces swarming out to meet the newcomers.

The mutants were among them. Kern told them shortly of Bruce’s loss. He
did not want to dwell on it, for it seemed a death-blow to the hopes of
the others and perhaps to his own, too, if this world was ever to be
peopled by any but automatons.

None of the mutants spoke after he had told them. The loss was a
stunning one and Byrna’s sad, small face grew sadder and very pale,
while Kua’s great blue eye filled with tears as she turned away. Sam
Brewster muttered something under his breath and for an instant Kern saw
the veiling secondary lids twitch across his eyes, as they always
twitched when Sam was angry, in involuntary preparation to draw back.

“Sam!” Kern said sharply. Sam grimaced and turned away too, closing the
secondary lids again.

Inside the cavern, on a straw mattress under a stretched crimson tent,
Elje was lying. A fire burned in a crude hood of rocks, its heat cupped
in the red tent and reflected back again upon the bed. Someone was
holding a bowl of steaming liquid to her lips as Kern came up.

Kern watched her drain it slowly. When she lay back upon the cushions
her eyes remained open and she looked around the circle of watching men
with understanding dawning in her face. Color came back into it after
awhile, and then she coughed again and sat up.

“All right,” she said. “I’m better. What happened?”

Kern told her.

“Gerd?” she asked when he had finished. The men looked at one another
inquiringly. A growl of dissent went through the cavern. No one had seen
him. Someone rose on heavy wings and flapped out under the dome to
search the platform outside. Gerd was not to be found. Elje’s face
darkened.

“We could afford to lose twenty men better than Gerd,” she said. “You
say he was last behind you, Kern? Didn’t you hear any fighting as you
came in?”

Kern shook his head. “I couldn’t tell. I thought he was following me.
The last I saw was Bruce and his carriers going down.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Elje bit her lip. “I’m sorry. We’ll miss him. He was one of the bravest
and most loyal of us all. He’s been with us only a year, but I’d come to
depend more on his judgment than—” She broke off. “Well, it can’t be
helped. I suppose the light-cones got him. I wonder how they work.” She
flexed her wings and tried her muscles out experimentally. “The rays
don’t seem to leave any after-effects. I suppose the fatalities are
meant to come from the fall. Well, at least we’re lucky to have got away
without any worse losses.”

She got to her feet and shook her head tentatively, shook her wings out
and made two or three uncertain beats that nearly lifted her off the
floor.

“I’m all right now.” She spread her hands to the blaze for it was damply
chill in the cavern. “The Mountain’s angry,” she said. “It isn’t only
our raid on the village that brought this army out against us. There was
that storm, too. Kern, I think the Mountain knows you’re here and is
trying to—to finish you. Have you any idea why?”

Kern had, vague theories too inchoate to put into words. He shook his
head instead. Elje laughed shortly.

“Gerd wouldn’t trust you. If he were here, he’d say it was your fault
the enemy had gathered against us. He’d say to put you out and let you
shift for yourselves, all of you. Is there any reason why I shouldn’t?”
Her voice was suddenly hard.

Disconcerted, Kern stared at her. “If you don’t know any—” he began,
but she broke in quickly.

“You saved my life,” she conceded, “but we’re not a sentimental people.
We can’t afford to be. If your presence here is a menace to the safety
of us all, I can’t indulge my own gratitude by putting my men in danger.
We must each contribute to the strength of the group, or perish.” She
shrugged. “You’re one extra fighting man, but what about your friends?
Have they abilities to counterbalance their being earth-bound?”

“I think they have. This much is sure, Elje. Unless we can prevail
against the Mountain somehow, I believe we mutants at least are doomed.
Our coming has upset the balance in your world and the Mountain knows it
and intends to be rid of us. Well, we’ve lost our best man, Bruce
Hallam. With his help we might have moved openly against the Mountain.
Without him, we are greatly handicapped.” Kern grimaced wryly.
“Remember, Byrna and I have been in—call it in tune—with whatever it
is that constitutes the Mountain. We know what we’re facing. But I don’t
see any choice. It’s kill or be killed.”

Behind him Kua’s gentle voice spoke. “Kern,” she said. He turned. Elje
turned too, and from the corner of his eye, he saw her recoil
involuntarily from the strangeness of Kua’s face.

Kua’s wide blue eye, with depth upon depth shining in it, was staring at
the rock wall above the fireplace. Her face had a look of concentration
and withdrawal upon it, as if in all but body she were miles away.

“Kern!” she said again. “There are men coming. Many men. I think they
are the same ones who were following us outside.” She hesitated,
glancing quickly at Elje’s face, her eye refocusing swiftly and then
going back to the solid wall.

“Kua, you can see them?” Kern demanded. “Do you mean it? Do you know
you’re not looking through empty spaces now, Kua? You’re looking through
rock!”

The shock of realization on Kua’s face as she turned to him was answer
enough. “I am!” she gasped. “It never—that hasn’t happened before.
Kern, it’s true that we’re changing. More than we know, until something
like this happens! But I can see them. I can see through the side of the
mountain.”

Again she turned to stare with her fathomless gaze into distances no
human eye ever pierced before, unaided.

“They’re coming,” she said. “Through the mists, the way we came.”

Swiftly Kern told Elje what she had said. Elje leaned forward abruptly.

“Through the labyrinth?” she cried. “But they can’t! No one can come
that way without a guide. They won’t get far before they’re overcome by
the gasses.”

“They have a guide,” Kua said in a strangely gentle voice, turning her
gaze upon Elje. “Your friend. Gerd.”




                              CHAPTER VI

                              _Betrayal_


Horrified silence filled the cave for a moment when Kern ceased his
translation. Then bedlam broke out. The encircling men who had listened
so far in silence burst into violent speech, some deriding Kua’s claim,
some cursing Gerd. Elje silenced them with a sharp command.

“I don’t believe you,” she said flatly. “Gerd wouldn’t betray us.”

Kua shrugged. “You’d better prepare to meet them,” was all she said.

For a moment Elje’s composure broke. “But I don’t—it can’t be Gerd! He
wouldn’t! Kern, how _can_ we meet them? They’re a hundred to our one!
This was our last refuge. If they’re coming here, all is lost!”

“They don’t know we’re expecting them,” Kern said. “That’s our only
advantage. Make the most of it. Is there any room for ambushes along the
way?”

Elje shook her head. “It’s almost a single-file path everywhere. And
Gerd knows it better than even I do.” Her wings drooped. Listlessly she
stared into the fire. “This is the end of all resistance to the
Mountain,” she said. “This is the day _it_ wins the fight. None of us
can come out alive. Gerd! I can’t believe it!”

“The Mountain—you think?” Kern asked her.

“It must be that. He passed all our tests—and we have rigid ones—but
somehow he must have been able to hide the truth from us. He’s one of
the Mountain’s slaves and, when it commanded, he had to obey.”

“That proves it!” Kern said suddenly. “Why should the Mountain move
against you today of all days, unless it has something to fear? Gerd’s
been with you a year, you say. The Mountain could have struck any hour
of all that time. But it waited—for an emergency. And this is the
emergency. If it’s afraid of us, then maybe we’re stronger than we know.
Maybe—”

From the mists outside the high, hollow notes of a horn broke into his
speech. Kern spun around. Voices rose in angry babble from the platform.
There was a beating of wings that made a noise almost deafening under
the dome of the cavern, and the fire flared wildly, the red canvas of
Elje’s tent flapped in the blast as the outlaws rushed to the defense of
their last refuge. Elje, shouting commands, rose with them.

Kua and Byrna turned white faces to Kern. Sam Brewster, behind them,
looked a question. Rapidly Kern told them what had been said.

“You’d better wait here,” he finished. “I don’t know what’s coming, but
you’ll be safer inside.”

Sam smiled a grim and dreadful smile. “I can help,” he reminded Kern.
“I’ll come outside.”

Together they walked to the door of the cave. There was tumult beyond,
but an orderly tumult. Ranks of the winged outlaws were hurrying aloft
to hang overhead in wait. Elje marshaled the rest with a hopeless sort
of efficiency into reserves. Before she had finished, the horn sounded
again, on a note of triumph, and the first of the enemy burst through
the fog upon them.

“You see,” Elje said to Kern, the hopelessness clear in her voice. “They
wanted us out in the open where they could finish us quickest. They even
gave warning so we’d be waiting for them. That’s how sure they are of
us.”

From the front of the platform a wave of the outlaw fighters, knives
flashing in their hands, rose to meet the newcomers. And from above a
second wave dived on half-closed wings. For a few moments there was a
bloody melee at the mouth of the aerial entry where the enemy poured
through.

“We can hold them five minutes,” Elje said. “After that, we’re through.”

Now for the first time Kern saw how the winged men fought. The hawk-dive
was the thing he thought of as he watched the fighters swoop on their
prey, saw the flash of knives held at an expert angle for the slash that
would cripple wing-muscles and send the victim hurtling helplessly to
the ground. One sweeping cut across the chest-muscles was enough to put
a man out of the fight.

But if the intended prey saw his adversary coming, then it was a matter
of soaring and swooping for position. And Kern saw many times a winged
man, outmaneuvered by his enemy, rise on desperate wings and hurl
himself headlong into a death-like embrace, wings folded, so that the
two fell like a single plummet, each striving frantically as they
dropped twisting through the air for a blow that would cripple his
adversary and break the wing-locked grip before the ground came too
near.

Now the gush of the enemy through the fog had become too great to stem
as they poured by the score out of their narrow entry. The fight which
had for a few minutes hovered at the mouth of the gap swept backward and
upward until the great tent of vapor over the platform was filled with
struggling men, and the air was blackened with the shadows of their
wings.

“They aren’t using those light-cones,” Kern said. “I’ve been waiting to
dodge but none have come through yet. Why?”

“I think because the Mountain sends out the light-beam that focuses
through the wires,” Elje told him. “That’s the way their weapons usually
work. And the Mountain can’t penetrate our mists and our rocks here.
They’ve got to fight hand-to hand—but they can do it. There are too
many of them. I—Kern, look! Is that Gerd?”

                 *        *        *        *        *

A flash of red wings and red hair showed through the melee as someone
went by on whistling wings, too fast to see clearly. Kern caught one
glimpse of a dark face and pale, fixed eyes—and thought there was grief
in the eyes and the distorted face in that one glancing look he caught
of it.

Elje, beside him, shouted something across the platform and from its lip
another wave of men rose in the hopeless defense of their stronghold.

“We’ll go up with the last,” Elje said quietly, glancing over her
shoulder at the men who remained. “One more wave and then—the last.
This way we’ll kill the greatest number before it’s over. Have you a
knife, Kern?”

As she spoke a man with a dripping knife soared past them over the edge
of the platform, blood falling from a dozen wounds, face set in blind,
fanatic violence. Squarely before them they saw him falter in midair,
his gaze going past them to something in the shadow of the cave.
Abruptly then he stiffened, his chin jerked up and his wings folded back
as if they had been suddenly broken. He fell in a long slide,
momentum-borne and inert, and crashed at Elje’s very feet.

She had her knife at his throat in a swift, lithe crouch before she saw
that no knife was necessary. Bewildered, she looked up at Kern.

He stooped and took the wet blade from the man’s hand, wiped it on his
leather jerkin.

“Don’t look back, Elje,” he warned her harshly. “Sam? Sam!”

“It’s all right, Kern.” Sam Brewster’s voice had a dreadful sort of
amusement in it. “I’m not—looking.”

Elje stared, speechless, into Kern’s face as the other mutant sauntered
up to join them in the shelter of a heap of rock at the edge of the
platform. Sam’s smile was thin and cold. The secondary lids veiled his
eyes, but a gleam in their depths glittered even through the film and
Kern looked hastily away.

“What—what is it?” Elje faltered. “What killed this man?”

“I did.” Sam was grinning without mirth. “Like this.”

He turned away, face lifted, scanning the turmoil overhead where men
dived and soared on blood-dappled wings, clasped one another in deathly
embraces and hurtled earthward with knives flashing between them. At the
edge of the platform, only a dozen feet overhead, such a pair writhed in
gasping, murderous combat. As they watched, one man freed his knife-hand
and in the same motion drove the blade hilt-deep into the other’s chest!

The killer’s wings spread and stiffened in anticipation of what was to
come, as his victim clutched convulsively at his shoulders in a last
effort to save himself. For an instant one man’s wings supported them
both. Then the dying man’s body went limp. Wings flaccid, he fell away
from the blade and went hurtling downward through the mists, twisting
and turning over while blood pumped from his chest.

The killer paused for a moment in midair, breathing in deep gasps and
looking for another adversary. His glancing eyes crossed Sam Brewster’s.
For an instant he hung there, panting for breath, gaze locked with
Sam’s.

The knife dropped from his loosened fingers. Eyes still wide, he heeled
over in the air stiffly. His wings broke backward and he fell after the
man he had just killed. They vanished almost together into the fog
below.

Sam laughed grimly. When he turned the secondary lids were closed again
over his eyes.

“I can kill anyone who catches my eyes, when they’re open,” he said.

Elje did not understand the words, but his gesture was enough. She
caught her breath softly and looked away in sheer instinctive revulsion
from that deathly gaze.

“Elje, we’ve got to do something,” Kern said. “Now, while we can. We’ve
got Sam. Kua and Byrna have their own powers, too. There’s no use
waiting here to be killed. If only we could get away.”

“Where?” Elje asked somberly. “The Mountain could find us wherever we
went.”

“We could go to the Mountain.” Kern’s voice was more confident than he
felt. “If it’s so anxious to see us dead, then it must be afraid of us.
Anyhow, that’s our only hope. Is there any way out except the way we
came here?”

Elje gestured aloft. “Only up. And you can see how thick the vapors
are.”

Kern glanced around the platform. There were perhaps fifty men remaining
on their feet, waiting to be thrown into the last wave of the defense.
He looked toward the cave-mouth and beckoned. Kua and Byrna hurried
across the platform toward him, their faces pale and anxious.

“Kua,” he said. “A little while ago you found you could look through
walls. Look up. Do you think you could tell which of those vapors up
there are poisonous and which aren’t?”

Kua’s face lifted: her single eye narrowed. For a long moment no one
spoke.

“No, I’m not sure,” she said. “I can see a long way through to the clear
air. I can see that some of the fog flows in definite patterns, much
thicker than the rest. But what’s poison and what isn’t—no one could
tell that by looking, Kern.”

“Is there a path through the places where the fog’s thin?”

“Yes.”

“We’ll have to take a chance on it, then. Maybe if it’s thin enough to
breathe, we can get through.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Rapidly he told Elje what he hoped. “There are men enough left here to
give us a chance if we fight our way. Sam and Kua are worth enough to be
carried. I’ve never fought in the air and I wouldn’t be much help, so
I’ll carry Byrna. It’s worth trying, Elje. Better than waiting here to
be killed.”

“Yes.” Elje’s voice was hopeless. “Better to die that way than this. All
right, Kern, we’ll go.”

[Illustration: “Better to die that way than this,” said Elja. “All
right, Kern, we’ll go.”]

She turned and shouted commands to the last men around her. A few
minutes later the remnant of the rebel band went soaring into the air.

The platform fell away below. It was like plunging into a maelstrom of
shouts and cries, groans, gasps for breath, the deafening beat of many
wings. Blood rained about them, knives flashed and fell, bodies hurtled
past toward the ground. With Byrna’s light weight in his arms, Kern beat
heavily upward. Confidence had suddenly begun to glow in him, against
all reason. They would make it. He was irrationally sure of that.

And they did. But not all of them.

Sam Brewster was the one who fell. Almost at the last, when their
depleted band had reached nearly the dome of the vaporous tent, a flung
knife transfixed one of Sam’s bearers between the wings. He screamed,
arched backward, and fell. Someone beside him dived too late for the
reeling basket-seat in which Sam rode. The mutant pitched forward into
space and dropped without a cry.

It would have been suicide to dive back into that maelstrom of death in
an effort to catch him. Sick at heart, Kern saw him fall twisting toward
the ground. He saw, too, how man after man of the swarm around him
stiffened and dropped after Sam on limp wings as the mutant’s lethal
gaze took his own escort of dead men around him to his death.

Then they plunged into the choking mists overhead, and no one had time
to think of anything but his own breathing, his own urgent need to
follow exactly in the wing-path of Kua’s bearers as she guided them
through the fog.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Like a gigantic thunderhead the Mountain lifted its clear, pale bulk
into the zenith. The mind quailed from the very thought of such height;
it seemed to lean forward over the fliers and hover for a monumental
collapse that would crush the world.

When they drew close, Byrna shuddered in Kern’s arms and turned like a
child to clasp his neck and hide her face on his shoulder.

“I can feel it,” she said in a muffled voice. “It’s watching. It’s
trying to—to get into my mind. Don’t think, Kern. Don’t let it reach
you!”

Kern was briefly aware of a hot, coiling ribbon of hatred that moved
through his brain and was gone as his mind slammed its gates of thought
against the intruder. It was not easy to force his wings to carry them
onward when his whole mind rebelled against drawing any nearer to the
Mountain. He saw revulsion on the faces around him too, and caught
uneasy glances cast sideward at his face. Their pace had perceptibly
slowed.

“I don’t like it either, Elje,” he said to the winged girl across the
swimming void that flowed past far below. “But we’ve got to do it. What
choice have we, except to be killed? They may be following us from the
cave already. Our only hope’s to reach the Mountain where we _may_ do a
little damage before—” He did not finish. There was no need to finish.

Now they were so near the wall of opalescence rising like the end of the
world before them that Kern could see their own reflections floating
distorted high up on the face of the cliff.

“Is it glass?” he asked.

“No one knows.” Elje controlled a shiver. “No one who came close enough
to find out ever returned. It may be just a—a solid mass. I don’t—”
She had glanced across her shoulder to answer him. Now her gaze went
further.

“They’re following,” she said in a dull voice. “If it is solid, we’re
trapped.”

Kern looked back. In a dark mass like a low, level cloud on the horizon,
the winged ranks of the enemy moved in their wake.

Kua suddenly pointed.

“Look ahead,” she said. “Up there on the cliff, to the left—is it a
cave? I—why, it’s opening wider!”

Everyone looked eagerly. There was a moment’s silence. The Mountain too
seemed to wait and listen. But Kern saw no change in the face of the
cliff. Unbroken, unshadowed, opalescent, it lifted before them.

Wind sighed past them toward the cliff, ruffling their wings. The sigh
grew stronger—was a rising sough of sound—a sough that soared to an
ear-stunning shriek. Headlong they whirled toward the Mountain,
helpless, drawn upon that sudden irresistible wind. Kern clutched Byrna
tighter and fought his wrenched wings as the cliff rose up in his face,
like a solid cloud.

Dimly he could make out the shape of the opening at the same moment it
engulfed him. Stunned with surprise, he went tumbling into the cliffside
on that sucking wind, half-blinded by the opalescent mist which filled
the tunnel. It was like spinning through a solid, for the impalpable
stuff they flew through was indistinguishable to the eye from the stuff
of the Mountain itself.

Light dimmed behind them as they were drawn helpless in tumbling flight
deeper and deeper into the heart of the cloud—the Mountain—there was
no term for what it was they sped through.

The wind that bore them along slowed. The deafening noise of it fell and
was a sigh, a whisper—silence. For an instant they hung in opalescent
nothingness, gasping for breath. Then Kua’s voice sounded sweetly in the
hush.

“Look back—look back! I can see the way we came. I can see it closing.
Like water flowing together. No, like running sand.”

Kern ceased to hear her. For suddenly he was aware of an almost
imperceptible thickening in the mist around him. Something not seen, but
felt. A closing and a supporting, so that the weight of his body and
Byrna’s no longer hung wholly upon his wings. A solidifying in the very
air.

He could not move.




                              CHAPTER VII

                               _Combat_


Relentlessly the Mountain which had opened to receive them had closed
again, gently and solidly. The little group of captives hung frozen in
the very postures of flight, spread-winged, hair still blowing in a wind
which no longer moved past them. They were frozen as if in a moment of
eternal Now, as if time had ceased to move and their own motions had
ceased with it.

And then before them in the opalescent cloud of the Mountain a thin coil
of light began to glow.

Swiftly it grew clearer. And Kern looked with the eyes of the body upon
that which he had seen before with the eyes of the mind. He felt the
malevolence beat out at them before the fire itself came wholly into
focus, strong hatred, curiously impersonal. It was the hatred of a
Mountain, a cloud, not a human hatred.

The lazy, coiling ribbon moved through the solid fog, the foggy solid
glass, somewhere ahead of the captives. It was impossible to gauge
distances here, but the thing was close enough to see in every detail.
Its slowly writhing coil that drew in and out of its own folds with a
leisurely, never-ending motion. Its burning color that was hot to the
eye and hot to the perceptive mind with the heat of its consuming
hatred.

Something lay within the coils. It was drawing its ribbon-folds
caressingly about that something. They could not yet see what.

For an instant or two the great, slow, burning thing moved in its long
folds before them, blind and impersonal and hating. But then came a new
change. Then it looked at them.

Spots of luminous darkness began to swim slowly through the coils. They
came and went. Whenever a coil moved itself to face the captives in the
solid glass, eye-spots swam upon that coil, flickering out again as the
fiery curve moved on.

It watched. It waited and hated and was silent.

That which lay within it, bathed in the caressing coils, began to move.
The coils altered their pattern to leave what they supported visible.
And Kern felt a shock of emptiness within him that made the vision blur
for a moment. When he looked again it was unmistakable and clear before
him.

Bruce Hallam, lying quietly on the supporting coils, his eyes open and
regarding them as impersonally as the eyes that came and went upon the
ribbons of fire.

“This—” Bruce Hallam said clearly “—is my world.”

The words came to them as if through empty air, with a cold clarity that
allowed of no mistake. For it was not wholly Bruce Hallam who spoke. It
was a voice of fire too. Hatred and blinding light coiled through the
words as it coiled through the fog before their eyes. Two beings spoke
with the single voice, but two beings who were now one.

Sudden memory flashed through Kern’s mind. He saw the long-ago, far-away
room again, where the little group of mutants had stepped from one
universe to another. He saw Bruce opening his steel door upon a waiting
world, searching it with his eyes, closing the door again. He understood
now. Bruce had known. Somehow, he had known in the single glance which
world held kinship for him and which did not.

Bruce, with his mutant’s uncanny skill at creating out of any means at
hand the more-than-machinery which would do his bidding, had recognized
this world. Kern remembered with shock his own blindness when Elje had
described to him what the Mountain’s slaves, under its guidance, could
do with any material at hand—how, when they still suspected Kern of
complicity with the enemy, they had cleared his room of any matter out
of which he might build a weapon to destroy them.

Yes, this world was Bruce Hallam’s—not Kern’s after all. A winged
world, yes, but a world under dominance. And Bruce’s was the dominant
realm.

All this flashed through his mind with the swiftness of a single
thought, while Bruce’s coldly burning words still sounded in their ears.
He was remembering how impersonal Bruce had always been, how remote from
human feeling, when he heard the cold voice again.

“There is no place in my world for you,” Bruce told them calmly. “There
is room only for the winged people—and Me. You come from malleable
flesh, a malleable heritage. I can not trust you here. My coming into
the world made a cyclone here in the Mountain, drawing out forces better
left untouched. I was helpless then. I could not save—myself—until I
was out of your reach. The time has come to destroy the last remnants of
those who defy me. And you mutants whose flesh I can not control must go
with the rest.”

He did not stir, but the coiling flame moved with sudden quickened
speed, flowing toward them _through_ the imprisoning glass which held
the humans so inflexibly. Bruce, then, was only the voice of this
dreadful duo. The ribbon of flame was the body.

A long loop of it moved lazily forward, falling gently like a silk
ribbon through air. After it the fiery length followed gracefully,
weaving in and out of its own folds, and within the folds, always
caressed by them streaming over and around his body, Bruce Hallam moved
too, rigidly, supported on the coiling loops, not a muscle of his own
limbs stirring.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Kern watched them come. He had no idea what would happen when the
burning coils touched the first human, but he could feel the white heat
of its malevolence flow before it. Helpless, voiceless in the grip of
the unyielding glass, he strained fiercely for—for—he did not know
what. Only to be free to fight even uselessly against the oncoming
enemy.

Sharply the thought in his mind broke in two. He had known this cleavage
before, but the utter strangeness of it stunned him for a moment so that
his thoughts went blank while something, _something_ stirred incredibly
through his body.

The old feeling of change, of unutterable newness, of an unguessed sense
opening within him like nothing man ever knew before.

Three times he had known this feeling since he stepped into the winged
world. Three times he had crushed it down, fearing and hating it for its
threat of making him alien again, alien to the winged people he had
hoped would be his own. But this time he did not fight. This time, in
the violent, straining effort to break free, he broke instead some
barrier which had until now held back the new thing, the _something_
which had burgeoned relentlessly within him ever since he came within
the Mountain’s realm.

The glass walls that held him like a prisoner in ice grew dim and
vanished. His companions pilloried in glass beside him wavered into
darkness. He no longer felt the warmth of Byrna frozen in glass in his
arms. Everything was dark—even the slow—coiling ribbons that looped
leisurely toward him through solid substance.

And then out of that darkness came light. All about him came light. And
it took a long moment for him to discover he was not seeing that light
with eyes. He was seeing it—incredibly, impossibly—with his whole
body. He saw everything around him in one all-encompassing range.

“This is the way the Mountain sees,” he knew with sudden certainty. How
he knew it was not clear; it was a knowledge that came with the new
vision. He and the Mountain, they shared a common faculty.

Motion far away caught his fathomless attention and he was looking out
through the clouded side of the Mountain and seeing, as if he stood
before them, the flight of the oncoming winged men who had followed the
fugitives from the eyrie. They were nearly here now, approaching the
monstrous cliff as blindly as if they meant to dash themselves to death
against it.

With the same all-embracing sight, Kern was aware of the people frozen
around him into the glass, and of the looping coils that flowed toward
them, and of Bruce Hallam, rigid as an image of stone, moving with the
moving ribbons.

But they looked very different now. The people.

He knew their faces, the familiar outlines of their bodies, but he could
see through the bodies with his new vision. And the appalling thing he
saw was not the structure of bone and muscle and nerve which a part of
his mind expected there. These things were only pale shadows upon
the—the _other_.

The people were rings of flat, luminous color, disc upon disc of it,
superimposed, overlapping, no two people with the same patterns or the
same colors. And he knew that the muscular structure humans are aware
of, the skeleton, the nerves, are only a part of what comprises them.
Only a part—and not the part important to the Mountain. The Mountain
ruled by other means.

Every flying man approaching outside the cliff had one thing in common
with his fellows. Each was made up of ring after ring of colors,
brilliant arcs and half-moons lying one upon another and in continual
delicate shifting motion. But in each, and moving slowly over the rings,
a circle of luminous darkness swung. Darkness like the eyes which swam
up to the surface of the coiling ribbons that embraced Bruce Hallam. An
eye—the eye of the Mountain.

That was the thing the Mountain used in them to transmit its commands,
then. The point of contact in each man that made him a slave when the
orders came.

There was no such eye in any of the people imprisoned around Kern. He
saw his own body with this new vision, rings and discs of color like the
rest, and with no dark, circling spot that meant the Mountain owned him.

The Mountain is a creature of glass, he told himself clearly. Its body
is this opalescent stuff which is solid or gas as the Mountain wills. It
can make tunnels and caverns like open mouths through it and close them
again. And its brain, its motivating force, is the ribbon of fire,
endless, revolving upon itself in the center. It has many strange
senses. One of them I share now.

He thought: When we came here, we somehow brought on a cyclone of
violent forces drawn from the Mountain itself. Because Bruce Hallam had
an inhuman kinship with the entity which dwells here. But it was an
entity so strong, so accustomed to mold the minds of its victims and use
them like tools to create other tools, that we ourselves were reshaped
without knowing it.

This strange new sense began very early to take shape in me. Kua reacted
too, and Byrna. Sam? I don’t know. He’s gone. But as for me, I have
changed.

Something stirred mysteriously through his flesh, and without the need
to look down, Kern’s horizon-circling vision told him that light had
begun to glow in him—fire—long, rolling loops of fire that stretched
with incredible flexibility _through_ the solid glass imprisoning him.

                 *        *        *        *        *

The ribbon of fire upon which Bruce’s body rode paused in its motion,
hesitated, almost drew back. Kern felt dimly its surprise and its
strange, inhuman hatred. But only dimly, for his own mind was too
stunned with this final revelation to let any other feeling through.

Too malleable, he thought despairingly—flesh too malleable to hold its
own form under the irresistible altering pull that was the Mountain. And
now through the icy glass which held the humans rigid, two shapes of
coiling flame turned lazily over and over—one shape supporting a human
body and glowing incandescent with malevolence, the other still too
amazed for emotion, but stretching its new limbs of fire with a sort of
reluctant, voluptuous luxury as the endless ribbon rolled in
convolutions of flame in and out of its own length. A strange, inhuman
luxury, this, to stretch upon the firm, permeable glass, moving through
it as light might move, in a dimension of its own.

Hatred like a blast of furnace-heat struck upon Kern’s new awareness
with an impact that jolted him out of this bewildering mental fog. Hate
and fear. He had felt that blast before, invisibly in the voids of
thought, and terror had come with it so that he fled blindly to escape.
But this time fear did not follow after the hate. This time he welcomed
conflict.

“Now we’re equals—matched equals,” he told himself, and felt even in
this moment of danger and surprise the utter difference of his own mind
through which thoughts moved slowly and clearly, like his new limbs
through the solidity of the glass. If he had ever owned a body of flesh
and blood, it was his no longer. If his mind had ever dwelt there and
shaped its thoughts to the contours of brain and skull, they were shaped
no longer. This was new, new, terrible and wonderful beyond human
understanding.

Slow exultation began to burn in him as he rolled the great coils of
fire which were his body toward that which until now had dwelt here
alone. Now the Mountain had a double mind—if the fiery ribbon was
indeed the mind of the thing—but moving still through a single gigantic
body of opalescent glass. And within that vast body, the doubled mind
moved upon itself in suicidal combat.

Hatred was a bath of flame that engulfed him as their farthest coiling
loops touched—touched and engaged with sudden violence. But Kern was
not afraid now, not repelled. With a surging lunge he tested the
strength in that shape which was the twin of his own. The ribbons
writhed and strained. Then they paused for a moment and drew back in
mutual consent. And simultaneously, as if hurled by a single mind,
lunged forward again.

This time the fiery limbs entangled until their full endlessly revolving
lengths were wholly engaged with one another and the two identical
shapes of rolling fire strove furiously together in a single knot that
boiled with ceaseless motion.

Hatred burned and bubbled all around Kern’s awareness as he strove coil
against coil with the enemy. But it did not touch him any more. He felt
no fear. And when he began to realize that he could not vanquish this
being by strength alone, not even then did he feel fear. Emotion was
gone from him. Coil by coil he tested the thing he strove with, and coil
by coil he found it braced irresistibly against his greatest strength.
He could not swerve it by a single loop.

But it could not swerve him. Matched in strength as they were in shape,
the two creatures of flame lay for a moment upon the clouded ice, limb
straining against limb in a perilous balance that permitted of no
motion.

Then, very delicately, the awareness that had been Kern reached out with
a sense he had not until this moment known he possessed, and touched the
frozen body of Bruce Hallam. For he knew now that he and this enemy were
too perfectly matched for either to prevail, unless one or the other
found a lever by which his adversary could be overthrown.

Was it Bruce? Gently, and then with increasing pressure, he tried that
rigid, unyielding body which had once been human. There was
nothing—nothing. Not even the discs of overlapping color which the
still-human exhibited to his new sight moved through Bruce’s limbs. He
was solid, unmoving, a shape of nothingness, and no sense could touch
him. No, Bruce was not the source through which strength might be
drained from the enemy.

What, then? Kern asked himself with passionless consideration. And the
answer came clearly and unhurried, as if it had waited only this query
to reply.

The winged men waiting outside the mountain—that was the answer.

Almost outstripping the thought, his sight and his strange new senses
leaped to the surface of the Mountain. There the slaves hung on
stretched wings, tilting to the updrafts from below, circling and
soaring and waiting in mindless obedience for the command that would
release them from their mental thrall.

Once he had seen them as winged humans fighting with fanatic violence.
Now they were only shapes of overlapping discs, full of slowly turning
motion, and in each the Eye of the Mountain swimming leisurely over the
surface of the colors.

_The Eye_, he thought. The Eye!

                 *        *        *        *        *

Like a new, unguessed arm his awareness shot out and plunged into the
nearest spot of darkness which swam over the colored discs. Plunged
in—groped for contact—and tapped a source of flame. Up through the arm
the flame leaped, and into Kern’s body of matching flame. Almost
imperceptibly he felt the straining coils of the enemy give beneath the
pressure of his own.

Another, and another and another of the flying shapes gave up its tiny
source of fire, and Kern’s strength grew with each. The combat which had
hung motionless in mutual violence now writhed suddenly into action
again as the balance was destroyed. But the fury of the enemy seemed to
double too as it felt itself bent backward upon its own fiery coils.

What had been combat before the stasis turned into abrupt turmoil now.
The two ribbons of flame convulsed together, lashing and whipping into
an incandescent fury of struggle. And Kern knew in a timeless moment or
two that even this was not enough. He must find some last source of
power to give him the victory.

The arm with which he had robbed the flying men of their Eyes groped,
plunged deeper, seeking more power within them. And amazingly, found it.

For an instant Kern could not understand why strength in a full, deep
tide flowed into him as the light began to fail in his enemy. And then
he understood, and a surge of triumph for the first time glowed through
his whole being.

For in giving its strength to its slaves, that it might command them,
the Enemy had opened a channel which ran both ways. And in draining the
slaves, Kern found himself draining the Enemy itself—reaching back and
back through each slave into the source from which that strength came.

From a score, a hundred channels, the Mountain must have felt its own
power drain away. Its power, but not its hate. Kern could feel the
sheer, inhuman malevolence burning about him in great washes of flame as
the strength of the coils against his grew steadily weaker. The fire
sank down within it, dimming and fading as the creature bled its own
power away—bled flame, and slowly, slowly died!

The turning ribbons of light no longer moved against Kern’s awareness.
His limbs engulfed not a luminous involuted band, but a thin, pale
hatred which fell apart as he drew his own body back. It fell apart into
a tiny rain of droplets, each of them dancing with its own seed of hate.
Twinkling, fading, and the hatred fading with them, until they were
gone.

Kern felt change all about him, in the substance of the Mountain itself.
A vast, imponderable shifting of the clouded glass, a falling apart of
the atoms which composed it, as its soul of fire had fallen. The
opalescent stuff was a fog—a mist—a thin, dissipating gas which no
longer supported him. The cold of clear air struck terribly upon his
fiery limbs as the Mountain dissolved from about him. He convulsed upon
himself in a knot of flame that seemed to consume itself and to
cease—to cease—

                 *        *        *        *        *

Everything was blank around him. Neither dark nor light, but void. He
hung motionless upon nothing. He was no longer a shape of flame. He was
no longer a shape of flesh. He was nothing, nowhere.

This was infinity, where time was not. For milleniums, he thought, he
drifted there upon oblivion. Milleniums, or moments!

From far away a something began to be. He did not recognize it—he knew
only that where nothingness had been, now there was a something. He
heard a call. That was it, a call, a sound of incredible sweetness.

A voice? Yes, it was a voice of sheer melody, saying a name. He did not
know the name.

“Kern—Kern,” it cried. The syllable had no meaning to him, but the
sweetness of the voice that shaped it gradually began to rouse him from
his stupor. Over and over the syllable sounded, and then with a sudden
blaze of awareness he knew it for what it was.

“My name!” he thought with amazement. “My own name!”

The mind came back into him, and he knew. Like Bruce Hallam, he had hung
frozen and empty from the touch of the all-consuming fire which had been
himself. Like Bruce, he had been emptier than death.

“Kern, Kern, come back,” wailed the voice of impossible sweetness. He
knew it now. Byrna’s voice, lovely as a siren’s magical song, summoning
him back to the living.

[Illustration: He heard a voice of impossible sweetness, and slowly,
slowly, he felt warmth return to him.]

Slowly, slowly, he felt warmth return to him. Slowly he drew his mind
together again, and then his body came back around him, and with
infinite effort he lifted the eyelids that shut out the world.

He lay on a hillside in the full warm tide of the sunlight which poured
down from an empty sky. There was no Mountain any more. No vertiginous
thunderhead of glass towering up the zenith, casting its pale shadow
across the world. Someone bent over him, holding her wings to shut the
sun’s glare from his eyes. Her wings glistened.

Tentatively he flexed his own. And then strength came back with a
magical rush to him, and he sat up with a strong beat of his pinions
that almost lifted him from the ground. All around him smiling faces
watched in the shadow of their wings.

And he knew that he was free at last, and the winged world was free. And
he was no longer alien.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAY OF THE GODS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
