The Project Gutenberg eBook of Picnic, by Milton Lesser

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Picnic

Author: Milton Lesser

Illustrator: EBERLE

Release Date: July 24, 2022 [eBook #68600]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PICNIC ***





                                Picnic

                           BY MILTON LESSER

                         ILLUSTRATED BY EBERLE

       Burt was tired of taking his family out to the asteroids
           for a picnic every week-end. But with a wife and
        two spoiled brats to goad him into the regular routine,
             what could a man do? Only, as it turned out,
         this particular picnic wasn't quite regular routine!

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Rocket Stories, July 1953.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Burt reached out for the stud that would fire the fore-rockets, but a
small white hand already rested on the button.

"Let me, Daddy. You promised--"

When he wanted something, Johnny's voice took on that wailing quality.
He wanted something now; Burt had promised him that he could land the
ship.

"Okay," Burt said. "Press it--now. Now!"

Johnny took his hand off the stud. "Don't holler at _me_," he told his
father severely.

Burt swore under his breath and jammed down on the stud. A red light
overhead winked on and off furiously, and he knew that if he had
waited another moment they would have plowed into the asteroid like a
battering ram into a tub of soft butter.

"Marcia, oh Marcia!" he turned and called over his shoulder to his wife.

She stuck her head in through the galley door. "Dear," she said, "let
me make these sandwiches, will you? I don't tell you how to pilot the
ship, but I'll never get this lunch all packed unless you let me alone."

Burt scowled. "That's the general idea. I want to be let alone, too. So
if you'll just take your darling little son the devil out of here--"

"Why, Burt Rogers! Johnny's only eight, and he's quite harmless. If I
had known ten years ago that you didn't like children--"

Burt shook his head. "Joan's fine. Joan is two years younger than
Johnny, but she doesn't bother anyone. She just sits in the galley
and--"

"Hah!" Marcia snorted. "She sits in the galley and digs her arms into
the mayonnaise tub up to the elbows, that's all."

"Well, then they're both brats."

"Burt!"

"They are, and it's your fault, Marcia. You always say let the children
express themselves, we can't frustrate them or cut them short in any
way--so look what happens."

"You look what happens," Marcia declared dramatically. "If we don't
pull out of the dive in a couple of seconds, we'll splatter all over
that planetoid."

"Let me land it, let me land it!" wailed Johnny.

Burt spun to the controls, and his fingers flicked rapidly over
the buttons. He was sweating when he brought the ship down with a
none-too-gentle dump. He heard Joan's whimper from inside the galley,
and Marcia began to tell him what a lousy pilot he was. Johnny was
playing cops and robbers with the topography through the foreport.

"This," Burt said, "is the last week-end picnic for me. Definitely the
last."

Marcia opened her mouth to say something, but Burt cut her off. "I
don't want to hear any more about it. You'll just have to find another
way for the kids to express themselves...."

       *       *       *       *       *

They usually found an asteroid with a weird terrain, and just looking
at it through the portable bubble-sphere kept the kids pretty busy.
This time, however, things were different. The asteroid was only
twenty miles in diameter, yet it had an atmosphere of oxygen and inert
gases, and it was comfortably warm. No bubble-sphere this time to keep
the kids hemmed in--and Johnny and Joan would be roving all over the
uncharted surface.

Burt shuddered. What a job he'd have today. But then, this was the last
time: they could talk themselves blue in the face and plead, but this
was the last time.... And maybe there'd be life, since there was air
and warmth. But that was silly: a body this size would not have life,
and even if Johnny took advantage of the low gravity and jumped thirty
feet in the air, he wouldn't get hurt--he'd float down gently as a
feather.

Marcia pouted as she spread the table-cloth out on a flat expanse of
rock. Burt put his hand on her shoulder, but she pulled away from him.
"Brats, eh?" she muttered.

"Well, maybe I didn't mean it that way. But you just name me another
father at Marsport who takes his family up in a spaceship every Sunday
to go picnicking. And a different asteroid each week. Ed Jones sits on
his fanny all week-end, and Tom Ferris spends Saturday night in the
gambling joints so he's dead on his feet Sunday and can hardly stay
awake during the church services."

Marcia took his hand and placed it back on her shoulder. "Okay,
dear--you're wonderful. But that doesn't give you permission to call my
children 'brats'."

Burt smiled. "_My_ children, too. And, well--if they're not brats,
we've certainly spoiled them...."

Johnny's voice cut through the thin air. "Pop. Hey, pop. C'mere!"

Burt got up, laughing. "So that's how you teach your kids to call their
old man, eh?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Burt walked toward the incredibly close horizon. You could see the
curvature of the tiny planet quite distinctly, and in a tight circle
all around them the pale blue sky came down and met the jumble of rocks
and crystal which was the surface of the asteroid. Johnny had called
from someplace beyond the horizon, and as he walked, Burt heard him
again: "You deaf, pop? C'mere!"

Johnny was standing, little hands on little hips, near a mound of dull
metal. No, it wasn't a mound--it was battered and twisted and rusted,
but the tear-drop shape was unmistakable. A spaceship....

Burt found the ancient airlock and pushed through the rusted door. He
looked at the control panel. "It's an old Havelock," he muttered, "I'll
be damned. They haven't made these in twenty years."

He went outside again, where Johnny still stood.

"Pretty nifty, eh pop?" the boy said.

Burt called: "Marcia. Hey, Marcia. C'mere!"

Leading Joan by her hand, Marcia reached them in a few minutes. "Don't
wonder why Johnny called you like that, Burt Rogers. Just don't you
wonder at all. He's a chip off the old block, that's what he is."

Joan said, "Mama, what's a chip off the old block?"

"Later, dear, later. What's on your mind, Burt?"

He gestured. "This--"

Marcia stared. "Why, it's--it's a spaceship!"

"It is," Johnny nodded. "An old Havelock Cruiser. And I found it."

"But these people must have crashed here years ago."

"Yeah. Look, Marcia, you better take the kids away while I look for the
remains. Got to find them and report to the police at Marsport when we
get back, but there's no reason why the kids have to see."

Marcia took Johnny's hand in one of her own and Joan's in the other,
and she walked away with them beyond the close horizon. "Okay, Burt,"
she called back. "You can start looking."

Burt did not like the task ahead of him, but with general space travel
still less than half a century old, lost ships were no rarity, and he
considered himself morally obligated to find the bodies. He was back
in the Havelock now, and it was a small ship. He covered it in five
minutes, and he scratched his head. No one ... there were all the signs
of occupation, but no one was around. Dishes for three were set on the
plastalloy table, with a blubbery green mass on each plate, billowing
over on to the table. That meant that there had been food on those
dishes when, quite suddenly, the three people had disappeared. It also
meant that bacteria, at least, flourished on this asteroid. And--what
else? Why had the three people disappeared, why had they vanished
utterly with a meal waiting for them on the table--

"Burt! Burt!" It was Marcia, and she was screaming.

       *       *       *       *       *

Burt poked his head outside the broken airlock. Marcia was running
toward the Havelock. "Burt--get out. To me, quick!"

Burt looked up. Toward the other horizon was a slight hill, not a
very high one, but enough for Marcia to have seen it from beyond the
horizon. And rolling down that hill now, gathering speed as it came,
was a massive boulder.

Heading straight for the Havelock--

Burt scrambled up out of the airlock, cursing when his trousers caught
on an edge of rusted metal. He tugged at them and heard them rip. Then
he was clear and running toward Marcia.

With a great grinding crashing sound the rock plowed into the Havelock,
smashing it and crushing the half-corroded metal flat. Burt looked back
at a big cloud of dust, and when it cleared, the Havelock looked like
so much scrap. If he had been inside he would have been crushed to a
pulp. Less than a pulp, they never would have found him.

"Burt! Burt--" Marcia was sobbing against his chest. "Of all the freak
accidents--"

"Uh-uh." He shook his head as they walked back to the broken remains of
the Havelock. "That was no accident."

He pointed to the little hill. "That hasn't got a slope of more than
ten degrees, honey. It couldn't have been an accident. The rock never
could have gathered so much momentum on that hill."

"Not an accident?"

"No. Someone--something--pushed that rock."

The boulder was unmoving now, fifty yards from the scrap heap which had
been the Havelock Cruiser.

Marcia said, "Someone pushed _that_? It's as big as the ship, Burt. It
weighs five tons if it weighs an ounce. Maybe in this slight gravity--"

Burt shook his head. "Even that wouldn't account for it. That rock was
pushed."

Marcia clung to him, shuddering. "Burt, let's get the children and
leave this place!"

He nodded, and he was about to call Johnny, when something bounded high
into the air over the horizon, then floated down, gently. "Johnny!"
Marcia cried.

"He's detached his equalizer," Burt said. "That crazy kid--"

Each of them had one of the little gravity equalizers at his belt. It
was a clever invention: you wore it in space flight, and you never
became weightless as space-travelers did in the old days. And you wore
it on any planet, creating earth-norm gravity. Now Johnny had detached
his, and he weighed no more than a couple of pounds here on the tiny
asteroid.

Something else bounded high into the air, came floating down. Johnny
called: "Lookit us. We're birds, that's what we are. We're birds!"

Burt knew that Johnny had removed Joan's equalizer as well. Two forms
came bouncing toward them over the wild terrain. "Just press the button
to the left," Burt pleaded. "Press it to the left like a good boy,
Johnny. You do it and we'll give you a present."

"Naa. This is fun. You try and get me."

But Joan was crying, and she did not know what to do. Every time she
landed, she tried to take a step forward and she soared high into the
air again. Closer bounded the two figures, and Johnny soared right by,
almost near enough to touch. Burt dove for him, and came up clutching
air. Johnny bounded away again, and, calling threats and taunts behind
him, he disappeared over the hill, in the direction from which the
boulder had come.

Marcia had been luckier. She held Joan by one arm now, re-adjusting the
equalizer with her free hand. Joan sat down, crying. "I have Joan,"
Marcia told her husband. "You go and get Johnny, Burt. Get him--quick.
I don't like this place."

Burt didn't like it, either. _Something had pushed that rock._

Marcia screamed. "Burt--look."

The rocks and rubble near the remains of the Havelock were rumbling and
grinding. Burt heard a great cracking sound, like a huge dead branch
breaking. The ground near the Havelock trembled and the shock of it
reached them. Burt sat down hard, and he saw Joan and Marcia fall in a
heap.

He tried to get up, but he couldn't; the ground was still trembling.
A crack appeared near the Havelock, and it crawled along the ground
slowly, crookedly. It crawled at a snail's pace, less than a snail's
pace--but it moved. And it grew. It was as wide as Burt's arm. Wider.
It grew.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly, it gaped wide, and the grinding and rumbling was louder. It
opened into a cavernous maw--right under the Havelock. For a moment the
Havelock stood poised, as if on air--and then the battered; flattened
ship disappeared within the hole, clattering against the walls as it
fell.

The ground shuddered again, violently; the hole became a crack, closing
in upon itself. It disappeared altogether, and only the rough terrain
remained.

But the Havelock was gone.

Marcia stood up. "An earthquake?" She trembled.

"On a planetoid twenty miles in diameter? Don't be silly. You'd need an
unstable interior for an earthquake--and this little globe cooled and
stabilized long ago."

"Yes? Then why is it warm?"

She had him there, and Burt didn't know. Why was the asteroid warm? If
he knew the answer to that, he might know the answer to a lot of things.

"This is stupid, Burt. Let's stop talking and find Johnny. He could be
half way around the asteroid by now, or more."

Burt shook his head. "We can't all go and look. Joan would delay us.
You stay here with her, Marcia--or, better still, get back to the ship
with her and stay inside. I'll find Johnny and bring him back. Then
we'll get the devil out of here."

Marcia smiled wanly. "That I'd like. And Burt?"

"Yeah, kid?"

"Be careful...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Burt felt like a kangaroo. Only no earthly kangaroo had ever taken
leaps like this. He had flicked the switch of the gravity equalizer
over to the right, shutting off the power. Then he had taken off in
great leaps, looking for Johnny. His jumps carried him forty or fifty
feet in the air, and then he floated down, almost weightless.

With concentration, he could have avoided those high leaps. He could
have propelled himself forward, fifty and sixty feet at a jump, but he
did not want to. The horizon was too close, and the only way he could
find Johnny was like this. As he reached the apex of each leap, he
could see much further than he could on the ground, and he was looking
for the boy.

Once he thought he saw Johnny, a tiny blob way off in the distance,
but he came down from his jump too soon, and he could not be sure. He
called loudly, and everything else was quiet, and his voice was almost
frightening. Soon the ground felt spongy to him, but he shrugged it
off. As soon as he landed, he was off again, and it probably was his
imagination. Hard rock did not become spongy like this, not suddenly,
without warning, with no possible explanation.

But once he landed hard, and he rested a moment, panting. He moved
his feet and they slopped about, like on a muddy field. He reached
down carefully. One wrong move would upset his equilibrium and he'd go
shooting off into the air. He touched the ground, and it was wet. He
pushed, and he felt his hand sinking in, slowly. Fascinated, he pushed
again. His hand disappeared to the wrist.

Something was trying to suck him down further, and he tugged. He pulled
his hand out with a loud slopping sound, and instinctively he jumped
away. He soared into the air again, and when he came down, it was only
for a moment--just long enough to leap.

The ground was spongy. And when he was standing there, with his
hand immersed to the wrist, the soft spongy stuff had been pulsing,
throbbing.

Almost as if it were alive....

His mind did not tackle the problem further. Ahead he saw Johnny--now
it was more than his imagination; Johnny was there, leaping into the
air ahead of him.

Burt reached the apex of his flight, cupped his hands and yelled
through them:

"Johnny! Johnny!"

"Hi, pop!"

The voice came back faintly, playfully.

"Johnny, when you touch ground next time, turn that switch to the left."

"Naa--I'm having fun."

"When I get you, Johnny...."

"Aw, okay. Kill joy. What a worry wart."

Apparently, Johnny had turned on his equalizer. Burt saw him on the
ground, waiting, and three big leaps brought him there.

Now Johnny was crying.

"What the devil are you crying for? You've jumped around enough--"

"Pop, please. I'm sorry. Get me outa here!"

Johnny was stuck. He was in the spongy ground, up to his ankles. The
stuff sucked around his shins, drawing him down further every second,
like quicksand. Burt could feel it pulsing as he landed, but it did not
suck him in. With the equalizer off, he weighed much less than Johnny
did, and now he was tugging at the boy, pulling at his shoulders,
grabbing him under the armpits and tugging, tugging....

Johnny came loose suddenly, and Burt soared with him several feet into
the air. On the way up, he switched the boy's equalizer off again, and
Johnny said:

"You just told me not to, now you do it yourself. What a pop."

Johnny was spoiled and Johnny was precocious, but Burt thought of
neither now. Johnny was nothing more than a little bundle which he had
to get back to the spaceship. And then they had to leave, all four of
them.

The spaceship ... Marcia did not know how to pilot it, she couldn't
lift it off the ground. And the sucking, spongy stuff might engulf
the ship, take it down into some unknown womb of the world. They'd be
marooned. Marcia and Joan--

All of them.

The trip back was a wild one. Burt tucked his son under one arm and
leaped. He kept low to the ground this time, skimming its surface,
sometimes leaping as much as seventy feet with one bounding stride.
With each stride, the ground became more spongy, and Burt realized with
a sinking heart that the surface could never hold the spaceship up. It
would be the same as if it had plunged through the gaping maw in the
hard rock with the Havelock--either way it would be gone.

Johnny liked the ride. Every time they landed, he would say, "Again,
pop. Again!" And wordless, Burt would leap once more.

Once he jumped high and he thought he saw the spaceship gleaming in the
rays of the sun. But that was impossible. It would surely sink.

And then he came down and he did see it. It was there, on a hard
expanse of flat rock, where he had left it. Here the ground seemed
normal--

He heard Marcia's scream before he saw her. Then she came around the
hull of the spaceship, dragging Joan. Screaming again, she fell flat.

       *       *       *       *       *

Something whizzed by her head, and even from this distance Burt could
see that it was a rock the size of a watermelon. She got up again,
and she ran forward, but then a whole shower of rocks came after her,
smaller this time, two handfuls of egg-sized rocks, thrown by an
invisible giant.

He had to be invisible--Burt could see no one. Yet the rocks were being
thrown, somehow. Or--the thought suddenly occurred to Burt--they were
throwing themselves. The rocks moved under their own power. It was a
wild thought and a crazy one, but it made sense. Every other part of
the planetoid was soft and spongy. But here--near the ship--the surface
was still hard. And rocks were being thrown. Burt could tell this
had been happening for a long time, because the hull of the ship was
scarred from the fusilade.

It was unreasonable to suppose that this tiny area, alone of the
entire sphere, could not become spongy. Then there was a reason why
it remained hard--and where there was reason there was sentience. And
further, why hadn't a big stone been thrown, one large enough to crush
their Pacemaker as the Havelock had been crushed? There certainly were
enough stones around--

Everything indicated a _game_. Something was playing with them. They
were easy prey, they were dead ducks--but something was having fun
with them first. They were goners, they didn't have a chance, and that
something needed the activity and the recreation. It was a sadistic
game. Back on earth, some of the kids had stripped the wings off flies,
made them hop about dizzily, helplessly, until they tired of the sport.
And then they had crushed them....

The planetoid was playing with them!

Burt called: "Get inside the ship, Marcia! Inside!"

"I can't. If I stand still long enough to manipulate the lock, these
stones will get me. Burt--"

"I'm coming!"

He switched on his equalizer and Johnny's, and still holding the boy
under one arm, he plunged across the rock. Something reached up and
tripped him, and he sprawled out flat. He had fallen over a small
out-cropping of rock--where no out-cropping had been before.

He got up, and then he reached the Pacemaker. He pushed Johnny in front
of him, and the boy stood with his sister. Marcia looked up:

"How are we going to get inside, Burt?"

"You just open the lock. Come on, now."

She turned her back and went to work on the dials. Burt stood there,
waiting for the stones that would come, hunching himself over, trying
to cover the three of them--

No stones came.

Instead, he heard an ominous cracking sound, a rumbling....

Off where the spongy ground joined the hard rock a crack appeared.
It was small, but it grew. And it moved. It snaked along the ground,
slowly, twisting, heading for the ship. Now it was half as wide as
Johnny's body, and now it was wider.

Burt pushed Marcia away and attacked the lock with clumsy fingers.
His hand trembled, but Marcia huddled against the side of the hull,
sobbing, and he knew she could not have handled the dials in time.

_Three around and then four over: damn it, there's the blue light, but
he still needed the white and red. Five around and one over--ah, the
white! Two around and six over--red, white, and blue!_

He pushed Johnny and Joan in front of him, then he grabbed Marcia
around the waist and hurled her inside. The crack was half as wide as
the Pacemaker now, rumbling, churning--and growing.

He ran to the controls and he kicked the engine over. He felt the
ship poise on the brink, as he had seen the Havelock do before it had
plunged within a similar hole. He felt the ship totter, and then he
fired the studs for all the aft rockets at once. The ship roared once
and he was shoved back hard in his seat. Then they hurtled furiously
sky-ward.

       *       *       *       *       *

Below them now, the planetoid was a writhing, twisting mass, shooting
pulpy tentacles miles into space, groping for them, seeking. But they
were out of reach. Burt circled a few times, watching the stone globe
which now was a living entity.

Behind him, Marcia watched too. "It's--alive," she said.

"Yes. Sleeping when we arrived, but it's alive now. Twenty years ago it
ate the people of that Havelock, and then it became sluggish. Evidently
it does not need much food, for all its vast bulk. It became sluggish
and it slept, and when we landed we stirred it and it finished the job
on that Havelock. Then it wanted us...."

"But _alive_?"

"Why not?" Burt said. "Part plant, part animal, it's warm with its own
life. It breathes slowly, holding the thin atmosphere to its body,
growing plants for photosynthesis when it needs oxygen, a perfectly
co-ordinated being."

"So big, Burt. It's so big."

"Sure. On Mars the native life is bigger than on earth. Why?"

"Why? I don't know."

"Because Mars has a weaker gravity pull, being smaller than the earth.
And here, out in space, there is no gravity to keep life down. A plant
grows and grows as long as it lives, unlike an animal. This huge
asteroid has been growing for ages, millions of years, maybe. What's to
stop it? No gravity pressing down. Perhaps it can live purely on the
mineral matter of the meteors which fall. Maybe it's only a seed, with
food-matter stored up inside. Who knows?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Johnny and Joan came out from the galley. Joan said:

"Mama, I'm hungry."

Marcia laughed. "We never did have that picnic, Burt."

"Uh-huh. You're right--so we didn't. But this damn asteroid almost
did--on us."

"Papa," Johnny said, "let's land someplace and have a picnic."

"Go to hell," Burt said, forgetting he was speaking to a boy, his boy.

"Burt! Then you wonder why Johnny curses. Just watch your language in
front of the children, Burt Rogers!"

"Okay," he said. "But no more picnics. I'm going to report this thing
to the police, and they'll blow it out of the sky with atomite. Then
we'll have a nice meal at home. But no more picnics, ever. I'll take
the kids to the Canalport swimming pool on week-ends--half-way around
the planet. But no more picnics."

"Please, papa," Johnny said.

Marcia nodded. "Look. He's being polite."

Burt sighed. He knew he could get away with it this week-end. But later
on in the month--or certainly next month--there would be more picnics.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PICNIC ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
