The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Ring bonanza, by Otto Binder

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Ring bonanza

Author: Otto Binder

Release Date: August 6, 2022 [eBook #68700]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RING BONANZA ***





                           THE RING BONANZA

                            By OTTO BINDER

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Startling Stories, July 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The rings of Saturn stretched like a level sheet in all directions,
though actually composed of millions of tiny bodies. Homer Timkin
carefully braked with the nose rockets till he floated motionlessly
with respect to the ring's own rotary motion around its primary. Then
he eagerly donned his vac-suit.

Had he struck it rich this time? Through his binoculars, a moment
ago, he had seen the glint of one small jagged lump among the ring
debris--and it had glinted like gold or silver. There was vast treasure
among the rings, if one could find it....

In his vac-suit he used his reaction pistol to propel him down toward
the glinting mass. In his eagerness, he almost failed to see the other
ring body which now hurtled up, pursuing its own independent orbit
within the grander sweep of the rings.

Timkin braked with his reaction pistol only in time to let the marauder
lumber past, scraping his foot. He let out his breath with a hiss.
That had been close. Many a ring prospector never returned to the
Titan docks, because of some such accident as this, creeping up on you
unawares.

More than prospecting in earth's out-of-the-way spots had ever been
it was a hazardous occupation among Saturn's rings. But it had its
enticing rewards and lures. Some prospectors returned with a load of
precious metals or uncut virgin diamonds that made them rich for life.

Timkin reached the glinting body he had previously spied. It was
irregular in shape, some five feet in its greatest diameter. And it had
a yellow tinge in the soft light shed by huge Saturn over his shoulder.
Timkin permitted himself wild hope as he chipped off a piece with his
belt pick. He held the chip up to his glassine visor, squinting at the
grain.

His face fell slack.

"Fool's gold!" he muttered, flinging the piece away in a small fury.

It was just pyrites, worth a few cents a pound in the market and not
worth the hauling. Timkin sat down on the miniature worldlet and cursed
all the gods of luck and ill luck. He had been out a month now, and no
bonanza. Of course, it had been so for the past ten years. Each year
the old prospector hoped for his big find, and each year he only eked
out a precarious living, picking up odd bits from the rings.

He looked with bleary eye over the plane of the rings, stretching
vastly in all directions. Timkin was not young any more. His lean spare
body could not stand the rigors of space much longer. His leathery,
seamed face showed the strain of countless near-escapes from death. If
he didn't strike it rich this trip he'd have to retire--poor. He'd be
one of those derelicts, haunting the Titan docks and mooching meals.

He shuddered.

Hopelessly, he watched the endless parade of the rings. By far the most
of their expanse was just worthless rock. Then he saw a jet black lump
not far off. It was coal. Timkin grinned mirthlessly.

Coal had been used as an industrial fuel and chemical storehouse some
200 years ago. Today it was no more than a curiosity in museums. That
was his luck--spotting things in the rings that would barely pay the
expenses of his trip.

As he sat he also saw a whitish mass further along--fossil bones. And
nearby, a dully shining angular object, probably a bit of machinery.

Sighing, Timkin got up. "Got to make expenses," he muttered. "Might as
well collect those odds and ends."

His reaction pistol took him to the lump of coal. It was four feet in
diameter but in weightless space it was no strain for Timkin to push it
toward his ship and stow it through the back lock into the hold.

Then he went back for the space-bleached bones. Theory had it that
there had once been a moon of Saturn within two-and-a-half diameters
of the giant planet. Gravitational stresses had then exploded the moon
into countless fragments, which took up the same orbit after spreading
out and thus came to be the unique rings.

       *       *       *       *       *

Seemingly, there had once been life, and civilization, on the destroyed
moon. Fossil bones, once buried within the moon's crust, now floated
within the ring debris--and bits of machinery of some vanished and
unknown race. There was no oxygen or moisture in space to rust them and
thus the metal remained perfectly preserved through eons of time.

Timkin looked musingly at the bones, as he shoved them to his ship.
They made up part of the skeleton of an ancient creature that possibly
resembled an earthly tiger. The Saturn Archeological Museum would pay
five SS-dollars for this--Solar System Dollars, the standard currency.
Not too bad.

Finally, Timkin got the bit of machinery. It consisted of a broken
portion of a huge cogged wheel with dangling wires and bits of other
enigmatic mechanical devices. Timkin wondered just how advanced the
people had been who once inhabited the first moon. That was something
even the experts didn't know with the few poor clues they had collected.

For a moment, Timkin's imagination wandered. He pictured life on the
first moon, before the debacle. Towering cities--humming wheels--busy,
industrious people. Then, abruptly, their world cracking apart, into a
billion bits. And now only this remained ... the rings of Saturn.

As Timkin brought the broken wheel to his ship he took one last look
around and saw another museum item. It had circled in slow gyrations
and come into view from the back of his ship. Timkin got that too,
perhaps the most intriguing find of the lot, for it was a stone with
mysterious "writing" on it. The museum had quite a collection of such
stones, evidently parts of temples or buildings.

Seemingly the people of the first moon had inscribed most of their
stone walls with their writings. But these writings had never been
translated. They were a riddle that baffled the best archeological
minds of the System.

He also put this carved stone in the hold.

"Huh," he grunted. "I'm just a scavenger for the museum, that's what I
am."

Timkin looked over the things crammed in his hold, gleaned from the
rings for a month. Their total value would possibly pay for the trip
with a few SS-dollars to spare. Yet one find of gold or precious stone
and he would dump the whole mess out and be far the richer.

Growling to himself, Timkin took off his vac-suit and went to the
controls. He debated. He still had food and fuel enough for three days
before he had to return to the Titan docks. What should he do?

"I'm going to the Crêpe Ring," he finally told himself. "I had no luck
in Rings A and B, so why not try C just to play it out to the finish?"

Timkin had started, a month ago, at the outer ring--Ring A. This
portion of the rings had an outer diameter of 171,000 miles and
extended inward toward Saturn for 11,100 miles.

Then there was a separation of 2,200 miles between rings A and B named
Cassini's Division when first seen through earthly telescopes centuries
ago.

Ring B was 145,000 miles, outer diameter, and some 18,000 miles wide.
Another space of 1000 miles and then came Ring C or the Crêpe Ring,
11,000 miles wide. So had the rings of Saturn distributed themselves,
under the laws of gravitation, when the first moon exploded ages
before. The first moon had not been large, for the total mass of all
the rings was estimated at no more than one-quarter of earth's moon.

Timkin urged his old rattletrap _Jetabout_ up from the plane of
the rings till he had a clear path before him and then jetted
straight toward mighty Saturn, which hung in the sky like a bloated,
vari-colored marble.

He crossed the narrow empty space between Rings B and C and finally
cruised over the outer edges of the Crêpe Ring. Saturn was only 17,000
miles distant and Timkin could feel the faint tug of its powerful
gravitation.

"Now," Timkin said between set teeth, "let's see if I have any luck.
I've got three days to nose around through the Crêpe Ring, searching. I
know there's gold or diamonds ahead ... if I can just stumble on them."

       *       *       *       *       *

As he slowly cruised above the Crêpe Ring, with his binoculars to his
eyes, Timkin munched a sandwich and now and then took a swig of coffee.
In all their explorations of other worlds earthmen had never found any
beverage better than time-honored coffee, though the Martians tried
hard to sell a green-tinted product called _tukka_.

Timkin's hand gave a little jerk, and his binoculars wavered. Watching
him one would have thought he had spied something exciting--like gold.
But it was something else, almost equally as startling....

"Another _Jetabout_!" Timkin murmured. "Gave me a start, seeing it so
suddenly."

It was a rare event when two wandering _Jetabouts_ happened to cross
paths in the vast area of the rings, almost like two explorers in the
heart of Africa meeting each other. Timkin grinned humorlessly.

"Another chump!" he thought. "He wouldn't have a bonanza, or he'd be
streaking back for Titan. He's cruising and looking for something like
me."

Timkin flashed his heliograph, reflecting the light of Saturn, at the
other ship. An answering greeting flashed back. Timkin watched it as it
kept going on its course and slowly faded into distance. He felt less
lonely for a moment.

Timkin went back to his scanning of the ring bodies with his glasses.
He saw another lump of coal but was too wearied at the thought of
donning his vac-suit for it, and let it go by under him. It was
not till a minute later that he snapped to attention. For now he
remembered, belatedly, that he had also seen a yellow glow near the
black coal.

"Day-dreaming, that's what I was!" he yelled, hastily braking and
spinning the _Jetabout_ around. "If that was gold, and I don't find it
again, I'll...."

It was not easy to backtrack in the rings, and find a certain spot you
had passed over. The rings were constantly in motion, in their orbit
around Saturn. And each body in the rings had its own private motion in
respect to the others. Some gyrated fantastically around others.

A huge body might in turn exert enough gravitation of its own to hold
smaller bodies in its grip, and force them to become its "moons." And
these satellites then perturbed nearby bodies, causing them to weave
and shuttle within the ring.

In short, any body in the ring might shift position enough in the space
of a minute or two to be lost forever.

Timkin shot back to the coal lump. Yes, the coal lump was there, not
having a complicated private motion. But where was the yellow lump that
his blind eyes had seen--and ignored? There were a hundred other little
bodies around the coal lump and to look them all over one by one....

Timkin's heart sank to its lowest ebb before suddenly he saw the yellow
glint again. Then, thankfully, he shot the _Jetabout_ over it and
hovered, locking the controls. Minutes later in his vac-suit he was
propelling himself down to the yellow lump via reaction pistol.

"It's only fool's gold, of course," he told himself to calm his
wildly racing pulse. "Just think of it as fool's gold, so you won't
be disappointed again. Or it could be cheap copper. So don't get
excited--yet."

Timkin reached the yellow body, fumbled with his pick and finally
chipped off a piece. He noticed it sheared off under the hard pick,
rather than chipped. He dared to hope it was soft gold. And when he
held the bit to his visor....

"Gold!"

He said the one word quietly. Then he sat down on the lump, shaken.

"Gold," he repeated. "I hit it--gold! My bonanza! My dream for ten
years!"

It was minutes before he could control his shaking nerves and allow
the warm glow of exultation to spread through him like wine, giving
him new strength. He arose and, like a bird, made a circle around the
lump, using his reaction pistol. He estimated its weight as a thousand
pounds, earth measure. Then he stopped to stand on it again, a king on
an island.

"Of course, it ain't pure gold," Timkin told himself. "But it looks
like about fifty percent pure. They say the first moon before it
exploded didn't have many seas to dissolve and thin out ore deposits.
So I can figure about five hundred pounds of gold. At the pegged rate
of thirty-seven SS-dollars an ounce...."

Timkin's head was too light and buzzy to reach the total.

"But I'm rich," he exulted. "Filthy rich. Gold is even more valuable
today than it used to be on earth in the old days."

       *       *       *       *       *

Timkin was right. Contrary to all fanciful and unfounded predictions,
gold had never lost its value. True, the nations of earth had all gone
off the gold-standard in the 20th century and for a while gold was a
forgotten metal, buried in vaults.

But then it came into its own as one of the most non-corrodable metals.
When space travel came into being, an alloy of gold became the standard
coating for all equipment used on other worlds, some of which had
noxious atmospheres that could rust iron or copper in days to worthless
dust.

But gold in its alloy-hardened form defied the worst other worlds had
to offer. Thereupon gold became a metal of commerce and its value rose
even higher than its one-time value as a money standard.

And so, with his find of gold, Homer Timkin was as suddenly wealthy as
any Spanish explorer of the New World, back in earth's past.

"It's sure going to be a pleasure," crowed Timkin, "to drag this lump
of gold back to Titan!"

"Yeh, it is--for _me_!"

Timkin jumped at the sound of the voice behind him, coming out of
nowhere. He turned, gaping, to see another man in a vac-suit slowly
approaching, with a reaction pistol. Timkin could see the newcomer's
_Jetabout_ now, parked alongside his own. Timkin had been too engrossed
in his find to see the approach of the ship.

"Huck Larsoe!" said Timkin in recognition for he knew all the other
prospectors back at the Titan docks.

"Yeh, Timkin," returned Huck Larsoe, grinning. "I was the _Jetabout_
that passed you a while ago. Just before you went out of my sight, I
saw your ship suddenly scoot on a backtrack. That spelled a find to me!
So I turned and came back, and followed you up."

Timkin didn't like it. Huck Larsoe was a younger man and filled out
his vac-suit with a powerful, hulking body. His stubble of unshaven
black beard formed an unkempt fringe to the hard-bitten face that
peered out of the visor. There was something in his cold grey eyes
that froze Timkin. There was such a thing as claim-jumping here in the
lawless territory of the rings.

"You sure struck it rich," Huck Larsoe went on. "But maybe you didn't
hear me before. I said it was lucky--for _me_!"

"Y-you can't take this from me," Timkin began, his voice tinny as it
came out of the chin-transmitter to impinge on the radio vibrators at
Larsoe's ears. "It's mine! I found it!"

"Sure, you found it," agreed Larsoe. "But I'm taking it away from you,
see?"

"No!" shrilled Timkin. "That's plain robbery--piracy! I'll tell the
police back at Titan."

Larsoe leered. "And what witnesses have you got? You and me are the
only two humans around here for 50,000 miles. It'll be your word
against mine back at Titan. If I say I found it myself and you're
trying to cut in on it they'll have to believe me. Because _I'll_ have
the gold."

Timkin had no weapon. The reaction "pistol" was not a weapon at all,
merely a device for moving in space by means of short, harmless rocket
blasts. He struggled against the bigger man. Larsoe laughed as he gave
the slighter man a shove that sent him spinning off the lump and almost
into another ring body with jagged edges.

[Illustration: Larsoe laughed as he gave the slighter man a shove.]

Then, still laughing, Huck Larsoe shoved the mass of gold to his own
ship, his reaction pistol streaming red flame behind him. He turned his
mocking face.

"I ain't even going to kill you, Timkin, like I could. No need going
to the trouble. It's still your word against mine, back at Titan. You
ain't got a ghost of a chance to _prove_ this is your find."

Slowly Timkin rocketed back to his own ship. He watched Larsoe stow the
gold in his hold and cast out a mess of fossil bones, lumps of coal,
bits of machinery and pieces of carved stone.

"Here, Timkin," Larsoe chortled. "You can have this other junk of mine
now. It'll help you pay for your trip, anyways. See? I ain't such a bad
guy at heart."

And with a mocking laugh, Larsoe slipped into his cabin lock. A moment
later his ship rocketed away and was lost in black space, leaving a
broken old man behind.

Timkin floated beside his ship for long bitter minutes without the
energy to do anything. Ten years of searching and hope wasted--ten
years of hardship and toil. Fate had at last rewarded him with a
magnificent bonanza--and then had kicked him in the teeth.

Timkin was on the verge of madness. For a moment he thought of opening
his reaction pistol wide, gunning straight for the ring bodies and
seeking peace and eternal rest there.

       *       *       *       *       *

But then, shudderingly, he brought himself back to sanity. The will
to live triumphed as it did in all living creatures in the universe.
He looked at the stuff which Larsoe had cast from his ship, which was
slowly drifting away, scattering.

Rousing himself, Timkin began collecting it and stowing it in his hold.
No need to let the stuff go, even if it was a mocking gift from the
hated thief. He still had to make a profit on the trip.

Timkin held one carved stone in his hand for a moment, staring at its
ancient writings. It was a triangular piece and seemed to have two sets
of writing on it. To keep his mind from plunging into black despair
Timkin tried to picture again the ancient civilization of the first
moon.

But a slight huddled figure sobbed aloud at the controls as the
_Jetabout_ left the rings and aimed for Titan.

At the Titan docks two days later Homer Timkin was calm and resigned.
There was nothing he could do. No use to put in a complaint against
Huck Larsoe, to the police. As Larsoe had said, it was one man's word
against another's. With no witnesses the legal battle could only end
with Larsoe the winner.

Sighing, Timkin hired a rocket truck and piled the museum stuff aboard
and drove to the center of Titan City. Here the Saturn Archeological
Museum reared, stately and imposing on its marble pillars.

Timkin drove to the service entrance and rang the bell. An elderly man
answered and flashed a smile of greeting.

"Well, Timkin again," he said. "Back with another load of relics from
the rings? I take it you didn't hit any bonanza then, eh?"

"Well, I--" Timkin stopped. No need to go into his story, and broadcast
his shame and misery to the universe. "No, Professor Blick. No
bonanza. But I've got a load of stuff for you to look over for your
museum."

Professor Blick, adjusting his thick glasses, came out and looked over
each item as Timkin took it off the truck.

"Our prices are still standard, Timkin," he said. "Two SS-dollars for a
specimen of coal. Three for fossil bones. Five for bits of machinery.
And ten for the carved stones."

"Why," asked Timkin curiously, "do you pay more for the stones than
anything?"

"Because if they could speak they would tell us far more about the
ancient civilization of the first moon, than any of the other items. We
have a sizeable collection now. We can't translate the writing yet. But
some day we're going to find the Rosetta Stone that will give us the
clue and open up the whole vast story."

"Rosetta Stone?" Timkin was puzzled.

The professor went on conversationally.

"Yes. You see, back on earth many centuries ago, the archeologists
of that time also found carved writings--the ancient records of the
Egyptians. And they too were a riddle.

"But one day a stone was found with not only Egyptian heiroglyphics
on it but _another language_! The text on this stone had been written
in Egyptian and then copied in the other language. And that second
language--ancient Greek--was _known_! So this enabled all the Egyptian
writing to be translated and...."

The professor's voice stopped, with a queer gurgle. Timkin stared. He
had just handed him the triangular stone which had been among Larsoe's
"gifts."

"_Timkin!_" screeched the professor. "This is _it_! This stone has
_two_ sets of writing on it. One is the unknown script of the first
moon. And the other is--oh, thank the stars!--it's early Rhean, _which
is a language we know_!"

It was all rather confusing for Timkin after that. The professor bawled
at the top of his voice and more men came rushing out. They all fell
to talking as if the greatest event in the history of the universe had
taken place. Timkin hovered on the outskirts of the group, forgotten
for the time being.

But then all the men turned to him. They looked at him as if he were
some king or some awesome potentate from another star.

"And there, gentlemen!" said Professor Blick, waving at him, "is the
man who brought the stone back!"

Timkin was in an agony of embarrassment as one by one the archeologists
came up and shook his hand silently with reverent respect in their
eyes.

"Professor," pleaded Timkin when this ordeal was over. "I--I want
to get away. Just pay me for the stone, and let me go. If it's
so important to you, maybe you could up the price a little, eh?
Maybe--uh--a hundred dollars?"

Timkin was amazed at his own audacity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The professor looked at him queerly, almost pityingly, and said slowly,
"One hundred dollars? Timkin, you don't realize the value of this
stone. The museum will make you out a check for _one hundred thousand
SS-dollars_!"

Timkin stood stunned, unbelieving.

The professor smiled.

"Yes, that's what I said--one hundred thousand. If we could afford
it, we'd pay you ten times that. Actually, you see, the stone is
_priceless_. The check will be sent to you. You can go now, Timkin."

Timkin drove the rocket truck back, in a dream, and passed a red light.
The traffic cop wrote a ticket.

"That'll cost you twenty-five dollars, bud," he growled.

Timkin burst out laughing and kept laughing all the way back to the
garage. He was fined 25 dollars. It would have been an economic tragedy
before. Now it was a joke. He could pay a hundred fines like that and
still laugh.

The next day, when the check arrived at his room, Timkin knew it was
not a dream. The amount was 150,000 dollars. They had even upped the
price voluntarily.

Timkin went out, with the check in his pocket, and headed for the
_Spaceman's Nook_. He had one more piece of unfinished business to do.
He knew he would find Huck Larsoe there and saw him at a corner table.
Strangely he seemed depressed, not at all like a man who had just
brought in a fortune in gold.

"Hello, Huck!"

Larsoe looked up sourly as Timkin sat down cheerfully.

"Listen, punk, you got nothing on me," he growled.

"I know," said Timkin. "But why so glum? What did you get for
my--pardon me, _your_--gold bonanza when you cashed it in?"

Larsoe smashed his fist down on the table, spilling his drink.

"Don't talk to me about that blasted bonanza!" he roared. "You know
what it was? It was just plain rock with a film of rich gold ore over
it. A fake! A flop! I just got enough out of it to pay expenses and
that's all."

"Too bad," Timkin grinned, feeling his cup running over.

"Oh, don't go gloating," said Larsoe. "I still put one over on you. I
took the thing away from you, didn't I?"

"Sure," agreed Timkin. "But you gave me something back which was
worth--"

At this moment, Larsoe sat up, as something came over the tavern radio,
working through the hum. An announcer was saying....

"--biggest news of the day! The Saturn Museum has just announced the
find of a carved stone, from the rings, which will allow them to
translate all the hitherto unknown writings of the first moon! And in
honor of the man who brought it back from the rings, they have named
it--the _Timkin Stone_!"

Timkin was shocked himself. His name would reverberate down through
the ages now, attached to a stone as famed as the Rosetta Stone of
earth!

But the effect on Huck Larsoe was like that of a knife in his heart. He
turned slow, stunned eyes to his companion.

"Th-the Timkin Stone?" he mumbled. "What--"

Timkin drew the check out of his pocket and showed it to Larsoe.

"Yes, I brought it in. Look, they paid me one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars for it. And Huck--I hope you have a strong
heart--Huck, that stone was among the stuff _you_ gave me after
stealing my bonanza!"

"Then I made the find!" yelled Larsoe. "It's _me_ they should name the
stone after. And you've got to turn over that money to me, Timkin! It's
mine! I found the stone and...."

Timkin looked him straight in the eye and said quietly, "Any witnesses,
Huck?"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RING BONANZA ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
