The Project Gutenberg eBook of The swamp was upside down, by Murray
Leinster

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The swamp was upside down

Author: Murray Leinster

Release Date: August 18, 2022 [eBook #68783]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SWAMP WAS UPSIDE
DOWN ***





                       THE SWAMP WAS UPSIDE DOWN

                          BY MURRAY LEINSTER

                         Illustrated by Freas

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Astounding Science Fiction September 1956.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                                   I


Hardwick knew the Survey ship had turned end-for-end, because though
there was artificial gravity, it does not affect the semicircular
canals of the human ear. He knew he was turning head-over-heels,
even though his feet stayed firmly on the floor. It was not a normal
sensation, and he felt that queasy, instinctive tightening of the
muscles with which one reacts to the abnormal, whether in things seen
or felt.

But the reason for turning the ship end-for-end was obvious. It had
arrived very near its destination, and was killing its Lawlor-drive
momentum. Just as Hardwick was assured that the turning motion was
finished, young Barnes--the ship's lowest-ranking commissioned
officer--came into the wardroom and beamed at him kindly.

"The ship's not landing, sir," he said gently, like one explaining
something to somebody under ten years old. "Our orders are changed.
You're to go to ground by boat. This way, sir."

Hardwick shrugged. He was a Senior Officer of the Colonial Survey, and
this was a Survey ship, and it had been sent especially to get him
from his last and still unfinished job. It was a top-urgency matter.
This ship had had no other business for some months except to go after
and bring him to Sector Headquarters, down on Canna III which must be
somewhere near. But this young officer was patronizing him!

Hardwick rather regretfully recognized that he didn't know how to be
impressive. He was not a good salesman of his own importance. He didn't
even get the urgent respect due his rank--and when one thought about
it, it was amazing that he'd ever reached a high level in the Survey.

Now the young officer waited, brisk and kindly and blandly alert in
manner. Hardwick reflected wryly that he could pin young Barnes' ears
back easily enough. But he remembered when he'd been a junior Survey
ship's officer. Then he'd felt a serene condescension toward all people
of whatever rank who did not spend their lives in the cramped, skimped
quarters of a Survey patrol-ship. If this young Lieutenant Barnes were
fortunate, he'd always feel that way. Hardwick could not begrudge him
the cockiness which made the tedium and hardships of the Service seem
to him a privilege.

So he quite obediently followed Barnes through the wardroom door. He
ducked his head under a ventilation slot and sidled past a standpipe
with bristling air-valve handles. It almost closed the way. There was
the smell of oil and paint and ozone which all proper Survey ships
maintain in their working sections.

"Here, sir," said Barnes paternally. "This way."

He offered his arm for Hardwick to steady himself by. Hardwick ignored
it. He stepped over a complex of white-painted pipes. He arrived at an
almost clear way to a boat-blister.

"And your luggage, sir," added the young man reassuringly, "will follow
you down immediately, sir. With the mail."

Hardwick nodded. He moved toward the blister door. He practically
edged past constrictions due to new equipment. The Survey ship had been
designed a long time ago, and there were no funds for rebuilding when
improved devices came along. So any Survey ship was apt to be cluttered
up with afterthoughts in metal.

       *       *       *       *       *

A speaker from the wall said sharply:

"_Hear this! Hold fast! Gravity going off!_"

Hardwick caught at a nearby pipe, and snatched his hand away again--it
was hot--and caught on to another and then put his other hand below. He
applied a trifle of pressure. The young officer said kindly:

"Hold fast, sir. The ship's gravity is going off. If I may suggest--"

The gravity did go off. Hardwick grimaced. There'd been a time when he
was used to such matters. This time the sudden outward surge of his
breath caught him unprepared. His diaphragm contracted as the weight
of organs above it ceased to be. He choked for an instant. He was
irritated. He said evenly:

"I am not likely to go head-over-heels, lieutenant. I served four years
as a junior swot on a ship exactly like this!"

He did not float about. He held onto a pipe in two places, and he
applied expert pressure in a strictly professional manner, and his
feet remained firmly on the floor. He startled young Barnes by the
achievement, which only junior swots think only junior swots know
about.

Barnes said, abashed:

"Yes, sir." He held himself firm in the same fashion.

"I even know," said Hardwick crisply, "that the gravity had to be
cut off because we're approaching another ship on Lawlor-drive. Our
gravity-coils would blow if we got into her field with our drive off,
or if her field pressed ours inboard."

Young Barnes looked extremely uncomfortable. Hardwick felt sorry for
him. To be chewed--however delicately--for patronizing a senior officer
could not be pleasant. So Hardwick added:

"And I also remember that, when I was a junior swot I once tried to
tell a Sector Chief how to top off his suit-tanks. So don't let it
bother you!"

The young officer was embarrassed. But a Sector Chief was so high in
the table of Survey organization that one of his idle thoughts was
popularly supposed to be able to crack a junior officer's skull. If
Hardwick, as a young officer, had really tried to tell a Sector Chief
how to top his suit-tanks.... Why....

"Thank you, sir," said Barnes awkwardly. "I'll try not to be an ass
again, sir."

"I suspect," said Hardwick, "that you'll slip occasionally. I did! What
the devil's another ship doing out here and why aren't we landing?"

"I wouldn't know, sir," said the young officer respectfully. His manner
toward Hardwick was quite changed. "I do know the Skipper came in
expecting to land, sir, by the landing-grid, sir. He was told to stand
off. He's as much surprised as you are, sir."

The wall-speaker said crisply:

"_Hear this! Gravity returning! Gravity returning!_"

And weight came back. Hardwick was ready for it this time and took it
casually. He looked at the speaker and it said nothing more. He nodded
to the young man.

"I suppose I'd better get in the boat. No change in that arrangement,
anyhow!"

He crawled through the blister door and wormed his way into the
landing-boat--designed for a more modern ship, and excessively
inconvenient in such an outmoded launching-device. Barnes crawled in
after him.

"Excuse me, sir. I'm to take you down."

He dogged the blister door from the inside, closed the boatport and
dogged it, and flipped a switch.

"Ready for departure," he said into a microphone.

A dial on the instrument board flicked halfway to zero. It stopped
there. Seconds passed. A green light glowed. The young officer said:

"All tight!"

The needle darted a quarter-way farther over, and then began to descend
slowly. The blister was being pumped empty of air. Presently another
light glowed.

"Ready for launching," said the young officer briskly.

There were clankings. The blister-seal broke, and the two halves of
the boat cover drew back. There were stars. To Hardwick they were
unfamiliarly arranged, but he could have picked out Seton and the Donis
cluster in any case, and half a hundred more markers by taking thought
of the position of the planet Canna III, on which Colonial Survey
Sector Headquarters for this part of the galaxy were established.

The boat moved gently out of its place and the ship's gravity field
ended as abruptly as such fields do.

The Survey ship floated away, as seen from the vision ports of the
boat. It apparently increased its drive, because the boat swirled and
swayed as changing eddy-currents moved it. The ship grew small and
vanished. The boat hung in emptiness, turning slowly. The sun Canna
came into view. It was very large for a Sol-type sun, and its rim was
almost devoid of the prominences and jet streams of flaming gas that
older suns of the type display. But even out at the third orbit it
provided 0-1 climate--optimum: equivalent to Earth--for the planet
below.

That planet now came swinging into view as the ship's boat continued to
turn. It was blue. More than ninety per cent of its surface was water,
and much of the solid land was under the northern ice cap. It had been
chosen as Sector Headquarters because of its unsuitability for a large
population, which might resent the considerable land-area needed for
Survey storage and reserve facilities.

Hardwick regarded it thoughtfully. The boat was, of course, roughly
five planetary diameters out--the conventional distance to which a ship
approached any planet on its own drive. Hardwick could see the ice cap
very clearly, and blue sea beyond it and the twilight-line. There was
one cyclonic storm just dissipating toward the night-side, and the edge
of a similar cloud-system down toward the equator. Hardwick searched
for Headquarters. It was on an island at about forty-five degrees
latitude, which ought to be near the center of the planet's surface as
seen from where the ship's boat floated. But he could not make it out.
There was only the one island of any importance and it was not large.

Nothing happened. The boat's rockets remained silent. The young officer
sat quietly, looking at the instruments before him. He seemed to be
waiting for something to happen.

A needle kicked and stayed just off the pin. It was an external-field
indicator. Some field, somewhere, now included the space in which the
ship's boat floated.

"Hm-m-m," said Hardwick. "You are waiting for orders?"

"Yes, sir," said the young man. "I'm ordered not to land except under
ground instructions, sir. I don't know why."

Hardwick observed detachedly:

"One of the worst wiggings I ever got was in a boat like this. I was
waiting for orders and they didn't come. I acted very Service about
it: stiff upper lip and all that. But I was getting in serious trouble
when it occurred to me that it might be my fault I wasn't getting the
orders."

The young officer glanced quickly at an instrument he had previously
ignored. Then he said relievedly:

"Not this time, sir. The communicator's turned on, all right."

Hardwick said:

"Do you think they might be calling you without shifting from
ship-frequency? They were talking to the ship, you know."

"I'll try, sir."

The young man leaned forward and switched to ship-band adjustment of
the communicator. Different wave bands, naturally, were used between a
ship and shore, and a ship and its own boats. A booming carrier wave
came in instantly. The young officer hastily turned down the volume and
words became distinguishable.

"... _What the devil's the matter with you? Acknowledge!_"

The young officer gulped. Hardwick said mildly:

"Since he ranks you, just say 'Sorry, sir.'"

"S-sorry, sir," said Barnes into the microphone.

"_Sorry?_" snapped the voice from the ground. "_I've been calling for
five minutes! Your skipper will hear about this! I shall_--"

Hardwick pulled the microphone before him.

"My name is Hardwick," he observed, "I am waiting for instructions to
land. My pilot has been listening on boat-frequency, as was proper.
You appear to be calling us on an improper channel. Really--"

There was stricken silence. Then babbled apologies from the speaker.
Hardwick smiled faintly at young Barnes.

"It's quite all right. Let's forget it now. But will you give my pilot
his instructions?"

The voice said strainedly:

"_You're to be brought down by landing-grid, sir. Rocket landings have
been ruled non-permitted by the Sector Chief himself, sir. But we are
already landing one boat, sir. Senior Officer Werner is being brought
in now, sir. His boat is still two diameters out, sir, and it will take
us nearly an hour to get him down without extreme discomfort, sir._"

"Then we'll wait," said Hardwick. "Hm-m-m. Call us again before you
start hunting us with the landing-beam. My pilot has a rather promising
idea. And will you call us on the proper frequency then, please?"

The voice aground said unhappily:

"_Yes, sir. Certainly, sir._"

The carrier-wave hum stopped. Young Barnes said gratefully:

"Thank you, sir! Hell hath no fury like a ranking officer caught in a
blunder! He'd have twisted my tail for his mistake, sir, and it could
have been bad!" Then he paused. He said uneasily, "But ... beg pardon,
sir! I haven't any promising ideas. Not that I know of!"

"You have an hour to develop one," Hardwick told him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Internally, Hardwick was disturbed. There were few occasions on
which even one Senior Officer was called in to Sector Headquarters.
Interstellar distances being what they were, and thirty light-speeds
being practically the best available, Senior Officers necessarily
acted pretty much as independent authorities. To call one man in meant
all his other work had to go by the board for a matter of months. But
two--And Werner?

Werner was getting to ground first. If there were something serious
ashore, Werner would make a great point of arriving first, even if only
by hours. A keen sort of person in giving the right impression, he'd
risen in the Service faster than Hardwick. That other Lawlor field
would have been his ship getting out of the way.

The young officer at his elbow fidgeted.

"Beg pardon, sir. What sort of idea should I develop, sir? I'm not sure
I understand--"

"It's rather annoying to have to stay parked in free fall," said
Hardwick patiently. "And it's always a good practice to review annoying
situations and see if they can be bettered."

Barnes' forehead wrinkled.

"We could land much quicker on rockets, sir. And ... even when the
landing-grid reaches out for us, since we've no gravity-coils, they'll
have to handle us very cautiously or they'd break our necks!"

Hardwick nodded. Barnes was thinking straight enough, but it takes
young officers a long time to think of thinking straight. They have
to obey so many orders unquestioningly that they tend to stop doing
anything else. Yet at each rise in grade some slight trace of increased
capacity to think is required. In order to reach really high rank,
an officer has to be capable of thinking which simply isn't possible
unless he's kept in practice on the way up.

Young Barnes looked up, startled.

"Look here, sir!" he said, surprised. "If it takes them an hour to let
down Senior Officer Werner from two planetary diameters, it'll take
much longer to let us down from out here!"

"True," said Hardwick.

"And you don't want to spend three hours descending, sir, after waiting
an hour for him!"

"I don't," admitted Hardwick. He could have given orders, of course.
But if a junior officer were spurred to the practice of thinking, it
might mean that some day he'd be a better senior officer. And Hardwick
knew how desperately few men were really adequate for high authority.
Anything that could be done to increase the number--

Young Barnes blinked.

"But it doesn't matter to the landing-grid how far out we are!" he said
in an astonished voice. "They could lock on to us at ten diameters, or
at one! Once they lock the field-focus on us, when they move it they
move us!"

Hardwick nodded again.

"So ... so by the time they've got that other boat landed ... why ... I
can use rockets and get down to one diameter myself, sir! And they can
lock onto us there and let us down a few thousand miles only! So we can
get to ground half an hour after the other boat's down instead of four
hours from now."

"Just so," agreed Hardwick. "At a cost of a little thought and a little
fuel. You do have a promising idea after all, lieutenant. Suppose you
carry it out?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Young Barnes glanced at Hardwick's safety-strap. He threw over the
fuel-ready lever and conscientiously waited the conventional few
seconds for the first molecules of fuel to be catalyzed cold. Once
firing started, they'd be warmed to detonation-readiness in the last
few millimeters of the injection-gap.

"Firing, sir," he said respectfully.

There was the curious sound of a rocket blasting in emptiness, when
the sound is conveyed only by the rocket-tube's metal. There was the
smooth, pushing sensation of acceleration. The tiny ship's boat swung
and aimed down at the planet. Lieutenant Barnes leaned forward and
punched the ship's computer.

"I hope you'll excuse me, sir," he said awkwardly. "I should have
thought that out myself, sir, without prompting. But problems like
this don't turn up very often, sir. As a rule it's wisest to follow
precedents as if they were orders."

Hardwick said dryly:

"To be sure! But one reason for the existence of junior officers is the
fact that some day there will have to be new senior ones."

Barnes considered. Then he said surprisedly:

"I never thought of it that way, sir. Thank you."

He continued to punch the computer keys, frowning. Hardwick relaxed
in his seat, held there by the gentle acceleration and the belt.
He'd had nothing by which to judge the reason for his summoning to
Headquarters. He had very little now. But there was trouble of some
sort below. Two senior officers dragged from their own work. Werner,
now--Hardwick preferred not to estimate Werner. He disliked the man,
and would be biased. But he was able, though definitely on the make.
And there was himself. They'd been called to Headquarters where no ship
was to be landed by landing-grid, nor any rocket to come to ground. A
landing-grid could pluck a ship out of space ten planet-diameters out,
and draw it with gentle violence shoreward, and land it lightly as a
feather. A landing-grid could take the heaviest, loaded freighter and
stop it in orbit and bring it down at eight gravities. But the one
below wouldn't land even a tiny Survey ship! And a landing-boat was
forbidden to come down on its rockets!

Hardwick arranged those items in his mind. He knew the planet below,
of course. When he got his Senior rating he'd spent six months at
Headquarters learning procedures and practices proper to his increased
authority. There was one inhabitable island, two hundred miles long
and possibly forty wide. There was no other usable ground outside the
Arctic.

The one occupied island had gigantic sheer cliffs on its windward side,
where a great slab of bedrock had split along some submarine fault
and tilted upward above the surface. Those cliffs were four thousand
feet high, but from them the island sloped very, very gently and very
gradually until its leeward shore slipped under the restless sea.

Sector Headquarters had been placed here because it seemed that
civilians would not want to colonize so limited a world. But there were
civilians, because there was Headquarters. And now every inch of ground
was cultivated and there was irrigation and intensive farming and some
hydroponic establishments. But Sector Headquarters included a vast
reserve area on which a space-fleet might be marshaled in case of need.
The overcrowded civilians were bitter because of the great uncultivated
area the Survey needed for storage and possible emergency use. Even
when Hardwick was here, years back, there was bitterness because the
Survey crowded the civilian economy which had been based on it.

Hardwick considered all these items. He came to an uncomfortable
conclusion. Presently he looked up. The planet loomed larger. Much
larger.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I think you'd better lose all planetward velocity before we hook on,"
he observed. "The landing-grid crew might have trouble focusing on us
so close if we're moving."

"Yes, sir," said the young officer. "I will, sir."

"There's some sort of merry hell below," said Hardwick wryly. "It
looks bad that they won't let a ship come down by grid. It looks worse
that they won't let this one land on its rockets." He paused. "I doubt
they'll risk lifting us off again."

Young Barnes finished his computations. He looked satisfied. He glanced
at the now-gigantic planet below. He deftly adjusted the course of the
tiny boat. Then he jerked his head around.

"Excuse me, sir. Did you say we mightn't be able to lift off again?"

"I could almost predict that we won't," said Hardwick.

"Would you ... could you say why, sir?"

"They don't want landings. The trouble is here. If they don't want
landings, they won't want launchings. Werner and I were sent for, so
presumably we're needed. But apparently there's uneasiness about even
our landing. Surely they won't send us off again. I suspect--"

The loud-speaker said tinnily:

"_Calling boat from landing-grid! Calling boat from landing-grid!_"

"Come in," said Barnes. But he looked uneasily at Hardwick.

"_Correct your course!_" commanded the voice sharply. "_You are not
to land on rockets under any circumstances! This is an order from the
Sector Chief himself! Stand off! We will be ready to lock on and land
you gently in about fifteen minutes. But meanwhile stand off!_"

"Yes, sir," said young Barnes.

Hardwick reached over and took the microphone.

"Hardwick speaking," he said. "I'd like information. What's the trouble
down there that we can't use our rockets?"

"_Rockets are noisy, sir. Even boat-rockets. We have orders to prevent
all physical vibration possible, sir. But I am ordered not to give
details on a transmitter, sir._"

"I'll sign off," said Hardwick, dryly.

He pushed the microphone away. He deplored his own lack of
aggressiveness. Werner, now, would have pulled his rank and insisted on
being informed. But Hardwick couldn't help believing that there was a
reason for orders that over-ruled his own.

The young officer swung the rocket end-for-end. The sensation of
pressure against the back of Hardwick's seat increased.

Minutes later the speaker said:

"_Grid to boat. Prepare for lock-on._"

"Ready, sir," said Barnes.

The small boat shuddered and leaped crazily. It spun. It oscillated
violently through seconds-long arcs in emptiness. Very, very gradually,
the oscillations died. There was a momentary sensation of the faint
tugging of planetary weight, which is somehow subtly different from the
feel of artificial gravity. Then the cosmos turned upside down as the
boat was drawn very swiftly toward the watery planet below it.

Some minutes later, young Barnes spoke apologetically:

"Beg pardon, sir," he said diffidently. "I must be stupid, sir, but
I can't imagine any reason why vibrations or noise should make any
difference on a planet. How could it do harm?"

"This is an ocean-planet," said Hardwick. "It might make people drown."

The young officer flushed. He turned his head away. And Hardwick
reflected ruefully that the young were always sensitive. But he did not
speak again. When they landed in the vast, spidery landing-grid--a vast
metal grid-work a full half-mile high--Barnes would find out whether he
was right or not.

He did. And Hardwick was right. The people on Canna III were anxious to
avoid vibrations because they were afraid of drowning.

Their fears seemed to be rather well-founded.




                                  II


Three hours after landing, Hardwick moved gingerly over grayish muddy
rock, with a four-thousand-foot sheer drop some twenty yards away. The
ragged edge of a cliff fell straight down for the better part of a
mile. Far below, the sea rippled gently. Hardwick saw a long, long line
of boats moving slowly out to sea. They towed something between them
which reached from boat to boat in exaggerated catenary curves. The
boats moved in line abreast straight out from the cliffs, towing this
floating, curved thing between them.

Hardwick regarded them for a moment and then inspected the grayish
mud underfoot. He lifted his eyes to the inland side of this peculiar
stretch of mountainside muddiness. There was a mast on the rock not far
away. It held up what looked like a vision-camera.

Young Barnes said:

"Excuse me, sir. What are those boats doing?"

"They're towing an oil-slick out to sea," said Hardwick absently, "by
towing a floating line of some sort between them. There isn't enough
oil to maintain the slick, and it's blown landward. So they tow it out
to sea again. It holds down the seas. Every time, of course, they lose
some of it."

"But--"

"There are trade winds," said Hardwick, not looking to seaward at
all. "They always blow in the same direction, nearly. They blow
three-quarters of the way around the planet, and they build up seas as
they blow. Normally, the swells that pound against this cliff, here,
will be a hundred feet and more from crest to crest. They'll throw
spray ten times that high, of course, and once when I was here before,
spray came over the cliff-top. The impacts of the waves are--heavy. In
a storm, if you put your ear to the ground on the leeward shore, you
can hear the waves smash against these cliffs. It's vibration."

Barnes looked uneasily at the cliff's edge and the line of boats
pushing sturdily over an ocean whose waves seemed less than ripples
from nearly a mile above them. But the line of boats was incredibly
long. It was twenty miles in length at the least, and between each two
boats there was the long curved line of something being towed on the
surface.

"The ... slick holds down the waves," Barnes guessed. "It ... works
best in deep water, I believe. The ancients knew it. Oil on the
waters." He considered. "Working hard to prevent vibrations! Are they
really so dangerous, sir?"

Hardwick nodded inland. And, at a quarter-mile from the edge of the
cliff there was a peculiar, broken, riven rampart of soil. It might
have been forty feet high, once. Now it was shattered and cracked. It
had the quite incredible look of having been pulled away from where
Hardwick stood, and of having partly disintegrated as it was withdrawn.
There were vertical breaks in its edges. There were broken-off masses
left behind. At one place a clump of perhaps a quarter-acre had not
followed the rest, and trees leaned drunkenly from its top, and at the
edge had fallen outward. And all along the top of the stone cliff for
as far as the eye could see there was this singular retreat of soil and
vegetation from the cliff's edge.

Hardwick stooped and picked up a bit of the mud underfoot. He rubbed it
between his fingers. It yielded like modeling clay. He dipped a finger
into a gray, greasy-seeming puddle. He looked at the thick liquid on
his finger and then rubbed it against his other palm. Young Barnes
duplicated this last action.

"It ... feels soapy, sir!" he said blankly. "Like ... wet soap!"

"Yes," said Hardwick. "That's the first problem here."

He turned to a ground-service Survey private. He jerked his head along
the coast line.

"How much have other places slipped?"

"Anywhere from this much, sir," said the private, "to two miles and
upward. There's one place where it's moving at a regular rate. Four
inches an hour, sir. It was three-and-a-half yesterday."

Hardwick nodded.

"Hm-m-m. We'll go back to Headquarters. Nasty business!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He plodded over the extraordinarily messy footing toward the vehicle
which had brought him here. It was not an ordinary ground-car. Instead
of tires or caterwheels, it rolled upon flaccid, partly-inflated
five-foot rollers. They would be completely unaffected by roughness or
slipperiness of terrain, and if the vehicle fell overboard it would
float. But it was thickly coated with the gray mud of this cliff-top.

As he moved along, Hardwick was able to see the pattern of the rock
underneath the mud. It was curiously contorted, like something that had
curdled rather than cooled. And, as a matter of fact, it was believed
to have solidified slowly under water at such monstrous pressure
that even molten rock could not make it burst into steam. But it was
above-water now.

Hardwick climbed into the vehicle, and Barnes followed him. The
bolster-truck turned. It moved toward the broken barrier of earth.
Its five-foot flabby rollers seemed rather to flow over than to
surmount obstacles. Great lumps of drier dirt dented them and did not
disintegrate. There were no stones.

Hardwick frowned to himself. The bolster-truck more or less flowed up
the crumbling, inexplicably drawing-back mass of soil. Atop it, things
looked almost normal. Almost. There was a highway leading away from the
cliff. At first glance it seemed perfect. But it was cracked down the
middle for a hundred yards, and then the crack meandered off to the
side and was gone. There was a great tree, which leaned drunkenly. A
mile along the roadway its surface buckled as if something had pressed
irresistibly upward from below. The truck rolled over the break.

It was notable that the motion of the truck was utterly smooth. It
made no vibration at all. But even so it slowed before it moved through
a place where houses--dwellings and a shop or two--clustered closely
together on each side of the road.

There were people in and about the houses, but they were doing nothing
at all. Some of them stared hostilely at the Survey truck. Some
others deliberately turned their backs to it. There were vehicles
out of shelter and ready to be used, but none was moving. All--very
oddly--were pointed in the direction from which the bolster-truck had
come.

The truck went on. Presently the extraordinary flatness of the
landscape became apparent. It was possible to see a seemingly
illimitable distance. The ocean forty miles away showed as a thread
of blue beneath the horizon. The island was an almost perfectly plane
surface. But the windward side was tilted up to a height of four
thousand feet above the sea, and the downwind side slipped gently
beneath the waves. There was no hill visible anywhere. No mountains. No
valleys save the extremely minor gullies worn by rain. Even they had
been filled in, or dammed, and tied in to irrigation systems.

There was a place where there was a row of trees along such a
water-course. Half the row was fallen, and a part of the rest was
tilted. The remainder stood upright and firm. All the vegetation was
perfectly familiar. Most colonies have some vegetation, at least,
directly descended from the mother planet Earth. But this island on
Canna III had been above-water perhaps no more than three or four
thousand years. There had been no time for local vegetation to develop.
When the Survey took it over, there was only tidal seaweed, only one
variety of which had been able to extend itself in web-like fashion
over the soil above water. Terrestrial plants had wiped it out, and
everything was green, and everything was human-introduced.

But there was something wrong with the ground. At this place the top of
the soil bulged, and tall corn-plants grew extravagantly in different
directions. There, there was a narrow, lipless gap in the ground's
surface. An irrigation-ditch poured water into it. It was not filled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Barnes said distressedly:

"Excuse me, sir, but how the devil did this happen?"

"There's been irrigation," said Hardwick patiently. "The soil here was
all ocean-bottom, once--it used to be what is called globigerinous
ooze. There's no sand. There are no stones. There's only bedrock and
formerly abyssal mud. And--some of it underneath is no longer former.
It's globigerinous ooze again."

He waved his hand at the landscape. It had been remarkably tidy, once.
Every square foot of ground had been cultivated. The highways were of
limited width, and the houses were neat and trim. It was, perhaps, the
most completely civilized landscape in the galaxy. But Hardwick added:

"You said the stuff felt like soap. In a way it's acting like soap. It
lies on slightly slanting, effectively smooth rock, like a soap-cake on
a slightly slanting sheet of metal. And that's the trouble. So long as
a cake of soap is dry on the bottom it doesn't move. Even if you pour
water on top, like rain, the top will wet, and the water will flow off,
but the bottom won't wet until all the soap is dissolved away. While
that was the process here, everything was all right. But they've been
irrigating."

They passed a row of neat cottages facing the road. One had collapsed
completely. The others looked absolutely normal. The bolster-truck went
on.

Hardwick said, frowning:

"They wanted the water to go into the soil. So they arranged it. A
little of that did no harm. Plants growing dried it out again. One tree
evaporates thousands of gallons a day in a good trade wind. There were
some landslides in the early days, especially when storm-swells pounded
the cliffs, but on the whole the ground was more firmly anchored when
first cultivated than it had been before the colonists came."

"But--irrigation? The sea's not fresh, is it?"

"Water-freshening plants," said Hardwick dryly. "Ion-exchange systems.
They installed them and had all the fresh water they could wish for.
And they wished for a lot. They deep-plowed, so the water would sink
in. They dammed the water-courses--and it sank in. What they did
amounted to something like boring holes in the cake of soap I used for
an illustration just now. Water went right down to the bottom. What
would happen then?"

Barnes said:

"Why ... the bottom would wet ... and slide! As if it were greased!"

"Not greased," corrected Hardwick. "Soaped. Soap is viscous. That
is different--and a lucky difference! But the least vibration would
encourage movement. And it does. It has. So the population is now
walking on eggs. Worse, it's walking on the equivalent of a cake of
soap which is getting wetter and wetter on the bottom. It's already
sliding as a viscous substance does--reluctantly. But in spite of the
oil-slick they're trying to keep in place upwind there's still some
battering from the sea. There are still some vibrations in the bedrock.
And so there's a slow, and gentle, and gradual sliding."

"And they figure," said Barnes abruptly, "that locking onto a ship
with the landing-grid might be like an earthquake." He stopped. "An
earthquake, now--"

"Not much vulcanism on this planet," Hardwick told him. "But of course
there are tectonic quakes occasionally. They made this island."

Barnes said uneasily:

"I don't think, sir, that I'd sleep well if I lived here."

"You are living here for the moment. But at your age I think you'll
sleep."

The bolster-truck turned, following the highway. The road was very
even, and the motion of the truck along it was infinitely smooth. Its
lack of vibration explained why it was permitted to move when all
other vehicles were stopped. But Hardwick reflected uneasily that
this did not account for the orders of the Sector Chief forbidding
the rocket-landing of a ship's boat. It was true enough that the
living-surface of the island rested upon slanting stone, and that if
the bottom were wet enough it could slide off into the sea. It already
had moved. At least one place was moving at four inches per hour. But
that was viscous flow. It would be enhanced by vibration, and assuredly
the hammering of seas upon the windward cliff should be lessened by any
possible means.

But it did not mean that the sound of a rocket-landing would be
disastrous, nor that the straining of a landing-grid as it stopped a
space-ship in orbit and drew it to ground should produce a landslide.
There was something else--though the situation for the island's
civilian population was assuredly serious enough. If any really
massive movement of the ground did begin, viscous or any other; if any
considerable part of the island's surface did begin to move--all of it
would go. And the population would go with it. If there were survivors,
they could be numbered in dozens.

The tall tamped-earth wall of the Headquarters reserve area loomed
ahead. Sector Headquarters had been established here when there were
no other inhabitants. Seeds had been broadcast and trees planted while
the survey buildings were under construction. Headquarters, in fact,
had been built upon an uninhabited planet. But colonists followed in
the wake of Survey personnel. Wives and children, and then storekeepers
and agriculturists, and presently civilian technicians and ultimately
even politicians arrived as the non-Service population grew. Now Sector
Headquarters was resented because it occupied one fourth of the island.
It kept too much of the planet's useful surface out of civilian use.
And the island was now desperately overcrowded.

But it seemed also to be doomed.

As the bolster-truck moved silently toward Headquarters, a hundred-yard
section of the wall collapsed. There was an upsurging of dust. There
was a rumbling of falling, hardened wall. The truck's driver turned
white. A civilian beside the road faced the wall and wrung his
hands, and stood waiting to feel the ground under his feet begin to
sweep smoothly toward the here-distant sea. A post held up a traffic
signal some twenty yards from the gate. It leaned slowly. At a
forty-five-degree tilt it checked and hung stationary. Fifty yards from
the gate, a new crack appeared across the road.

But nothing more happened. Nothing. Yet one could not be sure that some
critical point had not been passed, so that from now on there would be
a gradual rise in the creeping of the soil toward the ocean.

Barnes caught his breath.

"That--makes one feel queer," he said unsteadily. "A ... shock like
that wall falling could start everything off!"

Hardwick said nothing at all. It had occurred to him that there was
no irrigation of the Survey area. He frowned very thoughtfully--even
worriedly, as the truck went inside the Headquarters gate and
rolled smoothly on over a winding road through definitely parklike
surroundings.

       *       *       *       *       *

It stopped before the building which was the Sector Chief's own
headquarters in Headquarters. A large brown dog dozed peacefully on the
plastic-tiled landing at the top of half a dozen steps. When Hardwick
got out of the truck the dog got up with a leisurely air. When Hardwick
ascended the steps, with Barnes following him, the dog came forward
with a sort of stately courtesy to do the honors. Hardwick said:

"Nice dog, that."

He went inside. The dog sedately followed. The interior of the building
was singularly empty. There was a sort of resonant silence until
somewhere a telewriter began to click.

"Come along," said Hardwick. "The Sector Chief's office is over this
way."

Young Barnes followed uncomfortably.

"It seems odd there's no one around. No secretaries, no sentries,
nobody at all."

"Why should there be?" asked Hardwick in surprise. "The guards at the
gate keep civilians out. And nobody in the Service will bother the
Chief without reason. At least, not more than once!"

But across a glistening, empty floor there ran an ominous crack.

They went down a corridor. Voices sounded, and Hardwick tracked
them, with the paws of the dog clicking on the floor behind him. He
led the way into a spacious, comfortably nondescript room with high
windows--doors, really--that opened on green lawn outside. The Sector
Chief, Sandringham, leaned placidly back in a chair, smoking. Werner,
the other summoned Senior Officer, sat bolt upright in a chair facing
him. Sandringham waved a hand cordially to Hardwick.

"Back so soon? You're ahead of schedule on all counts! Here's Werner,
back from looking at the fuel-store situation."

Hardwick suddenly looked as if he'd been jolted. But he nodded, and
Werner tried to smile and failed. He was completely white.

"My pilot from the ship, who's kept aground," said Hardwick.
"Lieutenant Barnes. Very promising young officer. Cut my landing-time
by hours. Lieutenant, this is Sector Chief Sandringham and Mr. Werner."

"Have a seat, Hardwick," grunted the Chief. "You, too, lieutenant. How
does it look up on the cliff, Hardwick?"

"I suspect you know as well as I do," said Hardwick. "I think I saw a
vision-camera planted up there."

"True enough. But there's nothing like on-the-spot inspection. Now
you're back, how does it look to you?"

"Inadequate," said Hardwick with some dryness. "Inadequate to explain
some things I've noticed. But it's a very bad situation. Its degree of
badness depends on the viscosity of the mud at bedrock all over the
island. The left-behind mud's like pea soup. It looks really bad! But
what's the viscosity at bedrock with soil pressing down--and I hope
drier soil than at the bottom?"

Sandringham grunted.

"Good question. I sent for you, Hardwick, when it began to look bad,
before the ground really started sliding. When I thought it might begin
any time. The viscosity averages pretty closely at three times ten to
the sixth. Which still gives us some leeway. But not enough."

"Not nearly enough!" said Hardwick impatiently. "Irrigation should have
been stopped a long while back!"

The Sector Chief grimaced.

"I've no authority over civilians. They've their own planetary
government. And do you remember?" He quoted: "'Civilian establishments
and governments may be advised by Colonial Survey officials, and may
make requests of them, but in each case such advice or request is to be
considered on its own merits only, and in no case can it be the subject
of a _quid-pro-quo_ agreement.'" He added grimly: "That means you
can't threaten. It's been thrown at my head every time I've asked them
to cut down their irrigation in the past fifteen years! I advised them
not to irrigate at all, and they couldn't see it. It would increase the
food-supply, and they needed more food. So they went ahead. They built
two new sea-water freshening plants only last year!"

Werner licked his lips. He said in a voice that was higher-pitched than
Hardwick remembered:

"What's happening serves them right! It serves them right!"

Hardwick waited.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Now," said Sandringham, "they are demanding to be let into Sector
Headquarters for safety. They say we haven't irrigated, so the ground
we occupy isn't going to slide. They demand that we take them all in
here to sit on their rumps until the rest of the island slides into the
sea or doesn't. If it doesn't, they want to wait here until the soil
becomes stable again because they've quit irrigating."

"It'd serve them right if we let them in!" cried Werner in shrill
anger. "It's their fault that they're in this fix!"

Sandringham waved his hand.

"Administering abstract justice isn't my job. I imagine it's handled in
more competent quarters. I have only to meet the objective situation.
Which"--he paused--"is plenty! Hardwick, you've handled swamp-planet
situations. What can be done to stop the sliding of the island's soil
before it all goes overboard?"

"Not much, offhand," said Hardwick. "Give me time and I'll manage
something. But a really bad storm, with high seas and plenty of rain,
might wipe out the whole civilian colony. That viscosity figure is
close to hopeless--if not quite."

The Sector Chief looked impassive.

"How much time does he have, Werner?"

"None!" said Werner shrilly. "The only possible thing is to try to move
as many people as possible to the solid ground in the Arctic! The boats
can be crowded--the situation demands it! And if the two space-craft in
orbit are sent to collect a fleet, and as many people as possible are
moved at once--there may be some survivors!"

Hardwick spread out his hands.

"I'm wondering," he observed, "what the really serious problem is.
There's more than sliding soil the matter! Else you would ... I'm sure
Lieutenant Barnes has thought of this ... let the civilian population
into Headquarters to sit on its rump and wait for better times."

Sandringham glanced at young Barnes, who flushed hotly at being noticed.

"I'm sure you have good reasons, sir," he said embarrassedly.

"I have several," said the Sector Chief dryly. "For one thing, so long
as we refuse to let them in, they're reassured. They can't imagine we'd
let them down. But if we invited them in they'd panic and fight to get
in first. There'd be a full-scale slaughter right there! They'd be sure
disaster was only minutes off. Which it would be!"

He paused and glanced from one to the other of the senior officers.

"When I sent for you," he said wryly, "I meant for you, Hardwick, to
take care of the possible sliding. I meant for Werner, here, to do the
public-relations job of scaring the civilians just enough to make them
let it be done. It's not so simple, now!"

He drew a deep breath.

"It's pure chance that there is a Sector Headquarters. Or else it's
Providence. We'll find that out later! But ten days ago it was
discovered that an instrument had gone wrong over in the ship-fuel
storage area. It didn't register when a tank leaked. And--a tank did
leak. You know ship-fuel's harmless when it's refrigerated. You know
what it's like when it's not. Dissolved in soil-moisture, it's not only
catalyzed to explosive condition, but it's a hell of a corrosive, and
it's eaten holes in some other tanks--and can you imagine trying to do
anything about that?"

Hardwick felt a sensation of incredulous shock. Werner wrung his hands.

"If I could only find the man who made that faulty tank!" he said
thickly. "He's killed all of us! All! Unless we get to solid ground in
the Arctic!"

The Sector Chief said calmly:

"That's why I won't let them in, Hardwick. Our storage tanks go down
to bedrock. The leaked fuel--warmed up, now--is seeping along bedrock
and eating at other tanks, besides being absorbed generally by the soil
and dissolving in the ground-water. We've pulled all personnel out of
all the area it could have seeped down to."

Hardwick felt slightly cold at the back of his neck.

"I suspect," he said wryly, "that they came out on tiptoe, holding
their breaths, and that they were careful not to drop anything or
scrape their chairs when they got up to leave. I would have! Anything,
of course, could set it off. But it is bound to go anyhow! Of course!
Now I see why we couldn't make a rocket-landing!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The chilly feeling seemed to spread as he realized more fully. When
ship-fuel is refrigerated during its manufacture, it is about as safe
a substance as can be imagined--so long as it is kept refrigerated.
It is an energy-chemical compound, of atoms bound together with
forced-valence linkages. But enormous amounts of energy are required to
force valences upon reluctant atoms.

When ship-fuel warms up, or is catalyzed, it goes on one step beyond
the process of its manufacture. It goes on to the modification the
refrigeration prevented. It changes its molecular configuration. What
was stable because it was cold becomes something which is hysterically
unstable because of its structure. The touch of a feather can
detonate it. A shout can set it off.

It is, indeed, burned only molecule by molecule in a ship's engines,
being catalyzed to the unstable state while cold at the very spot where
it is to detonate. And since the energy yielded by detonation is that
of the forced bonds ... why ... the energy-content of ship-fuel is much
greater than a merely chemical compound can contain. Ship-fuel contains
a measurable fraction of the power of atomic explosive. But it is much
more practical for use on board ship.

The point now was, of course, that leaked into the ground and
warmed ... why ... practically any vibratory motion will detonate it.
Even dissolved, it can detonate because it is not a chemical but an
energy-release action.

"A good, drumming, heavy rain," said Sandringham very calmly indeed,
"which falls on this end of the island, will undoubtedly set off some
scores of tons of leaked ship-fuel. And that ought to scatter and
catalyze and detonate the rest. The explosion should be equivalent
to at least a megaton fusion bomb." He paused, and added with irony,
"Pretty situation, isn't it? If the civilians hadn't irrigated, we
could evacuate Headquarters and let it blow--as it will anyhow. If the
fuel hadn't leaked, we could let in the civilians until the island's
soil decides what it's going to do. Either would be a nasty situation,
but the combination--"

Werner said shrilly:

"Evacuation to the Arctic is the only possible answer! Some people can
be saved! Some! I'll take a boat and equipment and go on ahead and get
some sort of refuge ready."

There was dead silence. The brown dog, who had followed Hardwick
from the outer terrace, now yawned loudly. Hardwick reached over and
absent-mindedly scratched his ears. Young Barnes swallowed.

"Beg pardon, sir," he said awkwardly. "But what's the weather forecast?"

"Continued fair," said Sandringham pleasantly. "That's why I had
Hardwick and Werner come down. Three heads are better than one. I've
gambled their lives on their brains."

Hardwick continued thoughtfully to scratch the brown dog's ears. Werner
licked his lips. Young Barnes looked from one to another of them. Then
he looked back at the Sector Chief.

"Sir," he said awkwardly. "I ... I think the odds are pretty good. Mr.
Hardwick, sir--He'll manage!"

Then he flushed hotly at his own presumption in saying something
consoling to a Sector Chief. It was comparable to telling him how to
top off his vacuum-suit tanks.

But the Sector Chief nodded in grave approval and turned to Hardwick to
hear what he had to say.




                                  III


The leeward side of the island went very gently into the water. From
a boat offshore--say, a couple of miles out--the shoreline looked low
and flat and peaceful. There were houses in view, and there were boats
afloat. But they were much smaller than those that had been towing a
twenty-mile-long oil-slick out to sea. These boats did not ply back
and forth. Most of them seemed anchored. On some of them there was
activity. Men went overboard, without splashing, and things came up
from the ocean bottom and were dumped inside their hulls, and then
baskets went back down into the water. At long intervals--quite long
intervals--men emerged from underwater and sat on the sides of the
boats and smoked with an effect of leisure.

There was sunshine, and the land was green, and a seeming of
vast tranquillity hung over the whole seascape. But the small
Survey-personnel recreation-boat moved in toward the shore, and the
look of things changed. At a mile, a mass of green that had seemed to
be trees growing down to the water's edge became a thicket of tumbled
trunks and overset branches where a tree-thicket had collapsed. At half
a mile the water was opaque. There were things floating in it--the
roof of a house; the leaves of an ornamental shrub, with nearby its
roots showing at the surface, washed clean. A child's toy bobbed past
the boat. It looked horribly pathetic. There were the exotic planes
and angles of three wooden steps, floating in the ripples of the great
ocean.

"Ignoring the imminent explosion of the fuel store," said Hardwick
dryly, "we need to find out something about what has to be done to the
soil to stop its creeping. I hope you remembered, lieutenant, to ask a
great many useless questions."

"Yes, sir," said Barnes. "I tried to, sir. I asked everything I could
think of."

"Those boats yonder?"

Hardwick indicated a boat from which something like a wire basket
splashed into the water as he gestured.

"A garden boat, sir," said Barnes. "On this side of the island the sea
bottom slopes so gradually, sir, that there are sea gardens on the
bottom. Shellfish from Earth do not thrive, sir, but there are edible
sea plants. The gardeners cultivate them as on land, sir."

Hardwick reached overside and carefully took his twentieth sample of
the sea water. He squinted, and estimated the distance to shore.

"I shall try to imagine someone wearing a diving mask and using a hoe,"
he said dryly. "What's the depth here?"

"We're half a mile out, sir," said Barnes promptly. "It should be about
sixty feet, sir. The bottom seems to have about a three per cent grade,
sir. That's the angle of repose of the mud. There's no sand to make a
steeper slope possible."

"Three per cent's not bad!"

Hardwick looked pleased. He picked up one of his earlier samples and
tilted it, checking the angle at which the sediment came to rest. The
bottom mud, here, was essentially the same as the soil of the land. But
the soil of the island was infinitely finely-divided. In fresh water it
floated practically like a colloid. In sea water, obviously, it sank
because of the salinity which made suspension difficult.

"You see the point, eh?" he asked. When Barnes shook his head, Hardwick
explained, "Probably for my sins I've had a good deal to do with swamp
planets. The mud of a salt swamp is quite different from a fresh-water
swamp. The essential trouble with the people ashore is that by their
irrigation they've contrived an island-wide swamp which happens to be
upside down--the mud at the bottom. So the question is, can it acquire
the properties of a salt swamp instead of a fresh-water swamp without
killing all the vegetation on the surface? That's why I'm after these
samples. As we go inshore the water should be fresher--on a shallowing
shore like this with drainage in this direction."

He gestured to the Survey private at the stern of the boat.

"Closer in, please."

Barnes said:

"Sir, motorboats are forbidden inshore. The vibrations."

Hardwick shrugged.

"We will obey the rule. I've probably samples enough. How far out do
the mudflats run--at the surface?"

"About two hundred yards at the surface, sir. The mud's about the
consistency of thick cream. You can see where the ripples stop, sir."

Hardwick stared. He turned his eyes away.

"Er ... sir," said Barnes unhappily. "May I ask, sir--"

Hardwick said dryly:

"You may. But the answer's pure theory. This information will do no
good at all unless all the rest of the problem we face is solved. But
solving the rest of the problem will do no good if this part remains
unsolved. You see?"

"Yes, sir. But ... the others seem more ... urgent, sir."

Hardwick shrugged.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a shout from a nearby boat. Men were pointing ashore.
Hardwick jerked his eyes to the shoreline.

A section of seemingly solid ground moved slowly toward the water. Its
forefront seemed to disintegrate, and a singularly slow-moving swell
moved out over the rippleless border of the sea, where mudbanks like
thick cream reached the surface.

The moving mass was a good half-mile in width. Its outer edge dissolved
in the sea, and the top tilted, and green vegetation leaned downwind
and very deliberately subsided into the water. It was remarkably like
the way an ingot of non-ferrous metal slides into the pool made by its
own melting.

But the aftermath was somehow horrifying. When the tumbled soil was
all dissolved--and the grass undulated like a floating meadow on the
water--there remained a jagged shallow gap in the land-bank. There were
irregularities: vertical striations and unevennesses in the exposed,
broken soil.

Hardwick snatched up glasses and put them to his eyes. The shore seemed
to leap toward him. He saw the harsh outlines of the temporary cliff
go soft. The bottom ceased to look like soil. It glistened. It moved
outward in masses which grew rounder as they swelled. They flowed after
the now-vanished fallen stuff, into the water. The topsoil was suddenly
undercut. The wetter material under it flowed away, leaving a ledge
which bore carefully tended flowering shrubs--Hardwick could see specks
of color which were their blossoms--and a brightly-colored, small trim
house in which some family had lived.

The flow-away of the deeper soil made a greater, more cavernous hollow
beneath the surface. It began to collapse. The house teetered. It fell.
It smashed. More soil dropped down, and more, and more.

Presently there was a depression, a sort of valley leading inland away
from the sea, in what had been a rampart of green at the water's edge.
It was still green, but through the glasses Hardwick could see that
trees had fallen, and a white-painted fence was splintered. And there
was still movement.

The movement slowed and slowed, but it was not possible to say when
it stopped. In reality, it did not stop. The island's soil was still
flowing into the ocean.

Barnes drew a deep breath.

"I ... thought that was it, sir," he said shakily. "I mean ... that the
whole island would start sliding."

"The ground's a bit more water-soaked down here," Hardwick said
briefly. "Inland the bottom-soil's not nearly as fluid as here. But I'd
hate to have a really heavy rainfall right now!"

Barnes' mind jerked back to the Sector Chief's office.

"The drumming would set off the ship-fuel?"

"Among other things," said Hardwick. "Yes." Then he said abruptly: "How
good are you at precision measurements? I've messed around on swamp
planets. I know a bit too much about what I ought to find, which is not
good for accuracy. Can you take these bottles and measure the rate of
sedimentation and plot it against salinity?"

"Y-yes, sir. I'll try, sir."

"If we had soil-coagulants enough," said Hardwick vexedly, "we could
handle that upside-down swamp the civilians have so carefully made,
here. But we haven't got it! But the freshened sea water they've been
irrigating with is practically mineral-free! I want to know how much
mineral content in the water would keep the swamp-mud from acting like
wet soap. It's entirely possible that we'd have to make the soil too
salty to grow anything, in order to anchor it. But I want to know!"

Barnes said uncomfortably:

"Wouldn't you, sir ... wouldn't you have to put the minerals in
irrigation-water to get them down to the ... the swamp?"

Hardwick grinned, very surprisingly.

"You've got promise, Barnes! Yes. I would. And it would increase the
rate of slide before it stopped it. Which could be another problem. But
it was good work to think of it! When we get back to Headquarters, you
commandeer a laboratory and make those measurements for me."

"Yes, sir," said Barnes.

"We'll start back now," said Hardwick.

       *       *       *       *       *

The recreation-boat obediently turned. It went out to sea until the
water flowing past its hull was crystal-clear. And Hardwick seemed
to relax. On the way they passed more small boats. Many of them were
gardeners' boats, from which men dived with diving masks to tend or
harvest the cultivated garden-patches not too far down. But many were
pleasure boats, from double-hulled sailing craft intended purely for
sport, to sturdy though small cabin cruisers which could venture
far out to sea, or even around to the windward of the island for
sport-fishing. All the pleasure craft were crowded--there were usually
some children--and it was noticeable that on each one there were always
some faces turned toward the shore.

"That," said Hardwick, "makes for emotional thinking. These people
know their danger. So they've packed their children and their wives
into these little cockleshells to try to save them. They're waiting
offshore here to find out if they're doomed regardless. I wouldn't
say"--he nodded toward a delicately designed twin-hull sailer with more
children than adults aboard--"I wouldn't call that a good substitute
for an Ark!"

Young Barnes fidgeted. The boat turned again and went parallel to the
shore toward where Headquarters land came down to the sea. The ground
was firmer, there. There had been no irrigation. Lateral seepage had
done some damage at the edge of the reserve, but the major part of
the shoreline was unbroken, unchanged solid ground, looming above the
beach. There was, of course, no sand at the edge of the water. There
had been no weathering of rock to produce it. When this island was
upraised, its coating of hardened ooze protected the stone. The small
lee-side waves merely lapped upon bare, curdled rock. The wharf for
pleasure boats went out on metal pilings into deep water.

"Excuse me, sir," said young Barnes embarrassedly, "but ... if the fuel
blows, it'll be pretty bad, sir."

"That's the understatement of the century," Hardwick commented. "Yes.
It will. Why?"

"You've something in mind, sir, to try to save the rest of the island.
Nobody else seems to know what to do. If ... if I may say so, sir, your
... safety is pretty important. And you could do your work on the
cliffs, sir, and ... if I could stay at Headquarters and--"

He stopped, appalled at his own presumption in suggesting that he could
substitute for a Senior Officer even as a message-boy, and even for his
convenience or safety. He began to stammer:

"I m-mean, sir, n-not that I'm capable of it, sir--"

"Stop stammering," grunted Hardwick. "There aren't two separate
problems. There's one which is the compound of the two. I'm staying
at Headquarters to try something on the ship-fuel side, and Werner
will specialize on the rest of the island since he hasn't come up with
anything but shifting people to the ice pack. And the situation isn't
hopeless! If there's an earthquake or a storm, of course we'll be wiped
out. But short of one of those calamities, we can save part of the
island. I don't know how much, but some. You make those measurements.
If you're doubtful, get a Headquarters man to duplicate them. Then give
me both sets."

"Y-yes, sir," said Young Barnes, miserably.

"And," said Hardwick formidably. "Never try to push your ranking
officer into a safe place, even if you're willing to take his risk!
Would you like it if a man under you tried to put you in a safe place
while he took the chance that was yours?"

"N-no, sir!" admitted the very junior lieutenant. "But--"

"Make those measurements!" snapped Hardwick.

       *       *       *       *       *

The boat came into the dock. Hardwick got out of the boat. He went to
Sandringham's office.

Sandringham was in the act of listening to somebody in the
phone-screen, who apparently was on the thin edge of hysteria. The
brown dog was sprawled asleep on the rug.

When the man in the vision-screen panted to a stop, Sandringham said
calmly:

"I am assured that before the soil of the island is too far gone,
measures now in preparation will be applied to good effect. A Senior
Survey Officer is now preparing remedial measures. He is a ... ah ...
specialist in problems of exactly this nature."

"_But we can't wait!_" panted the civilian fiercely. "_I'll proclaim a
planetary emergency! We'll take over the reserve area by force! We have
to_--"

"If you try," Sandringham told him grimly, "I'll mount paralysis-guns
to stop you!" He said with icy precision: "I urged the planetary
government to go easy on this irrigation! You yourself denounced me in
the Planetary Council for trying to interfere in civilian affairs! Now
you want to interfere in Survey affairs! I resent it as much as you
did, and with much better reason!"

"_Murderer!_" panted the civilian. "_Murderer!_"

Sandringham snapped off the phone-screen. He swung his chair and
nodded to Hardwick.

"That was the planetary president," he said dryly.

Hardwick sat down. The brown dog blinked his eyes open and then got up
and shook himself.

"I'm holding off those idiots!" said the Sector Chief in suppressed
fury. "I daren't tell him it's more dangerous here than outside! If
or when that fuel blows--Do you realize that the falling of a single
tree limb might set off an explosion in the Reserve-area here that
would--But you know."

"Yes," admitted Hardwick.

He did know. Even forty tons of ship-fuel going off would destroy
this entire end of the island. It would be at least the equivalent of
a megaton fusion bomb explosion. And almost certainly the concussion
would produce violent movement of the rest of the island's surface. But
he was uncomfortable about putting forward his own ideas. He was not a
good salesman. He suspected his own opinions until he had proved them
with extremely painstaking care--for fear of having them adopted on his
past record rather than because they were sound. And then, too, his
plan involved junior ranks being informed about the proposal. If they
accepted a dubious plan on high authority, and the plan miscarried,
it made them share in the mistake. Which hurt their self-confidence.
Young Barnes, now, would undoubtedly obey any order and accept any hint
blindly, and Hardwick honestly did not know why. But as a matter of the
training of junior ranks--

"About the work to be done," said Hardwick. "I imagine the sea-water
freshening plants have closed down?"

"They have!" said Sandringham curtly. "They insisted on piling them up
over my protests. Now if anybody proposed operating one, they'd scream
to high heaven!"

Hardwick felt uncomfortable.

"What was done with the minerals taken out of the sea water?"

"You know how the fresheners work!" said Sandringham. "They pump sea
water in at one end, and at the other, one pipe yields fresh water, and
another heavy brine. They dump the heavy brine back overboard and the
fresh water's pumped up and distributed through the irrigation systems."

"It's too bad some of the salts weren't stored," said Hardwick. "Could
a freshener be started up again?"

Sandringham said with irony:

"Oh, the civilians would love that! No! If any man started up a
water-freshener, the civilians would kill him and smash it!"

"But I think we'll need one. We'll want to irrigate some ground up
here."

"My God! What for?" demanded Sandringham. Then he said shortly: "No!
Don't tell me! Let me try to work it out."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was silence. The brown dog blinked at Hardwick. He held out his
hand. The dog came sedately to him and bent his head to be scratched.
Hardwick scratched.

After a considerable time, the Sector Chief growled:

"I give up. Do you want to tell me?"

Hardwick said painstakingly:

"In a sense, the trouble here is that there's a swamp underground,
made by irrigation. It slides. It's really a swamp upside down. On
Soris II we had a very odd problem, only the swamp was right-side-up
there. We'd several hundred square miles of swamp that could be used
if we could drain it. We built a soil-dam around it. You know
the trick. You bore two rows of holes twenty feet apart, and put
soil-coagulant in them. It's an old, old device. They used it a couple
of hundred years ago back on Earth. The coagulant seeps out in all
directions and ... well ... coagulates the dirt. Makes it water-tight.
It swells with water and fills the space between the soil-particles. In
a week or two there's a water-tight barrier, made of soil, going down
to bedrock. You might call it a coffer-dam. No water can seep through.
On Soris II we knew that if we could get the water out of the mud
inside this coffer-dam, we'd have cultivable ground."

Sandringham said skeptically:

"But it called for ten years' pumping, eh? When mud doesn't move,
pumping isn't easy!"

"We wanted the soil," said Hardwick. "And we didn't have ten years. The
Soris II colony was supposed to relieve population-pressure on another
planet. The pressure was terrific. We had to be ready to receive some
colonists in eight months. We had to get the water out quicker than it
could be pumped. And there was another problem mixed up with it. The
swamp vegetation was pretty deadly. It had to be gotten rid of, too.
So we made the dam and ... well ... took certain measures and then we
irrigated it. With water from a nearby river. It was very ticklish. But
we had dry ground in four months, with the swamp-vegetation killed and
turning back to humus."

"I ought to read your reports," said Sandringham dourly. "I'm too busy,
ordinarily. But I should read them. How'd you get rid of the water?"

Hardwick told him. He felt uncomfortable about it. The telling required
eighteen words.

"Of course," he added, "we did pick a day when there was a strong wind
from the right quarter."

Sandringham stared at him. Then he said vexedly:

"But how does that apply here? It was sound enough, though I'd never
have thought of it. But what's it got to do with the situation here?"

"This ... swamp, you might say," said Hardwick, "is underground. But
there's forty feet, on an average, of soil on top."

He explained painstakingly what difference that made. It took him three
sentences to make the difference clear.

Sandringham leaned back in his chair. Hardwick scratched the dog,
somewhat embarrassed. Sandringham thought concentratedly.

"I do not see any possible chance," said Sandringham distastefully,
"of doing it any other way. I would never have thought of that! But at
least ninety per cent of the people on this island, Civilian and Survey
together, will die if we don't do something. So we will do this. But
I'm taking it out of your hands, Hardwick."

Hardwick said nothing. He waited.

"Because," said Sandringham, "you're not the man to put over to the
civilians what they must believe. You're not impressive. I know you,
and I know you're a good man in a pinch. But this pinch needs a
salesman. So I'm going to have Werner make the ... er ... pitch to the
planetary government. Results are more important than justice, so
Werner will front this affair."

Hardwick winced a little. But Sandringham was right. He didn't know how
to be impressive. He could not speak with pompous conviction, which
is so much more convincing than reason, to most people. He wasn't the
man to get the co-operation of the non-Service population, because he
could only explain what he knew and believed, and was not practiced in
persuasion. But Werner was. He had the knack of making people believe
anything, not because it was reasonable but because it was oratory.

"I suppose you're right," acknowledged Hardwick. "We need civilian help
and a lot of it. I'm not the man to get it. He is." He did not say
anything about Werner being the man to get credit, whether he deserved
it or not. He patted the dog's head and stood up. "I wish I had a good
supply of soil-coagulant. I need to make a coffer-dam in the reserve
area here. But I think I'll manage."

Sandringham regarded him soberly as he moved to the door. As he was
about to pass out of it, Sandringham said:

"Hardwick--"

"What?"

"Take good care of yourself. Will you?"




                                  IV


Therefore Senior Officer Werner, of the Colonial Survey, received his
instructions from Sandringham. Hardwick never knew the details of the
instructions Werner got. They were possibly persuasive, or they may
have been menacing. But Werner ceased to argue for the movement of any
fraction of the island's population to the arctic ice cap, and instead
made frequent eloquent addresses to the planetary population on the
scientific means by which their lives were to be saved. Between the
addresses, perhaps, he sweated cold sweat when a tree sedately tilted
in what had seemed solid soil, or a building settled perceptibly while
he looked at it, or when ... say ... a section of the island's soil
bulged upward.

Publicly, he headed citizens' committees, and grandly gave
instructions, and spoke in unintelligible and, therefore, extremely
scientific terms when desperately earnest men asked for explanations.
But he was perfectly clear in what he wanted them to do.

He wanted drill-holes in the arable soil down to the depth at which the
holes began to close up of themselves. He wanted those holes not more
than a hundred feet apart, in lines which slanted at forty-five degrees
to the gradient of the bedrock.

Sandringham checked his speeches, at the rate of four a day. Once he
had Hardwick called away from where he supervised extremely improbable
operations. Hardwick was smeared with the island's grayish mud when he
looked into the phone-plate to take the call.

"Hardwick," said Sandringham curtly, "Werner's saying those holes you
want are to be lines at forty-five degrees to the gradient."

"That ... I'd like a little more," said Hardwick. "A little less,
rather. If they slanted three miles across the grade for every two
downhill, it would be better. I'd like to put a lot more lines of
holes. But there's the element of time."

"I'll have him explain that he was misquoted," said Sandringham,
grimly. "Three across to two down. How close do you really want those
lines?"

"It's not how close," said Hardwick. "I've got to have them quickly.
How does the barometer look?"

"Down a tenth," said Sandringham.

Hardwick said:

"Damn! Has he got plenty of labor?"

"All the labor there is," said Sandringham. "And I'm having a road laid
along the cliffs for speed with the trucks. If I dared ... and if I had
the pipe ... I'd lay a pipe line."

"Later," said Hardwick tiredly. "If he's got labor to spare, set them
to work turning the irrigation systems hind part before. Make them
drainage systems. Use pumps. So if rain does come it won't be spread
out on the land by all the pretty ditches. So it will be gathered
instead and either flung back over the cliffs or else drained downhill
without getting a chance to sink into the ground. For the time being,
anyhow."

Sandringham said evenly:

"Has it occurred to you what a good, pounding rain would do to
Headquarters, and consequently to public confidence on this island, and
therefore to the attempt of anybody to do anything but wring his hands
because he was doomed?"

Hardwick grimaced.

"I'm irrigating, here. I've got a small-sized lake made, and an ice
coffer-dam, and the water-freshener is working around the clock. If
there is labor, tell 'em to fix the irrigation systems into drainage
layouts. That will cheer them, anyhow."

       *       *       *       *       *

He was very weary, then. There is a certain exhausting quality in the
need to tell other men to do work which may cause them to be killed
spectacularly. The fact that one will certainly be killed with them
does not lessen the tension.

He went back to his work. And it definitely seemed to be as purposeless
as any man's work could possibly be. Down-grade from the now thoroughly
deserted area in which ship-fuel tanks had leaked--quite far
down-grade--he had commandeered all the refrigeration equipment in the
warehouses. Since refrigeration was necessary for fuel-storage, there
was a great deal. He had planted iron pipe in the soil, and circulated
refrigerant in it, and presently there was a wall of solidly frozen
earth which was shaped like a shallow U. It was a coffer-dam. In the
curved part of that U he'd siphoned out a lake. A peristaltic pump ran
sea water from the island's lee out upon the ground--where it instantly
turned to mud--and another peristaltic pump sucked the mud up again and
delivered it down-grade beyond the line of freezing-pipes. It was in
fact a system of hydraulic dredging such as is normally performed in
rivers and harbors. But when topsoil is merely former abyssal mud it
is an excellent way to move dirt. Also, it does not require anybody to
strike blows into soil which may be explosive when one has gotten down
near bedrock, and in particular there are no clanking machines.

But it was hair-raising.

In one day, though, he had a sizable lake pumped out. And he pumped it
out to emptiness, painstakingly smelling the water as it went down to a
greater depth below the previous ground surface. At the end of the day
he shivered and ordered pumping ended for the time.

But then he had the brine-pipe laid around a great circuit, to the
Headquarters ground which was upgrade from the now-deserted square
mile or so in which the fuel tanks lay deep in the soil. And here,
also, he performed excavation without the sound of hammer, shovel, or
pick. He thrust pipes into the ground, and they had nozzles at the end
which threw part of the water backward. So that when sea water poured
into them it thrust them deeper into the ground by the backward jet
action. Again the fact that the soil was abyssal mud made it possible.
The nozzles floated up much grayish mud, but they bored ahead down
to bedrock, and there they lay flat and tunneled to one side and the
other--the tunnels they made being full of water at all times.

From those tunnels, as they extended, an astonishing amount of sea
water seeped out into the soil near bedrock. But it was sea water. It
was heavily mineralized. And it is a peculiarity of sea water that
it is an electrolyte, and it is a property of electrolytes that they
coagulate colloids, and rather definitely discourage the suspension of
small solid particles which are on the borderline of being colloids. In
fact, the water of the ocean of Canna III turned the ground-soil into
good, honest mud which did not feel at all soapy, and through which it
percolated with a surprising readiness.

Young Barnes eagerly supervised this part of the operation, once it
was begun. He shamed the Survey personnel assigned to him into perhaps
excessive self-confidence.

"He knows what he's doing," he said firmly. "Look here! I'll take that
canteen. It's fresh water. Here's some soap. Wet it in fresh water and
it lathers. See? It dissolves. Now try to dissolve it in sea water!
Try it! See? They put salt in the boiled stuff to separate soap out,
when they make it!" He'd picked up that item from Hardwick. "Sea water
won't soften the ground. It can't! Come on, now, let's get another pipe
putting more salt water underground!"

His workmen did not understand what he was doing, but they labored
zestfully because it was mysterious and for a purpose. But downhill,
in the hydraulic-dredged-out lake, water came seeping in, in the form
of mud. And then another pipe came up from the seashore and the mud
settled solidly on the bottom, not dispersing. It was a rather small
pipe, and the personnel who laid it were bewildered. Because there was
a water-freshening plant down there on the shore, and all the fresh
water was poured back overboard, while the brine--saturated with salts
from the ocean: unable to dissolve a single grain of anything else--was
being used to fill the small artificial lake.

The second day Sandringham called Hardwick again, and again Hardwick
peered wearily into the phone-screen.

"Yes," said Hardwick, "the leaked fuel is turning up. In solution, I'm
trying to measure the concentration by matching specific gravities of
lake water and brine, and then sticking electrodes in each. The fuel's
corrosive as the devil. It gives a different EMF. Higher than brine of
the same density. I think I've got it in hand."

"Do you want to start shipping it?" demanded Sandringham.

"You can begin pouring it down holes," said Hardwick. "How's the
barometer?"

"Down three-tenths this morning. Steady now."

"Damn!" said Hardwick. "I'll set up molds. Freeze it in plastic bags
the size of the bore-holes so it will go down. While it's frozen they
can even push it down deep."

Sandringham said very grimly:

"There's been more damned technical work done with ship-fuel than any
other substance since time began. But remember that the stuff can still
be set off, even dissolved in water! Its sensitivity goes down, but
it's not gone!"

"If it were," said Hardwick drearily, "you could invite in the civilian
population to sit on its rump. I've got something like forty tons of
ship-fuel in brine solution in this lake I pumped out! But it's in
five thousand tons of brine. We don't speak above a whisper when we're
around it. We walk in carpet slippers and you never saw people so
polite! We will start freezing it."

"How can you handle it?" demanded Sandringham apprehensively.

"The brine freezes at minus thirty," said Hardwick. "In one per cent
solution it's only five per cent sensitive at minus nineteen. We're
handling it at minus nineteen. I think I'll step up the brine and chill
it a little more."

He waved a mud-smeared hand and went away.

       *       *       *       *       *

That day, bolster-trucks began to roll out of Survey Headquarters.
They rolled very, very smoothly, and they trailed a fog of chilled air
behind them. And presently there were men with heavy gloves on their
hands taking long things like sausages out of the bolster-trucks and
untying the ends and lowering them down into holes bored in the topsoil
until they reached places where wetness made the holes close up again.
Then the men from Survey pushed those frozen sausages underground still
further by long poles with carefully padded--and refrigerated--ends.
And then they went on to other holes.

The first day there were five hundred such sausages thrust down into
holes in the ground, which holes to all intents and purposes closed up
behind them. The second day there were four thousand. The third day
there were eight. On the fourth the solution of ship-fuel in brine in
the lake did not give adequate EMF in the little battery-cell designed
to show how much corrosive substance there was in the brine. Hardwick
took samples from the fluid draining into the lake. It was not mud any
longer. Brine flowed at the top of bedrock, and it left the mud behind
it, because salt water remarkably hindered the suspension of former
globigerinous ooze particles. It was practically colloid. Salt water
practically coagulated it.

The brine flowing from the salt-water tunnels upwind showed no more
ship-fuel in it. Hardwick called Sandringham and told him.

"I can call in the civilians!" said Sandringham. "You've mopped up the
leaked stuff! It couldn't have been done--"

"Not anywhere but here, with bedrock handy just underneath, and
slanting," said Hardwick. "But I wouldn't advise it. Tell them they can
come if they want to. They'll sort of drift in. I want to tap some more
ship-fuel for the rest of those bore-holes. From the tanks that haven't
leaked."

Sandringham hesitated.

"Twenty thousand holes," said Hardwick tiredly. "Each one had a
six-hundred block of frozen saturated brine dumped in it, with roughly
one pound of ship-fuel in solution. You have gone that far. Might as
well go the rest of the way. How's the barometer?"

"Up a tenth," said Sandringham. "Still rising."

Hardwick blinked at him, because he had trouble keeping his eyes open
now.

"Let's ride it, Sandringham!"

Sandringham hesitated. Then he said:

"Go ahead."

Hardwick waved his arms at his associates, whom he admired with great
fervor in his then-foggy mind, because they were always ready to work
when it was needed, and it had not stopped being needed for five days
running. He explained very lucidly that there were only three more
miles of holes to be filled up, and therefore they would just draw so
much of ship-fuel and blend it carefully with an appropriate amount of
suitable chilled brine and then freeze it in appropriate sausages--

Young Lieutenant Barnes said gravely:

"Yes, sir. I'll take care of it. You remember me, sir! I'll take care
of it."

Hardwick said:

"Barometer's up a tenth." His eyes did not quite focus. "All right,
lieutenant. Go ahead. Promising young officer. Excellent. I'll sit down
here for just a moment."

When Barnes came back, Hardwick was asleep. And a last one hundred and
fifty frozen sausages of brine and ship-fuel went out of Headquarters
within a matter of hours, and then a vast quietude settled down
everywhere.

Young Barnes sat beside Hardwick, menacing anybody who even thought of
disturbing him. When Sandringham called for him. Barnes went to the
phone-plate.

"Sir," he said with vast formality. "Mr. Hardwick went five days
without sleep. His job's done. I won't wake him, sir!"

Sandringham raised his eyebrows.

"You won't?"

"I won't, sir!" said young Barnes.

Sandringham nodded.

"Fortunately," he observed, "nobody's listening. You are quite right."

He snapped the connection. And then young Barnes realized that he had
defied a Sector Chief, which is something distinctly more improper in
a junior officer than merely trying to instruct him in topping off his
vacuum-suit tanks.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twelve hours later, however, Sandringham called for him.

"Barometer's dropping, lieutenant. I'm concerned. I'm issuing a notice
of the impending storm. Not everybody will crowd in on us, but a great
many will. I'm explaining that the chemicals put into the bottom soil
may not quite have finished their work. If Hardwick wakens, tell him."

"Yes, sir," said Barnes.

But he did not intend to wake Hardwick. Hardwick, however, woke of
himself at the end of twenty hours of sleep. He was stiff and sore
and his mouth tasted as if something had kittened in it. Fatigue can
produce a hangover, too.

"How's the barometer?" he asked when his eyes came open.

"Dropping, sir. Heavy winds, sir. The Sector Chief has opened the
Reserve Area, sir, to the civilians if they wish to come."

Hardwick computed dizzily on his fingers. A more complex instrument was
actually needed, of course. One does not calculate on one's fingers
just how long a one per cent solution of ship-fuel in frozen brine
has taken to melt, and how completely it has diffused through an
upside-down swamp with the pressure of forty feet of soil on top of it,
and therefore its effective concentration and dispersal underground.

"I think," said Hardwick, "it's all right. By the way, did they turn
the irrigation systems hind end to?"

Young Barnes did not know what this was all about. He had to send for
information. Meanwhile he solicitously plied Hardwick with coffee and
food. Hardwick grew reflective.

"Queer," he said. "You think of the damage forty tons of ship-fuel can
do. Setting off the rest of the store and all. But even by itself it
rates some thousands of tons of TNT. I wonder what TNT was, before it
became a ton-measure of energy? You think of it exploding in one place,
and it's appalling! But think of all that same amount of energy applied
to square miles of upside-down swamp. Hundreds or thousands of miles
of upside-down swamp. D'you know, lieutenant, on Soris II we pumped a
ship-fuel solution onto a swamp we wanted to drain? Flooded it, and let
it soak until a day came with a nice, strong, steady wind."

"Yes, sir," said Barnes respectfully.

"Then we detonated it. We didn't have a one per cent solution. It was
more like a thousandth of one per cent solution. Nobody's ever measured
the speed of propagation of an explosion in ship-fuel, dry. But it's
been measured in dilute solution. It isn't the speed of sound. It's
lower. It's purely a temperature-phenomenon. In water, at any dilution,
ship-fuel goes off just barely below the boiling-point of water.
It doesn't detonate from shock when it's diluted enough to be all
ionized--but that takes a hell of a lot of dilution. Have you got some
more coffee?"

"Yes, sir," said Barnes. "Coming up, sir."

"We floated ship-fuel solution over that swamp, Barnes, and let it
stand. It has a high diffusion-rate. It went down into the mud--And
there came a day when the wind was right. I dumped a red-hot iron
bar into the swamp water that had ship-fuel in solution. It was the
weirdest sight you ever saw!"

Barnes served him more coffee. And Hardwick sipped it, and it burned
his tongue.

"It went up in steam," he said. "The swamp water that had the ship-fuel
dissolved in it. It didn't explode, as a mass. They told me later that
it propagated at hundreds of feet per second only. They could see the
wall of steam go marching across the swamp. Not even high-pressure
steam. There was a _whoosh!_ and a cloud of steam half a mile high
that the wind carried away. And all the surface water in the swamp was
gone, and all the swamp-vegetation parboiled and dead. So"--he yawned
suddenly--"we had a ten-mile by fifty-mile stretch of arable ground
ready for the coming colonists."

He tried the coffee again. He added reflectively:

"That trick--it didn't explode the ship-fuel, in a way. It burned it.
In water. It applied the energy of the fuel to the boiling-away of
water. Powerful stuff! We got rid of two feet of water on an average,
counting what came out of the mud. It cost ... hm-m-m ... a fraction of
a gram per square yard."

He gulped the coffee down. There were men looking at him solicitously.
They seemed very glad to see him awake again. There was a monstrous
bank of cloud-stuff piling up in the sky. He suddenly blinked at that.

"Hello! How long did I sleep, Barnes?"

Barnes told him. Hardwick shook his head to clear it.

"We'll go see Sandringham," said Hardwick, heavily. "I'd like to
postpone firing as long as I can, short of having the stuff start
draining into the sea to leeward."

There were mud-stained men around the place where Hardwick had slept.
When he went--still groggy--out to the bolster-truck young Barnes had
waiting, they regarded Hardwick in a very satisfying manner. Somebody
grunted, "Good to've worked with you, sir,"--which is about as much of
admiration as anybody would want to hear expressed. These associates of
Hardwick in the mopping-up of leaked ship's fuel would be able to brag
of the job at all times and in all places hereafter.

Then the truck went trundling away in search of Sandringham.

       *       *       *       *       *

It found him on the cliffs to the windward side of the island. The
sea was no longer a cerulean blue. It was slaty-color. There were
occasional flecks of white foam on the water four thousand feet below.
There were dark clouds, by then covering practically all the sky. Far
out to sea, there were small craft heading grimly for the ends of the
island, to go around it and ride out the coming storm in its lee.

Sandringham greeted Hardwick with relief. Werner stood close by,
opening and closing his hands jerkily.

"Hardwick!" said the Sector Chief cordially. "We're having a
disagreement, Werner and I. He's confident that the turning of the
irrigation systems hind end to--making them surface-drainage systems,
in effect--will take care of the whole situation. Adding the brine
underground, he thinks, will have done a good deal more. He says it'll
be bad, psychologically, for anything more to be done. He didn't speak
of it, and it would injure public confidence in the Survey."

Hardwick said curtly:

"The only thing that will make a permanent difference on this island
is for the water-fresheners to be a little less efficient. Barnes has
the figures. He computed them from some measurements I had him make. If
the water-freshener plants don't take all the sea-minerals out: if they
don't make the irrigation-water so infernally soft and suitable for
hair-washing and the like: if they turn out hard water for irrigation,
this won't happen again! But there's too much water underground now. We
have got to get it out, because a little more's going underground from
this storm, surface-drainage systems or no surface-drainage systems."

Sandringham pointed to leeward, where a black, thick procession of
human beings trooped toward the Survey area on foot and by every
possible type of vehicle.

"I've ordered them turned into the ship-sheds and warehouses," said
the Sector Chief. "But of course we haven't shelter for all of them.
At a guess, when they feel safe they'll go back to their homes even
through the storm."

The sky to windward grew blacker and blacker. There was no longer a
steady flow of wind coming over the cliff's edge. It came in gusts,
now, of extreme violence. They could make a man stagger on his feet.
There were more flecks of white on the ocean's surface.

"The boats," added Sandringham, "were licked. There simply wasn't
enough oil to maintain the slick. The radio reports were getting
hysterical before I ordered them told that we had it beaten on shore.
They're running for shelter now. I think they'd have stayed out there
trying to hold the slick in place with their towline, if I hadn't said
we had matters in hand."

Werner said, tight-lipped: "I hope we have!"

Hardwick shrugged.

"The wind's good and strong, now," he observed. "Let's find out. You've
got the starting system all set?"

Sandringham waved his hand. There was a high-voltage battery set.
It was of a type designed for blasting on airless planets, but that
did not matter. Its cables led snakily for a couple of hundred feet
to a very small pile of grayish soil which had been taken out of a
bore-hole. They went over that untidy heap and down into the ground.
Hardwick took hold of the firing-handle. He paused.

"How about highways?" he asked. "There might be some steam out of this
hole."

"All allowed for," said Sandringham. "Go ahead."

There was a gust of wind strong enough to knock a man down. There
was a humming sound in the air, as storm-wind beat upon the
four-thousand-foot cliff and poured over its top. There were gradually
rising waves, below. The sky was gray. The sea was slate-colored. Far,
far to windward, the white line of pouring rain upon the water came
marching toward the island.

Hardwick pumped the firing-handle.

There was a pause, while wind-gusts tore at his garments and staggered
him where he stood. It was quite a long pause.

Then a white vapor came seeping out of the bore-hole. It was perfectly
white. Then it came out with a sudden burst which was not in any sense
explosive, but was merely a vast rushing of vaporized water. Then, a
hundred yards away, there was a mistiness on the grassy surface. Still
farther, a crack in the surface-soil let out a curtain of white vapor.

Here and there, everywhere, little gouts of steam poured into the air
and tumbled in the storm-wind. It was notable that the steam did not
come out as an invisible vapor, and condense in midair. It poured out
of the ground in clouds, already condensed but thrust out by more
masses of vapor behind it. It was not super-heated steam that came out.
It was simply steam. Harmless steam, like the steam out of the spouts
of tea kettles. But it rose from individual places everywhere. It made
a massy coating of vapor which the storm-wind blew away. In seconds a
half-mile of soil was venting steam; in seconds more a mile. The thick,
fleecy vapor swept across the landscape. The storm-wind could only
tumble it and sweep it away.

In minutes there was no part of the island to be seen at all, save only
the thin line of the cliffs reaching away between dark water on the one
hand and snow-white clouds of vapor on the other.

"It can't scald anybody, can it?" asked Barnes uneasily.

"Not," said Hardwick, "when it's had to come up through forty feet
of soil. It's been pretty well cooled off in taking up some extra
moisture. It spread pretty well, didn't it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Sector Chief's office had tall windows--doors, really--that looked
out upon green lawn and many trees. Now a downpour of rain beat down
outside. Wind whipped at the trees. There was tumult and roaring and
the vibration of gusts of hurricane force. Even the building in which
the Sector Chief's office was, vibrated slightly in the wind.

The Sector Chief beamed. The brown dog came in uneasily, looked around
the room, and walked in leisurely fashion toward Hardwick. He settled
with a sigh beside Hardwick's chair.

"What I want to know," said Werner tensely, "is, won't this rain put
back all the water the ship-fuel boiled away?"

Hardwick said uncomfortably: "Two inches of rain would be a heavy
fall, Sandringham tells me. It's the lack of heavy rains that made
the civilians start irrigating. When you figure the energy-content of
ship-fuel, Werner--an appreciable fraction of the energy in atomic
explosive--it's sort of deceptive. Turn it into thermal units and it
gets to be enlightening. We turned loose, underground, enough heat to
boil away two feet of soil-water under the island's whole surface."

Werner said sharply:

"What'll happen when that heat passes up through the soil? It'll kill
the vegetation, won't it?"

"No," said Hardwick mildly. "Because there _was_ two feet of water to
be turned to steam. The bottom layer of the soil was raised to the
temperature of steam at a few pounds pressure. No more. The heat's
already escaped. In the steam."

The phone-plate lighted. Sandringham snapped it on. A voice made a
report in a highly official voice.

"Right!" said Sandringham. The highly official voice spoke again.
"Right!" said Sandringham again. "You may tell the ships in orbit that
they can come down now, if they don't mind getting wet." He turned.
"Did you hear that, Hardwick? They have bored new cores. There are a
few soggy spots, but the ground's as firm, all over the island, as it
was when the Survey first came here. A very good job, Hardwick! A very
good job!"

Hardwick flushed. He reached down and patted the head of the brown dog.

"Look!" said the Sector Chief. "My dog, there, has taken a liking to
you. Will you accept him as a present, Hardwick?"

Hardwick grinned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Young Barnes made ready to rejoin his ship. He was very strictly
Service, very stiffly at attention. Hardwick shook hands with him.

"Nice to have had you around, lieutenant," he said warmly. "You're a
very promising young officer. Sandringham knows it and has made a note
of the fact. Which I suspect is going to put you to a lot of trouble.
There's a devilish shortage of promising young officers. He'll give you
hellish jobs to do, because he has an idea you'll do them."

"I'll try, sir," said young Barnes formally. Then he said awkwardly,
"May I say something, sir? I'm very proud, sir, to have worked with
you. But dammit, sir, it seems to me that something more than just
saying thank you was due you! The Service, sir, ought to--"

Hardwick regarded the young man approvingly.

"When I was your age," he said, "I'd the very same attitude. But I had
the only reward the Service or anything else could give me. The job
got done. It's the only reward you can expect in the Service, Barnes.
You'll never get any other."

Young Barnes looked rebellious. He shook hands again.

"Besides," said Hardwick, "there is no better."

Young Barnes marched back toward his ship in the great metal
crisscross of girders which was the landing-grid.

Hardwick absently patted his dog. He headed back toward Sandringham's
office for his orders to return to his own work.

                                THE END

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SWAMP WAS UPSIDE DOWN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
