The Project Gutenberg eBook of One of three, by Wesley Long

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: One of three

Author: Wesley Long

Release Date: September 4, 2022 [eBook #68904]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ONE OF THREE ***





                             ONE OF THREE

                              A novel by
                              WESLEY LONG

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Startling Stories, March 1948.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                               CHAPTER I

                              _Contact!_


The bit of whitish substance fluoresced, which of course was quite
natural. It also vibrated very faintly, which was unnatural. At
least, this property had not been known previously--which is really
saying little since the material had been compounded from artificial
radioisotopes from the big piles. All too little was known about such
items and the fact that this one was vibrating ever so faintly whenever
the electron beam struck it was interesting both from a scientific and
a lay curiosity standpoint.

Ed Bronson blinked a bit and decided that he had made some mistake. It
had ceased to vibrate.

Ed cracked the experimental tube and removed the irregular lump. It had
been hoped to produce a more brilliant and higher-contrast phosphor for
television screens. But if it was going to vibrate--

Ed inserted the lump of phosphor back in the tube, pumped it and
restarted the whole gear.

It vibrated again, ever so faintly, against the bottom of the glass.
Bronson listened carefully, his engineer's mind trying to identify the
sound. It was not the sixteen kilocycle sweep circuit--not the one
that scanned the face of the television tube, because this was not a
complete set-up and there was no scanning energy necessary. It was
vaguely familiar.

It came and it went, that faint vibration. Sometimes it rattled
violently, other times it purred gently. Always very faintly of
course--for the term 'violently' means only by comparison.

Ed adjusted the field strength of the focusing magnet about the neck
of the tube and the vibration strengthened to a noticeable degree.
He juggled the controls but found he had hit the maximum or optimum
response.

There was something about it.... It was like human whisperings too
faint to be understood but not too faint to be unheard. Like the
bloop-bleep of a leaky faucet that seems to be saying things about you
just too quietly to be really understood. Like the imagined whisperings
heard by the paranoiac....

Ed laughed. Hearing things!

Like hades he was hearing things. It was really there. The lump of
phosphor moved a perceptible amount as a peak of rattle passed. And
yet....

Ed Bronson uncoiled his wiry six feet from the chair and cracked
the seal on the tube again. He lifted the top and squinted at the
crystalline whiteness that had been rattling so maddeningly.

He went to a cupboard at the end of his laboratory and rummaged among
small boxes that stood on one shelf--no two boxes seeming to be of the
same size. The upshot of this rummaging was that Bronson had to spend
some time repiling the boxes after he had found the contact microphone
he was seeking. Eventually, however, Ed Bronson was repumping the tube.

Inside was the crystal phosphor and fastened to it was a sensitive
contact microphone.

Once more Bronson keyed the switches, adjusted focus, and intensity.
Then, from the speaker of the amplifier connected to the contact
microphone, there came a cacophony of noise, howling whistles,
deep-throated hums, and a horde of middle-register tones. Not music,
and far from it. Just random--somethings.

Yet in the background, barely audible as such but most definitely
identifiable, was the voice of a woman.

Any speaker would have ceased had she known her efforts were thus
wasted. It was indistinguishable and unintelligible save for a
scattered word here and there, which was unmistakably in English. Ed
Bronson thought that it was like trying to eavesdrop on a conversation
in a boiler factory.

       *       *       *       *       *

He wondered what radio program he had tapped in on. He turned his
radio on, and scanned the bands, even listening to the weaker
stations--which, of course were far from being as ragged as this,
regardless of their weakness--but came to the conclusion that there was
nothing on the air that corresponded to the voice of the woman that
emerged from his kinescope testing tube.

Bronson noted with questing interest that occasionally one or more of
the interfering hoots, sirens and honks would cease for a moment or
two. So also did the woman's voice. Ed prayed that when sufficient
interference would cease, the woman would not choose that moment to
cease also. He wanted to know more about this. There was more to it
than met the eye.

If he could identify the speaker he might be able to establish a means
of communication. Location was also important. Furthermore, if this
were telephone or radio, he had a new means of receiving both. If it
were telephone and it worked on any or all, Ed Bronson had a gadget
that would make him the bane of all lovers of secrecy--including
espionage agents, who, of course, hate penetration of their own little
conclaves as deeply as they try to penetrate others'.

He--well, if it were radio he was intercepting he had nothing as
interesting as a telephone tapping gadget. But....

The tones dropped in volume. A shrill whistle that made vicious
interference with his hearing suddenly keyed off like the turning off
of a light. A booming roar ceased also and others of less importance
dropped or died. The cumulative effect of this was to permit the
woman's voice to come through.

It was not the perfect voice of a magnificent contralto reproduced
on the finest radio gear but a cool, clear contralto, transmitted by
cheap, shoddy equipment and received on something both obsolete and
inefficient.

Yet is was a woman's voice. And, with the luck of the patient
scientist, she was saying, "... home? It's at Thirteen forty-seven
Vermont Street, Postal Zone Eleven...."

And that was the first complete reception Ed Bronson heard. For, with
the completion of the message, the cacophony of hoots, keenings and
sirens blasted forth like a mad, insane symphony.

"I live at Thirteen forty-eight Vermont," shouted Bronson. "Across the
street!"

He charged out, raced across the street and pressed the doorbell. He
waited a moment and an elderly man came to the door.

"I'm Ed Bronson," explained he.

"I know you," snapped the other man. "Always gumming up my radio with
your fool experiments. What do you want?"

"Is your daughter using the telephone?" he asked.

"She ain't home."

"Your wife?"

"She's with Regina."

"Well, was some woman using the--"

"Look, Bronson, I ain't got no women here when my wife ain't, see? Now
what's your idea, huh?"

Bronson looked apologetic. This was Mr. Lewis McManner and both he
and his family were the kind of people--one of which seems to live on
every block--who chase robins from the front yard, call the police for
ball-playing boys and manage to maintain an immaculate house because it
never has a good chance to get cluttered with people.

"I've been working on an idea," he told McManner, "and I seem to have
picked up someone who claimed that her address was Thirteen forty-seven
Vermont Street."

"You'd think this was the only Vermont Street in the world!" snorted
McManner, slamming the door.

Bronson turned from the front door and retraced his steps. Despite his
disappointment, he could not help but grin at himself. After all, how
many 1347 Vermont Streets might there be between Puget Sound and Key
West? And, were he to try mailing each a letter, someone would most
certainly object loudly enough to cause Ed Bronson to explain that he
had heard a woman's voice mention the number and that he wanted to meet
her. He could visualize the psychiatric ward looming to receive him
while they tapped his knees and inspected his brain to find out whether
he was safe to let loose without a muzzle.

Yet Bronson sobered soon enough. He was an engineer. He knew that
what had been done once could be done again. Perhaps the way to get
in touch with this woman was to try to tap back. At least he could
listen to everything she said in the hope that she would repeat other
information.

       *       *       *       *       *

With a prayer Bronson separated a sizable hunk of the phosphor to work
upon, while the other "sang." He breathed no sigh of relief until he
had half of the original phosphor back in the tube with the works
completely covered, as before, by the mad mass of meaningless hoots
and catcalls. Then he went to work on the other piece. He did have a
parallel set-up right on the same bench. There was something about
this....

During the hours that followed there were three breaks in the
whistlings. The first produced only the words "nature of the
situation--" The second time the woman said, "--something _must_ be
done, of course, but you tell me what. I--" which also left Bronson
completely in the dark. The third time, she said "--so this part of the
Carlson family is going to bed!"

After which there was no woman's voice riding along with the myriad of
sounds. They were as before, like a radio that has gone off the air,
leaving an increased racket of background noise. It was maddening and
futile.

All he had to show for her hours of telephoning was her name. Carlson.

All he had to do was to get the telephone directories of all the cities
in the United States of America and perhaps Canada, then run through
the listings of 'Carlson' until he hit one that lived on 1347 Vermont
Street.

It might as well have been 'Smith' as far as running them down went. He
could try Central City. After all, he could easily have made an error
in listening.

But that was futile. Bronson sought the entire list of Carlsons and
found none who lived on Vermont Street or any phonetic variation.
Grumbling and baffled, he returned to his labors.

That, at least, proved more profitable. It was midnight when Bronson
discovered that tapping one of the bits of phosphor caused a response
in the other when they were energized by the electron bombardment from
the television tube works.

From that point to vibrating the hunk of phosphor with the adapted
insides of an old earphone and getting a response, took another hour of
whittling, filing and working. He discarded that method of modulation
two hours later when he discovered that an audio modulation of the
electron stream in the kinescope tube produced the same effect.

Then, dead tired, Ed Bronson went to bed. He'd have called the woman
right then and there had she been handy, but she had gone.

Bronson was truly beat. Had he stopped to think about it he would
have known that something big was in the wind. For he was tapping no
telephones. He had accidentally discovered some sort of communication
receiving principle and had then devised a transmitter.

His first thought on the following morning was to try the receiver.
She was there, all right, and so was a hooting cry of the dissonant
pipe-organings.

Bronson shrugged and fired up his transmitting gadget. "Miss Carlson!"
he called into the microphone. "Calling Miss Carlson of Thirteen
forty-seven Vermont Street. Can you hear me?"

Then he listened.

       *       *       *       *       *

Her voice paused briefly, took a new tone, but was still covered by the
whinings.

"Miss Carlson, this is Ed Bronson. I cannot hear you clearly because of
much interference. If you can hear me, make a lilting rill with your
voice. This I can distinguish among the many stable-toned notes that
are coming in at the time."

The voice rilled up and down several times. Then there was considerable
speech which Bronson could not understand.

The upshot of this, however, was a gradual shutting down of the
hootings and honkings until the receiver was clear. Then her voice came
through again.

"Mr. Bronson. I have requested silence for one minute. Where are you?"

"Thirteen forty-eight Vermont Street, Central City Eleven."

"That is across the street," she said.

"Perhaps," he answered.

"Well, it is," she said. "Unless we're in different Central Cities."

"Central City, New Mexico, eighteen miles from Albuquerque?"

"That's it. But we have little time, really, because we didn't get
the clear as soon as we asked for it. They hung over a bit--the
commercials, I mean."

"Commercials?" he asked. Dumfounded, he began to wonder. Commercial,
in radio parlance, meant any transmitter on the air for commercial
purpose and the presupposition that this system of communications must
be quite well known.

How then had Ed Bronson, an electronics engineer, managed to
live through the commercialization of an entirely new field of
communications?

"The commercial laboratories," she said.

"Oh? Then this is a laboratory experiment?"

"More than that--"

Bronson heard with dismay the first thin whistle resume.

He interrupted.

"Miss Carlson," he pleaded quickly, "we're going to be cut off again.
Meet me on the corner of Vermont and Thirteenth, please?"

"Yes but--"

That was all. The keening, piping howl came with ear-shattering
loudness once more.

Bronson turned off his gear and headed for the corner of Vermont and
13th. Let 'em hoot and howl.

He'd speak to the girl in person!

An hour later, Ed Bronson still stood there, leaning disconsolately
against a lamp post in the bright daylight. A ring of cigarette butts
surrounded his feet.

Whatever it was it was important and he, Bronson, had the key. All he
had to do was to find the door!

       *       *       *       *       *

Bronson returned home. The trouble--one of them, anyway--was that his
amplifier was a high fidelity affair, capable of flat transmission of
sounds as far as the human ear could hear.

That made for good music and that's what the amplifier had been built
for.

So Bronson went home determined to build a series of sharp filters.
First he would curtail the band-width of the amplifier until it peaked
around eight hundred cycles per second, near the musical note 'A' one
octave above the standard Concert Pitch 'A'.

Then he would build a set of sharply-tuned filters that would cut
'holes' in the remaining spectrum where the tonal interferences came.
It would make her speech less natural but far more intelligible.

Bronson needed more evidence before he did anything serious about it.

It was nearing five o'clock in the morning before he finished his job,
and started to listen once more.




                              CHAPTER II

                             _The Red Sky_


The girl turned from the window, where the bright sky silhouetted her
slender figure.

"How do I know where he is?" she snapped.

"Now look, Virginia," objected one of the men in the room, "there's no
point in getting angry. We must know."

"I know you must, Peter," she returned. "I agree. But I don't know. Do
you understand that? I don't know!"

Peter Moray shrugged. "Anybody capable of building a space resonator
must have enough training to have known about it in the first place."

John Cauldron spoke sharply, "You went out to the corner as suggested?"

"I did. He did not appear. After I returned I watched at regular
intervals. No one came. Also I listened carefully as you suggested.
He hasn't been calling--hasn't called since about eleven o'clock this
morning."

Peter Moray smiled. "Yesterday morning," he corrected.

"Don't be funny. You're the ones that have kept me up all night asking
fool questions over and over."

"They're not fool questions, Virginia."

"Any question repeated too often becomes a fool question," she replied.

Cauldron spoke heavily. "We're not cross-examining you, Virginia.
Please believe that. We ask and ask and ask because it may be that
something might have been said that sounds trivial, but may make large
sense."

The girl shrugged. "You're entitled to try," she said. She passed
a hand across her face wearily. "You've heard and reheard our
conversation as verbatim as I recall it. And it was an experience I
will not forget easily."

"Agreed," said Moray, walking to the west window and looking out. "I
guess we're all overkeyed."

Cauldron grumbled a bit. "There have been a lot of strange things
happening," he said. "This isn't the first."

Virginia smiled wanly but it was Cauldron who spoke next after a short
pause. "And at five-thirty in the morning, everything begins to get
somewhat distorted from a mental standpoint."

Moray turned from the brightness of the sky and mumbled something about
life's lowest ebb occurring just before dawn.

Then he added, "Why did this mess have to happen? Blast it, everybody
that knew swore up and down that the possibility was nil."

"Not nil enough," said Cauldron.

"No," agreed Virginia. "But that's life."

Moray slammed his fist down on the window-sill and swore. "That's
life," he echoed in a mocking tone. "Well, I don't like it!"

"Who does?" demanded Cauldron quietly.

"Can't you face facts?" snapped Moray. "Do you realize that we haven't
much time left? And what are we doing about it? Where are we? Nowhere,
or no further along than we were thirty years ago--exactly thirty years
ago. It's July sixteenth right now, and that's--"

"You're talking like a fool, Moray," said Virginia. "Have you ever
stopped to think that those of us who do not rant and rave and worry
ourselves into ulcers may have faced the fact, and find it ungood?
Well, there are those of us who will do what we can. There's little
sense in worrying about conditions--all it does is remove you from your
highest efficiency.

"When something is awry you do something to correct it if you can. If
you cannot you pigeonhole it until such a time as you can solve it. Not
forget it, never for a moment. But there's no sense in dragging a worry
back and forth across the floor until it is draining your life's blood.
As for that out there, I didn't do it."

"Good for you, Virginia," applauded Cauldron.

"No," snapped Moray. "You didn't. You were not born at that time. But
you can't fold your hands and accept it--nor can you say that it is
none of your business!"

"There's always suicide," said Virginia Carlson.

       *       *       *       *       *

A clock in the lower part of the house chimed once, marking the hour of
five-thirty.

Moray returned to the window and looked at the sky, west. "At
five-thirty in the morning of July sixteenth," he said, "one hundred
and twenty miles southeast of Albuquerque, in a remote section of the
Alamogordo air base, a group of scientists released the first atomic
fire. Thirty years later," he finished bitterly, "we have a perpetual
sunrise!"

On the laboratory table, the receiver rattled loudly. They turned, as
one.

"Look," snapped Cauldron quickly, "if that is this Ed Bronson
character, get in touch with him. We can use any technician we can get
our hands on. Any man with a brain might well hold the key to that
living cancer out there that is burning up the very earth."

"I'll put my chances on a space rocket," replied Peter Moray.

"I'd rather stop that fire out there."

"Why?" demanded Moray.

"Where would you go?" snapped Cauldron angrily. "There isn't a planet
fit for human occupation and you know it. You'll either put it out or
we'll all die. Not a chance for escape in any other way."

"I--"

"Shut up, while Virginia answers Bronson. He's having interference
trouble--you'll make it no easier."

From the speaker was coming Ed Bronson's voice, calling for Miss
Carlson and requesting an answer, for he had filters installed that
eliminated the whistlings.

Cauldron jabbed Moray with an elbow. "He's a right bright fellow," he
observed in a whisper.

Virginia Carlson spoke into the microphone. "You're right on the big
moment," she told Bronson.

"Big moment?" he replied.

"Sure. Thirty years ago today--this moment."

"Yeah?" drawled Bronson. "And what happened?"

Peter Moray looked at John Cauldron. "Tell me," he snapped, "what kind
of man could live to maturity and not know Alamogordo?"

"I don't know. I can't imagine," replied John Cauldron. "But
maybe--just maybe--it is the answer we've been seeking."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ed Bronson shook his head though he knew that the girl could not see
him. He had not heard Moray or Cauldron mention Alamogordo. He repeated
his query.

"And what happened?"

Virginia Carlson told him, "Thirty years ago, at Alamogordo, the
scientists first released the energy from the atom."

"Oh," he replied. "I didn't know it was marked on the calendar as a
holiday."

"Holiday?" exploded Virginia.

"Well?"

"That atomic fire is still burning!" snapped Virginia.

"Oh, no!"

"Well, I'm within a hundred and thirty miles of it," she replied, "and
I can see it out of the window."

"Where the dickens are you?" he asked.

"You know my address," she replied.

"Yes," he agreed. "And I went there and got pushed in the face for my
trouble."

"And the people who live at your address are named Carrington, not
Bronson."

"How old are you?" asked Bronson.

"Twenty-five--why?"

"Look," he said, "if that atomic fire is running out there, then how
did the World War Two end?"

"They brought high officials over to see the awful pillar of fire.
They didn't tell them that the atomic flame would eventually eat the
earth--so surrender was a matter of expediency. Once the shooting was
over all the earth turned at once to the job of putting it out. You
know that."

"Nope," he replied. "It worked--as did the others at Hiroshima,
Nagasaki, and two at Bikini Atoll."

"Hiro--and what was at Bikini Atoll?" demanded the girl.

"Tests--Operation Crossroads."

"_Tests!_" exploded Virginia. "And none of them started atomic fires in
the earth itself?"

"Nope."

"Then you tell me what happened?"

"I don't know."

"You're not psycho?" asked Virginia.

"Not that I know of," he replied with a chuckle. "Though--as Pontius
Pilate is credited with having said--'What is truth?'"

"Hmmm. I cannot deny your right to state truth as you see it, Bronson,
but be it remembered that practically every human born since the atomic
fire is a mutation of some sort or another."

"So what does that make me?"

"You might be some sort of brain mutation--don't ask what kind--one who
does not recognize the truth."

"All I know is what I read in the papers, what I see in the moving
pictures, and how I feel at the moment. Also, I am no mutation. I was
exactly one year old when Alamogordo took place, even supposing that it
did take off with radiations that might have mutated the germ plasm."

"Well, it did."

"According to you it did," replied Bronson.

"May I repeat your own statement to yourself?" she told him. "All I
know--et cetera."

"Okay," he said. "And granting that our separate tales are true, then
what?"

Virginia mentioned a few items of history. Both then got their own
history books and started to compare closely. They agreed on everything
up to the moment of the atomic bomb at Alamogordo.

And at that moment, the histories diverged.

"Nature," said Ed Bronson, "must have been perplexed. So she took both
roadways. One in which the earth is engulfed with atomic flame and one
in which the thing worked."

"What do we do next?" asked Virginia.

"We get in touch with the respective authorities of our worlds," said
Bronson. "Alone we can do little. Together we can do something to aid
you."

"Tomorrow night at seven, then?" asked Virginia.

"Right."

The contact was broken.

"And there," said Peter Moray, "is our answer!"




                              CHAPTER III

                             _Earth Three_


Harry Maddox turned from his laboratory table as the tall, dark man
entered. Maddox greeted the taller man obsequiously, but the other's
reply was curt.

"They've done it, you say?" asked Kingston.

"They've done it," replied Maddox gloatingly.

"That proves it then," replied Kingston with interest. "Though it has
always been a common enough theory."

"Within the past thirty-six hours," said Maddox, "there have been two
transmissions. The latter one is now going on. Want to hear it?"

"Not particularly," replied Kingston. "It will be recorded for my
leisure."

"Yes," nodded Maddox. His nod was toward a rather attractive girl, who
was riding herd on a large wire recorder. From time to time she would
reach out and adjust the volume of the recording. Over long blond hair
she wore earphones to monitor the conversation directly. Kingston made
a mental note that he could trust Maddox to adorn his laboratory and
workshop with the most attractive human decor that he could find.

Instead of commenting on this he smiled in amusement and continued to
speak. "Rather dramatic, isn't it?"

Maddox nodded. "Thirty years to the moment. That Alamogordo affair had
three possibilities. It could either have gone off normally--it could
have started an atomic fire in the earth--or it could have fizzled. And
so, thirty years later, the three temporal possibilities are meeting."

"No, my dear Maddox," said Kingston with the air of a savant correcting
a student who was not too careful of his facts. "Just two of them. We
sit by--remember?"

"I know," said Maddox, rebuffed.

"Remember--and never for a moment forget--that the possibility of the
Alamogordo bomb starting an atomic fire in the earth was a remote
possibility. That means that the tensors which maintain that line of
temporal advancement are very shaky.

"Time, you know, consists of following the Laws of Least Reaction,
which simply means that in any reaction wherein a number of
possibilities occur, that which will happen with the least energy will
take place. This is statistically true, and need not hold for specific
instances.

"Now," Kingston went on, enjoying his role of lecturer even though
Maddox fiddled impatiently because he knew it all beforehand--and
besides, the blonde was half-listening, though alert on her recording
job. "Be it always remembered that the chances of the Alamogordo Bomb
being a fizzle were as remote as the other case.

"Ergo, Maddox, our own world hangs on a slender thread of reality. We
have as much need to escape from this time-slot as they whose earth
is burning with atomic fire. For only in the time-slot where the
Alamogordo Bomb behaved according to principle are the time-tensors
heavy enough to maintain it."

"Yes, your Excellency," replied Maddox.

Kingston nodded. "You are a lucky fellow, Maddox. I came as soon as I
could get away. I shall remain here until we can go through and take
over."

"Sir, a question." Maddox knew that he must use deference at least
until Kingston climbed down from his tall horse. "What happens when, as
and if they start an atomic fire in Earth One?"

"They cannot, save by sheer chance of almost impossible mathematical
odds," said Kingston. "Besides, they hope to move in--or will as soon
as they learn the truth. No man burns the home he hopes to own in the
near future."

"But what will happen?" asked Maddox. "That expectation is far too deep
for me to follow."

"Men--all men--are inclined to feel sorry for the trapped," said
Kingston. "In some cultures their sorrow is shown by killing the
trapped to remove them from their misery. In other cultures, the
trapped are aided even though they may eventually turn against their
liberators. Once the truth is known to both worlds, those who are in
Earth One will be moved to aid the trapped ones in Earth Two.

"We shall aid them as we did before by transmitting to Earth One
more samples of the space-resonant radioisotope to contaminate their
scientific works. There will be a gaudy search for them once the truth
is known, you know. Anyway, those on Earth One will undoubtedly admit
the trapped ones from Earth Two."

       *       *       *       *       *

Maddox shrugged. "No dice, yet."

"Don't be stupid. Those on Earth Two are a race faced with death.
They'll send through their mutants, their death-dealing types first.
That will decimate Earth One and leave Earth One in the hands of Earth
Two. Follow?"

"So far, yes. But where do we come in?"

"We come in shortly. Ninety percent of those remaining on Earth Two are
mutants from the atomic fire or considerably older than thirty. The
ninety are almost certain to be--if not sterile--then not cross-fertile
with the rest of the mutant race. Each will have gone mutant in some
fashion different from his fellow.

"All we need do then is to sit and wait until the race dies
out--another thirty or forty years. Or, better, depending on the
circumstances following the eventual battle, we go to war. We shall
win, for our people have not lost much. At any rate we're permitting
Earth Two to do our cleaning-up for us."

"Unless--" began Maddox, then paused. He knew that if he advanced a
theory unasked it would be scorned. However, were he to make some
leading statement and then disavow it unuttered Kingston would demand
that he complete it whether he thought it right or wrong.

Kingston did, which was an excellent proof of the theory that it is
a good thing to know the nature of your fellow man. "Unless what?"
demanded Kingston.

"It was but an idle thought. Who fights more fiercely--he who has lost
his home and fights for another or he who protects himself from the one
who would dispossess him?"

Kingston laughed nastily. "Little difference," he said. "This is rigged
so that no matter what, a fight will ensue. It is always easy to lick
the survivor of a tough battle."

Maddox shrugged. "Just remember that you're not fighting aliens, but
you--our--own kind!"

Kingston nodded. "That," he said succinctly, "is why I know them so
well."

       *       *       *       *       *

Cauldron looked at his watch. "Two hours," he said. "Time enough?"

Virginia looked concerned. "He didn't state whether he'd been asleep
lately," she said.

"Unless he's a complete screwball, he'll work days and sleep nights,"
observed Moray. "Even supposing he works at home, he'll be arising
about noon at the latest and hitting the hay about three-odd. Excepting
when something was really in the fire like this receiver of his. I
predict that he hit the sheets after we closed and is now pounding the
pillow at a fine rate of speed."

Virginia smiled uncertainly, turning back from her communicating
equipment. "He doesn't answer," she said.

"Can you locate his phosphor?" demanded Cauldron.

"I have."

"Then try," snapped Moray. "Aid! Help!" he sneered, "We're in the way
of losing our very lives, and what we need, we take!"

Cauldron nodded. "Moray--you first. If Bronson is still in evidence
clip him. If not we'll go ahead and do whatever is necessary. We can't
take too long. After all--"

Moray nodded. "Ready, Virginia?"

"Ready."

Virginia worked over another bit of equipment in her laboratory. Moray
walked over easily, smoking a last cigarette leisurely until Virginia
turned to him.

"The focal volumes are resonant," she said. Then Moray seated himself
in the chair before the equipment and, as Virginia started the machine,
it began to transmit Pete Moray from one world to the other.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not especially spectacular. No flashing lights or flowing aurae
of color. Moray's body, still breathing, still living, began to be less
solid. At one time Moray lit another cigarette.

A bit of the cigarette smoke entered Ed Bronson's laboratory.
The amount was that percentage of the transmission that had been
accomplished.

There, before the big kinescope tube in Bronson's laboratory, the air
was beginning to show the vague outlines of a figure, seated on a
chair. This figure thickened gradually as the random atoms in Moray's
body passed over.

A half hour passed and Virginia told Cauldron that the transmission
should be about half complete. Moray's body could be seen through
faintly--not that any of the internal organs were visible but as if he
were a wraith.

Then the halfway point came. The floor in Bronson's laboratory was
lower than the floor in Virginia Carlson's laboratory--with respect
to their transmitters and receivers--and Moray and his chair dropped
several feet on both sides. Moray seemed to be unmindful of the fact
that the hard floor of Virginia's laboratory was about where his
stomach was.

A half hour later, there was little of Moray left on Earth Two. Most of
him was on Earth One!

As the final molecules came through the space resonator Moray heard a
noise. Frantic, he turned to see but could do nothing until the last of
him was complete. The noise resolved itself to footsteps, and then the
door opened and Ed Bronson strode in.

"Smoke--" he mumbled sleepily, then, "--who the heck are you!"

Moray was complete. He leaped to his feet and clipped Bronson viciously
with the side of his hand. Bronson dropped, stunned, dazed, but not
unconscious. Deftly, Moray found a roll of tape, bound Bronson's ankles
and wrists, slapped a bit of tape across his mouth.

"Aid?" sneered Moray. "Promise us aid, all right. Fifty years will
pass while the idea is being thrashed out in Congress or in whatever
international organization there is here. Behave, Bronson, and you'll
live. Help us--understand? If you don't it's--" Moray drew a forefinger
across his throat.

Another figure started to form--vague and indistinct--and Moray lifted
the taped man across his shoulders, carried him upstairs, dumped him
across his bed and left him there.

When he returned to the laboratory, Virginia was beginning to solidify.
Moray seated himself and waited, smoking Bronson's cigarettes and
fortifying himself with a drink of Bronson's liquor. Moray smiled, but
his humor was bitter.

How to marshal an army? It took an hour to get one person through--to
pass the six or seven million still living in Earth Three would at this
rate take six or seven million hours--a mere eight hundred years if you
didn't bother with the extra leap-year days or take Christmas off.

       *       *       *       *       *

Time passed slowly and it was the full hour before Virginia came
through completely and arose from her chair.

"Collect Bronson or kill him?" she asked.

"I should have killed him," said Moray.

"Not at all," replied Virginia. "Even though this is quite similar to
our world remember that thirty years of time separate us--and thirty
years each of divergent development. We need someone to show us our way
around."

Moray shrugged. "He might guess about this factor?"

Virginia shook her head. "No," she said with finality. "He's just
beginning to think about the space resonator. Look at that pile of
haywire junk! He's downright dumbfounded at the idea of communicating
over a lump of electron-bombarded radioisotopic compound.

"To consider the transmission of matter from one volume of focus to
another is an idea beyond concept. And--no doubt--radioisotopes aren't
dished out as easily here as they are back there."

"Here, there, whither?" grinned Moray. "Let's call this Earth One
because it is going to be here long after Earth Two has dissolved in
atomic flame."

"Okay. So we've got this station first. We've got to get enough
radioisotopic phosphor passed around Earth One to make wholesale
passage possible. You run this station, Moray, and I'll stand by to act
as a front."

Moray looked at Virginia closely. Slender, blonde and possessed of an
ethereal and almost violent beauty, her personality and looks could and
would forestall much idle questioning. He nodded.

"You keep out of sight of Friend Bronson," he said. "It might be handy
to have you for a--a face card."

Virginia grinned....

Ed Bronson had a splitting headache and a crying pain in every muscle.
He had been lying motionless. It was all he could do against the
adhesive-taping job done by Peter Moray. His tongue was thick and furry
and his very soul cried for water. He could make no sound for the tape
covered his mouth.

Angrily, and resentfully, Bronson's temper flared. He set his muscles
against the tape about his wrists and strained. He tried the tape about
his ankles. Both were wound many times with the heavy tape which would
not be torn.

A twisting strain succeeded only in abrading his skin until the flesh
was raw and bleeding. With fading hope he prayed that the blood would
soften the tape and thought about rubbing himself raw even more so that
the further flow of blood might aid.

He gave that up when he saw that the tape was of the waterproof
variety. All the soaking in the world would do little good.

He rolled from the bed onto the floor, easing the thud by dropping
taped feet first and then angling to knees, turning to land on his
buttocks and then unfolding as gently as he knew how. He made it with
no undue effort. Then he rolled across the floor to the door and,
turning, he caught the hinge-butt under the tape at his wrists where
tape and wrists made a small triangle.

After many minutes, Bronson succeeded in weakening the tape and then,
hooking the tape firmly over the hinge, he tore it loose. To remove the
tape from his mouth and from his ankles was but a moment's work and
then Ed Bronson was free to act!

Quietly, he dressed. Then, using the utmost stealth, he stole down the
stairs and out onto the street. It was midmorning.

Nodding amicably to Lewis McManner, who scowled back across the street,
Ed Bronson headed for police headquarters.




                              CHAPTER IV

                           "_What Fools--_"


Ed Bronson thought it out on his way to the police station. Man was
an impossible mixture of altruism and selfishness. Man was inclined
to give freely to those who were needy--but would fight like fury to
withhold the very smallest of his possessions from the avaricious grasp
of those who would wrest them from him by force.

As a world requiring pity, aid and mercy, every effort would be bent
towards that end, even to the job of making room for them in an already
crowded world. But they had entered like bank robbers or claim jumpers.
Their own world lost, they intended to abandon it, pirating any other
world they could.

The brotherhood of man collapsed at that point and became a brotherhood
of hate. Tolerance and mercy and willingness to offer succor must be
forgotten when the needy become vicious. Biting the hand that feeds is
an old platitude which still holds true.

So Ed Bronson knew that, regardless of their wretched situation, they
must be stopped. This was invasion with capital letters. Even though
many of them must be direct descendants of people in this world,
invasion meant war! Even worse than civil war was the brother against
brother, man against man, war of survival.

They--and Ed Bronson paused. 'They' was an indefinite term. 'They'
should have some nomenclature for purposes of identification. Were the
invasion from another planet, 'they' would have a name.

Were it merely an earthly war, country against country or political
clan against political clan, both sides would have names. But here
was a case where it would be one earth, one world, against another
world--identical save for a trick in time that had split them apart.

Bronson needed a name and he needed it quickly. He reasoned and came
to the conclusion that the 'other world' should be called Earth Two
because it was not long for living. Once it was destroyed by its own
fire this world would revert to being '_the_' earth. Until such a time
as differentiation became unnecessary he would call the two worlds
Earth One and Earth Two.

Thus, independently, did the people of three almost identical earths
arrive at the same conclusion. Earth One was the original, where the
Alamogordo Experiment had been successful. Earth Two was where the
million-to-one chance of starting an all-consuming atomic fire had
actually happened. Earth Three was where the Alamogordo Experiment had
failed.

Ed Bronson and the folk from Earth Two were still to learn of Earth
Three and it was only sheer reasoning that made all three systems of
nomenclature congruent.

So by the time Ed Bronson located the police department he was prepared
to give a coherent story. He asked for the captain in charge.

"Cap'n Norris is busy," grumped the desk sergeant. "What's the matter?"

"My home is being invaded and--"

"Well, you don't need the captain for that," snapped the sergeant.
"Joe! Eddie! Get the wagon and go with this here--what's your name,
mister?--and see that the guys that broke into his place are canned!"

"I'm Ed Bronson," explained Ed. "But--"

"That's all right," grunted the sergeant. "Joe and Eddie'll take care
of you!"

"But you don't understand," said Ed patiently. "These are invaders from
another world."

"Invaders from--what?" asked the sergeant, doing a double take.

"They're just the beginning," said Ed. "If you manage to grab them
others will be coming."

"Eddie--Joe! Forget it. This is a Number Seven deal."

       *       *       *       *       *

Joe and Eddie looked at Ed Bronson with an odd glint in their eyes.
The sergeant looked down across the desk and said, "Now, Mr. Bronson,
suppose you come with me to the captain's office and we'll talk to him."

"That's fine," said Bronson. "You see, I'm not sure of what to do about
it all."

"Captain Norris will be able to help you," said the sergeant. "This
way."

He came from behind his desk and led Ed Bronson to the hallway door.
He opened the door and stepped back, permitting Ed to go first. Ed
found himself in a short hallway and started down it uncertainly. The
sergeant followed him until he reached the proper door.

"In there, Mr. Bronson," he said.

Bronson did not make particular note of the fact that the desk sergeant
had at no time been with his back to Ed. He opened the door and found
himself facing an elderly wise-looking man who had the appearance of
having seen, heard, and experienced, either first-hand or vicariously,
every item of trouble, grief and sin in the list.

"Captain Norris, this is Mr. Bronson. He has a bit of trouble. Thought
you'd best hear about it."

"Sit down, Mr. Bronson, and tell me about it," replied Captain Norris
easily.

"Well, sir, in the first place, I am an electronics specialist. It's--"

"A scientist of some sort, is that it?"

Ed nodded. "Most of us shy away from the name 'scientist' but that's
about it," he said. "So you're a scientist?" smiled Norris.

"Yes. And I was experimenting on a bit of radioisotopic phosphor,
hoping to make a better, more brilliant television picture."

"Has this all got to do with the people who are breaking into your
home?" asked Norris.

"Yes. That's how they got in."

"I see. Then go ahead. No, Sergeant Foster, you stay because you may
have to do something about this and it is best that you get your story
first hand. It'll save time. Now, Mr. Bronson?"

"Well, under the combined forces of the magnetic field and the
electronic bombardment the phosphor vibrated. I half recognized the
vibration. It was like a very faint whisper in another room that you
can't quite understand--but you know that someone is whispering.

"So I went to work on the phosphor and used a contact microphone on
it, and got in touch with some woman, who gave her address as across
the street from my home. When I went over there, I discovered that
it couldn't possibly be correct. Later I refined the thing a bit and
learned that her name was Carlson. Then I built a means of talking back
to her, and I learned that she was not on this world at all. It was--"

"Not on this earth--but talking American?" demanded Norris.

"Yes."

"Do go on," said Captain Norris, putting down his pipe and leaning
forward a bit.

"Well, you see, Captain Norris, there were some of the Manhattan
Project physicists who believed that there was a chance that the atomic
explosion might be strong enough to start a fission train in the earth
itself. In other words, they were afraid of setting the earth on fire
atomically. This was a possibility, and it seems that we now have two
worlds, each following the natural chain of events pursuant to the two
different possibilities."

"Very interesting, Mr. Bronson. Please go on. There must be more."

"After learning this, we decided to do what we could to alleviate the
difficulty. I went to bed. In the night--or rather while I was asleep,
they used some means or other to pass through from one world to the
other and one of them clipped me and taped me up. He told me that they
were going to move in on us--to displace us. I escaped and came here.
Something must be done!"

"Indeed! Something must be done indeed," replied Captain Norris.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bronson took a deep breath, and said, "I'm glad that I had this chance.
It was a heavy weight on my mind, knowing that this was happening and I
was the only one in the whole world that knew the truth."

Captain Norris nodded. "I trust that you are feeling all right now?"

"Of course."

"We'd better get you to a doctor, Mr. Bronson. Those wrists look
inflamed."

Bronson looked down at them. "Now that this affair is in the hands of
authority," he said, "I think I can take time off to see a doctor."

"We'll take you to our doctor," said Captain Norris.

"I have my own," said Bronson.

"We--insist!"

"But--"

Norris smiled genially. "You'll like our doctor," he said. "He's such a
nice congenial fellow. Everybody likes him. Now--"

"What is this?" demanded Bronson.

"Take it easy," said the captain, "it's just routine. Everybody who
gets hurt in the course of committing a crime or being victimized
in such is always treated by the official medical department. Just
a matter of establishing legal medical evidence, that's all. Now
relax, Mr. Bronson, and come along. I'll have the boys take you to the
hospital."

"Hos--?"

"Routine. The doctor works for us, Mr. Bronson. Therefore he has no
office hours. Logical?"

Joe and Eddie treated Ed Bronson to a wild ride through the city
streets with the siren on full. They slid to a stop in front of a
squat, dirty limestone building and they escorted him in--convoyed him
in, to be exact, for one went in front and one followed up the rear.

"I am Doctor Mason," said a white-clad man, meeting them in the
corridor of the building. "Captain Norris told me you'd be coming."

"Just abraded skin, doctor," said Ed, showing the doctor his wrists.

"We'll take care of that instanter," smiled Doctor Mason. "Meanwhile,
what's this tale you were telling Norris? Something about hearing
voices? Threatening voices?"

Bronson recoiled a bit.

"Now, relax," said Mason.

"Do you think I'm crazy?" asked Bronson sharply.

"Of course not. You're not crazy, my boy. Just tell me--"

"You--"

"My friend, the symptoms of paranoia are simple and easy to determine.
The hushed voices, in the earlier stages, merely talk about the victim.
In a later stage the voices threaten. In still a later state the hushed
voices take physical being and all too often it is someone entirely
innocent of any malice.

"Now this tale of people from another world, Mr. Bronson, must be faced
for what it is. You are not crazy, my boy. Merely ill--no worse than a
bad cold or influenza, for instance. But you are ill and you must be
treated."

"Treated?" exploded Bronson angrily. "Treated--for an imagined mental
ailment when the earth itself is in danger of being invaded?"

"The earth is not in danger," said the psychiatrist firmly. "And--"

"I will not be--"

"Violent, too," said Mason with a solemn shake of his head. "Normally,
we try to gain the patient's confidence. But in advanced cases of
paranoia, they will resent even altruism. Everything is suspected of
plot. Now, Mr. Bronson, whether you believe that this is for your own
good or not, you're coming with me. Will you come quietly or shall I
have some orderlies bring you?"

Bronson shook his head and turned to go. He walked into the waiting
arms of Joe and Eddie, who subdued him easily because they were well
trained in the art of handling men. Mason waved them on, and Bronson
walked with both arms in hammerlock behind him. He could either walk or
have both arms dislocated at the shoulder.

Mason spoke to the policemen. "The thing that makes psychiatry tough
is that the patient likes himself the way he is--just as all men do,
really--and resents bitterly any suggestion that his personality be
changed."

"What do you intend to do?" asked Joe.

"Electro-therapy," said the doctor in a decisive tone.

Bronson writhed in both physical and mental anguish. He, the only
man on earth that realized the danger, being dog-walked into a
cell--accused of the crime of warning the earth of its fate!
Outnumbered, overpowered and disbelieved!




                               CHAPTER V

                             _Head Start_


Leader Kingston shook his head. "Bronson is dangerous to us," he said.

Maddox nodded. "If his tale is believed Earth One will arm against
invasion."

"Correct. Properly to save us trouble the invasion must take place
against small armed odds. Otherwise, instead of our finding a world
decimated and wearied by war, we'll find a world with its wits
sharpened and its anger high."

Maddox turned the focus knob to readjust the image that had fuzzed a
bit because of a varying line voltage. He pointed to Bronson's image,
struggling against the policemen.

"He's in a fix right now," he said.

Kingston nodded dubiously. "But he'll not remain there," he said.
"Bronson is suspected of being paranoid right now. Any man coming to
high authority with such an unbelievable tale of alien entities or
time-divided worlds would be suspected of insanity. But before anybody
tries to cure him, they will give him their most extensive tests to
prove or disprove his sanity.

"It is a fundamental principle that no man need be subjected to
treatments or cure that needs them not. It is a violation of human
integrity to attempt to cure a man of delusions who has no instability.
Therefore they will apply the last word in checks and tests and
discover that Bronson is not insane.

"Once they discover his stability they will admit the shadow of a
doubt. Only the completely insane will not admit their error or
possibility of error. An honestly sane man will admit--however
grudgingly--the possibility of anything, even to alien entities and
split time-continua."

"Then--?"

"Then let them listen but once to his flanged-up space resonator.
His is a fine spectacle, you admit--about as neat and as efficient
as the First Radio Receiver. On such, many people are making many
transmissions of all sorts. Obviously, Maddox, the state of the art
is higher than the technical efficiency of Bronson's gadget which to
men of science will mean that there is something to Bronson's story.
Follow?"

Maddox nodded. "The men who know will have sufficient knowledge to
evaluate the negative evidence. They know of no such technique."

"Exactly," nodded Kingston. "Precisely. This we must stop!"

"This we can stop," said Maddox.

"How?" demanded Kingston sharply.

Maddox made a wry grin. "Watch," he said. He turned to the kinescope
screen once more and watched Ed Bronson prowling the lonely cell....

For the thirtieth time, Ed Bronson paced his tiny cell. It was
hopeless. Everything mobile was too large and soft to use as tool or
weapon--for either egress or self-destruction. His clothing had been
removed forcibly and Ed Bronson seethed angrily, dressed in only his
skin.

He realized that he had been a fool. Had he been less violent he might
not be so well incarcerated. He should have known that no amount of
physical struggle would get him anything. After all he had striven
against greater numbers of men who were all trained in the art of
handling men possessed of the strength of the insane.

Bronson had only the strength of the indignant, which was far from the
unreasonable power of the insane. With the use of a small amount of
foresight, Ed Bronson knew that he might have been in a room less bare,
perhaps one in which the door had not been bolted, barred and locked.

Bronson, it must be told, was not aware of the fact that the men who
held him were also used to prisoners possessed of the cunning of the
insane. No amount of cajolery, honest protest, supine acquiescence or
willing aid would have made them do other than lock, bolt and bar his
door.

What Bronson needed was a friend....

Maddox smiled with grim humor. "We cannot silence him now."

Kingston nodded, his face clearing of its slight frown. "Good man," he
breathed.

"Nor," said Maddox, looking at the cell depicted on the kinescope tube,
"can we aid him to escape."

"To kill him inside of that room would most certainly prove to them
that enough of his tale is true to make them suspicious. Even to open
that room and let him out will prove to them that there is more than
the agency of a single man at work."

"In other, terser words," grunted Maddox, "he has placed himself in a
position where he has life insurance--only in the name of Earth Three."

"And you see to it that he stays alive, suspect and helpless!" snapped
Kingston.

"That I shall do," nodded Maddox. "That I shall do!"

"Unless, of course, he is threatened by death with both killer and
motive indigenous--or apparently so--to Earth One."

       *       *       *       *       *

Peter Moray turned to Virginia Carlson and shook his head. "Won't
work," he said.

"Why not?" she asked.

Moray explained. His explanation was almost identical to that of
Kingston and Maddox. To hurl a man into an asylum for hallucination is
all well and good. To protect society, for any number of reasons all
directed at the protection of society, from the maniac or to protect
the maniac from society is sound.

Yet no man can be incarcerated very long if he is sane and wants to get
out. It is as difficult for a sane man to fake insanity as it is for an
insane man to fake insanity.

"So what do we do now?" asked Virginia.

"We should have eliminated him at once," snapped Moray. "Confound it, I
was sleeping. I thought he might be useful."

"You were wrong," she said. "It seems to me that we might as well give
him the works. I'll go down and see that he is taken care of."

       *       *       *       *       *

Peter Moray nodded. Bronson had seen Moray but had never seen Virginia.
In fact, Bronson knew only Virginia's last name. That was a help.
Also, Virginia was a very good looking young woman and the power of
a beautiful woman who speaks with certainty is great. She was also a
capable calculator and could plan her campaign as she went along. Moray
nodded, and Virginia headed for the asylum.

In her handbag, Virginia carried a small automatic. Bronson was a
threat. The threat must be eliminated. The lover's quarrel perhaps or,
better, he was in the asylum for paranoia. Why not have him attack her?
Self-defense is a good alibi and her story would be strengthened by the
doctor's decision. She smiled cryptically.

Supposing she were convicted of murder in the first degree and
sentenced to the gas chamber? By the time the trial came to its end,
the invasion would be ready and the first act of the men of Earth Two
would be to rescue Virginia from her cell. She had everything to gain,
nothing to lose by acting--and there was an entire world dependent upon
her.

Confidently Virginia opened the door of Bronson's house and headed down
the street. It was her first venture outside along the ways of Earth
One.

In the morning, from her home, there were two lights in the sky, one a
disc rising in the east, one a blinding glare that rendered the disc
ineffective. Albuquerque never really knew night nor had it during the
course of Virginia Carlson's life. Here, however, there was but the
shining sun and Virginia found the streets a bit sheltered, shadowed,
compared to the streets of her home.

But--the thought came to her--this was her home! She walked along the
same street as the one she lived on. She looked across the street from
Bronson's front steps and saw her own number there. It was a different
house but none the less it was her number. It was sandwiched between
two other houses whose outlines and architecture she recognized.

The street light was there, recognizable, though this one was not the
remaining remnant of the pre-Alamogordo era. The one in her Albuquerque
had not been used in the course of her life, though it had not been
removed.

The street-car line was still on the next corner, and the cars that ran
might have been the same--could they have been? Interested, Virginia
waited until one came along and, though she could not be certain, it
seemed the same.

It was a matter of interest to find out whether the same cars plied
the same tracks in two different time streams. This seemed at once
paradoxical and quite possible, for Virginia had seen both her own
street address with a new house on the location, and the houses on
either side which were older than Alamogordo and recognizable.

Virginia walked on slowly, a number of things running through her mind.
Even though the city seemed the same, there was quite a difference. The
population was thick here, not thinned out by radiation-sterility. The
people were smiling and unafraid. On no face was that look of stark
wonder and fear that never left the faces of the people of Earth Two
even though they had been born and bred under the blinding light of the
Alamogordo Blow-up.

Nor were there the mutants.

That was what made the most difference. In her life and counted among
her friends were strange biological forms, often unhuman. There was,
for instance, a fellow called Thomas Lincoln whose eyes grew on stalks
and was quite a man at work on large machinery because he could see
deep within the machine without having to rely on mirrors or the sense
of touch.

His eyes, when extended, could either assume the proper distance for
perspective, could narrow or widen the angle of perspective--and his
mind, trained over the years, made due allowance so that he knew and
accepted these differences.

There was Greene, the man whose hands had a palm on either side and
whose fingers could bend to make a fist on either the inside or the
outside of the arm. This might seem good, but it presented a lack of
firmness. Greene's hands were far weaker than Harrison's, whose hands
had but three fingers with twin thumbs on either side, making the hand
symmetrical.

       *       *       *       *       *

Her girl-friend, Edna, secreted pure metal instead of pigment and
her skin and hair had a metallic sheen that was rather beautiful.
In a strong light, Edna's skin and hair were almost luminous,
like iridescent paint. There was the fellow that lived on the
corner--Virginia never knew his name--who had a double knee and elbow.
This made for physical instability.

There were others. Some were interesting from functional standpoints,
some were interesting from banal standpoints. Others were just horrible
and many were viciously dangerous. But many of them were her friends.
Virginia had grown up without one iota of prejudice regarding the shape
of a man's body, the color of his skin, or the nationality of his
father. For in a life where few men were as simply mutated as to have a
mere skin coloration, all of the former prejudices were so minor in the
face of the acceptance of the more violent differences that to accept
the latter meant complete disregard of the former.

This world contrasted sharply with Virginia's world. To see people
walking freely in the streets, pursuing their normal life, was
puzzling. Virginia, born in the glare of Alamogordo, under a culture
that had devoted itself completely to one main idea or to the secondary
or tertiary support of those who pursued that idea, this freedom was
inexplicable.

In Virginia's world, there were two classes of people--those who worked
directly on the problem of saving their world in one way or another and
those who worked to support those who worked on the problem. Farmers
produced so much, by law. Book dealers sold so many kinds of books,
produced by printers and publishers who did exactly what was needed and
no more. Entertainment and relaxation was far from spontaneous.

People did not collect at random and throw a party on the spur of the
moment nor could one decide to go out and buy a magazine and read it
instead of cleaning out the basement. Though it was admitted as such,
it was an emergency dictatorship, with the Alamogordo Blow-up as main
dictator. Regulation was the order of the years.

Earth One was, to Virginia, completely unregulated. Women walked along
the streets idly, looking in windows and smiling at men. The sign "Bar"
intrigued Virginia. She was no stranger to the potable qualities of
alcohol, but the concept of an establishment directed at the sole idea
of selling drinks had not occurred to her.

This--recall--was Virginia's first experience in living in a world not
harassed by fear.

She paused at a window showing an assortment of dresses on well-made
forms. In her world, Virginia was a good-looking woman and dressed as
well as the next.

In contrast to a world where much time and energy was directed at
luxury instead of the sheer, vicious necessity driven of hope and
despair--in a world where the accolade of young womanhood is to be
permitted her first trip to mother's beauty salon and thereafter make
obeisance regularly--Virginia, a beauty in her own world, knew that
here she was as conspicuous as a tall telephone pole in a snowbound
prairie.

She knew because the window before which she stood reflected her own
hand-made dress against the luxurious mannequin inside the window.

Moray had been correct in his assumption that a beautiful woman could
get away with more than a plain one. His only mistake was in not
judging alien demands for grooming. And yet it was not a true mistake.
It was rooted in sheer ignorance.

Virginia wondered. Money? Coinage does not change very often. But the
few coins she had in her bag would not cover the two figures to the
left of the decimal point--iffing and providing that they were still
good.

There was, on her right hand, her mother's diamond. On her left wrist
was a wristwatch of quite ancient vintage--Virginia automatically
called it "Pre-Blast"--which might bring a few dollars.

Virginia turned from the window and went across the street to a
pawnshop. She emerged with a handful of greenbacks, re-crossed the
street and entered the ladies' shop. With satisfaction Virginia noted
a beautician's place next door and, though rather questioning of the
nefarious arts that might go on behind the curtains, Virginia was
determined to compete with her contemporary girl-friends on an even
basis--perhaps with a fair head start!




                              CHAPTER VI

                          _Sprung by the Foe_


John Cauldron made contact with Peter Moray shortly after Virginia had
gone. Moray, busy with the details at hand, had not given much time to
thinking out the course of the future. Besides, it was Moray's business
to act upon orders from above. His was not the planner's lot.

"What's cooking?" he asked Cauldron.

"We're putting on a security silence on the space resonators," replied
Cauldron.

"Why?"

"Whether they think Bronson insane or not, whether he lives or dies, we
must see that there are as many bits of radioisotopic phosphor in Earth
One as possible."

"Yes, but--"

"Bronson may be judged insane. However, give him a chance and he will
demonstrate the space resonator. If he should pick up an Earth Two
broadcast or even a molecular pattern it will lend weight to his tale.
On the other hand, Bronson will be given credit--sane or otherwise--for
the invention of a new level of communication.

"When it becomes known that gross matter can be shipped across space
with the same scientific concept people will rush madly to develop and
build delivery sets."

"I get it."

"Sure," replied Cauldron. "It's easy enough. Tell Virginia--"

"She's gone already. She left to take care of Bronson."

"Oh blast! Look, Moray, how are people dressed there?"

"Why--I wouldn't know. Bronson was in pajamas when I intercepted him
and it's just barely morning now. I've not really been out yet."

"You should have taken time to get Virginia fixed up as close to one of
the women of this world as possible."

"Why?"

"Because she'll be less conspicuous," said Bronson. "If they get to
peering into Bronson's mind they'll come to the conclusion that he
isn't as mad as his tale sounds. Give them one overly-conspicuous
character to look at and they will definitely begin to think loud
thoughts."

"Well, why shouldn't Virginia get along?" demanded Moray.

"You're a young squirt," snapped Cauldron shortly. "You weren't around
before the blow-up. You haven't the vaguest idea of how much time and
hard money was spent by women on the luxury of appearing beautiful.
That has been curtailed on Earth Two by necessity and emergency. But
I'll bet a tall hat that they are still shelling out plenty there. Is
there a telephone book handy?"

"Yeah," said Moray.

"Then crack it to the classified section and tell me how many pages
there are of beauty shops, beauty salons, beauticians, or whatever
they're called."

Silence ensued for several minutes and then Peter Moray returned and
gave Cauldron the answer.

"You see?" replied Cauldron. "You have no idea of how life is lived
when there is no cause for fear."

"So--"

"So I'd feel better if Virginia were heading for that place in
something better than a hand-made dress of reclaimed cloth, a self-done
hairdo and flat-heeled slippers. Besides," he chuckled wryly, "it would
help her morale no end."

Harry Maddox turned from the hapless spectacle of Ed Bronson and
shrugged. "He's safe," he said. "Now what?..."

       *       *       *       *       *

"They've gone into a security silence," said Kingston. "As we
expected."

"Then our friend Bronson is no longer needed?"

"Nope. They'll get along without him, now. What worries me is that the
psychiatrist may get to work on Bronson long enough to establish a
reasonable doubt in their minds."

"Even so," said Maddox thoughtfully, "we're stuck. Supposing we were
to kill him? It's obviously impossible in that room. It is equally
impossible for him to escape nor can we arrange it."

"What we need is a person who might be quite willing to murder Bronson
in cold blood for the sake of murder itself--or even better, for some
mundane motive."

"What about the characters from Earth Two?" suggested Maddox.

"Let's find 'em," snapped Kingston, apparently struck with an idea.

Maddox had little trouble in locating Moray. He looked in on Peter
Moray for a moment, and then went in search of Virginia. Virginia,
apparently, had disappeared.

It was quite impossible to search every possible place in Albuquerque
for a glimpse of Virginia and, after covering the pathway to and from
Bronson's cottage to the police station and thence to the police
hospital, Maddox gave up and returned to Moray, who had stopped
speaking to Cauldron. As Moray turned away from the equipment, the
telephone rang, and he went to it, wondering.

Moray lifted the phone and said, gingerly, "Yes? This is the Brons--"

"Moray! This is Virginia. I'm going to dig Bronson out of the clink and
bring him home. You hide or at least lie low. Follow?"

"Where are you?"

Virginia named an address.

Kingston snapped, "Get that address--quick. Know where it is?"

"Heck," drawled Maddox insolently, "This is the same Albuquerque. Sure
I know the address."

The video screen showed a blur, and settled on the showroom of a
ladies' apparel shop. Virginia was just hanging up the telephone and
Maddox whistled.

"Knockout," he said succinctly.

"She got the works," grinned Kingston. "Thanks to her we can watch."

"Well," said Maddox thoughtfully, "there goes your party with murderous
intent, and quite worldly too."

Kingston nodded. "That automatic in her bag isn't an unaccustomed
weapon," he said thoughtfully. "And she can and will claim attack. Self
defense...."

Clad in a printed silk that graced her svelte body caressingly, with
the sheerest of hose, the seams of which ran die-true down from the
hem of her dress to her sandal-shod, tiny feet, Virginia Carlson of
Earth Two was well on her way to being the most fetching woman in three
worlds. Her hair had been coiffed to perfection and her face had been
made up by an expert.

Virginia looked soft and sweet and perfect. She was a sight that made
men turn to watch but not to whistle because she radiated some quality
that rendered the wolf-whistle a definite insult.

Then, patting the automatic confidently, Virginia turned down along the
street once more and headed for the police hospital. Though she could
not know it, the plane of focus of the video resonator followed her.
Maddox and Kingston were watching her as she went.

"Once this is finished," thought Virginia, "I shall enjoy living like
this!"

Her feet, unaccustomed to dancing, did a pointless little step. Her
eyes sparkled, iris wide even in the morning sunshine, for Earth One
had no eternal light in the sky to keep a dazzling brightness day and
night. She pirouetted once and the sleek silk frock whirled and clung
to her legs. As she stopped, the weight of the automatic in her bag hit
her and reminded her of a job to be done before all this could be hers.

Bronson must be stopped--somehow!

Virginia knew how.

With a fetching smile on her face Virginia entered the police hospital
and asked for the police physician. Doctor Mason came and was a bit set
back by the obviously high quality of his caller.

"You're--?"

"Virginia Wells. I'm a friend of Mr. Bronson."

"Indeed? A peculiar case, Miss Wells," he observed gravely.

"Not at all," she said with a smile. "Mr. Bronson, as a hobby, has
been writing fiction and we got into an argument as to whether high
authority could hear a rather bizarre tale without thinking the story
teller was insane. I won."

"So that's it," grunted Doctor Mason. "He sounded sincere enough to me."

Virginia shrugged shapely shoulders and hurled at him the dazzle of
her smile. "After all," she said in an entrancing contralto, "he is a
successful author even though he doesn't work at it one hundred percent
of the time. He should be able to concoct a story that would hold
water, and he should be convincing. Why, that's his business!"

"Um."

Mason left the office for a moment and came back with Bronson at his
heels--dressed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Virginia gave Bronson a warning look and then laughed at him. "Like
spending the night in the clink, Ed?" she asked brightly.

"No!" he snapped.

"You needn't have," she said with a smile. "All you had to do was tell
them the truth. Why, they'd have thrown Orson Welles into jail for the
Martian Invasion if he hadn't been famous."

Bronson started. The Orson Welles affair had taken place a long time
ago--before either of them were born, in fact. This rather glorious
girl was trying to tell him something.

"Yeah," he drawled, stalling for time.

"All right, so you lost," she told him. "And now, if you don't have to
stay here for playing pranks, we can go on home and write it up."

Bronson looked at Mason. Mason shrugged. "What's the pitch?" he
asked. "As for me, no--we don't want you though I'd like to have you
reprimanded for wasting time."

"Come to think of it, Doctor Mason, how should a man try to tell high
authority of some impending form of outrageous doom?" asked Virginia.

"Why--" stammered Doctor Mason, "I--"

"Yes," snapped Bronson angrily. "Tell us!"

"Why?"

"Because," said Virginia, sweetly, "some day someone is really going
to come up with invaders from outer space or some other unbelievable
little item and, while the big bright brass is psychoanalyzing the
discoverer, the invasion or the doom will take place."

"Why--I'm--"

"Forget it, Mason," said Bronson. Then, because he was completely
unaware of his visitor's name or anything else about her save that she
knew something that prompted her to aid him, Bronson turned to the girl
and held out an elbow.

"May I escort you home, Madame Pompadour?"

Virginia smiled at him with exaggerated enticement. "Only if you want
to be Benjamin Franklin, dear."

Doctor Mason stood up and hurled the door open angrily. "Get the devil
out of here!" he snapped. He was still looking for a fine vocabulary
when they left. Once outside and on the street beyond, Ed Bronson
paused.

"Now," he said seriously, "what in the name of eternal sin is this?"

"I had to get you out of there," she said. "I'm glad you are sharp
enough to follow suit."

"You can be glad that Mason did not choose to question me about you,"
snapped Bronson. "I'd have denied you deeply."

"All a part of your tale to convince," she smiled. "I'd have forced it
into the open--forced Mason to let us meet. Then we'd make out."

"Fine, fine," he said with a bitter grin. "Just tell me what the score
is right now."

"I happen to know that you are right," she told him.

"But--"

She nodded. She explained at length that she had been tinkering in her
cellar and had come in with something that had permitted her to hear
his half of the initial discussion with the girl named Carlson.

She paused at that point and grinned at him. "Just to keep the record
clear," she said, "I'm Virginia Wells."

"Well, Miss Wells, I'm grateful. But what does a girl like you find
interesting in tinkering in the cellar?"

"You call me Virginia like everybody else," she told him. "As for
tinkering in the cellars, when has a woman's appeal anything to do with
the liking for science--and furthermore I might even resent the phrase
'like you' that was hurled at me. Do you think anybody that looks like
this must necessarily be completely vacant above the ears?"

Bronson smiled. "Not every girl," he said with a sour smile. "But the
percentage assays high."

Virginia took a deep breath. Thin though her story was, he'd accepted
it for the nonce.

"Where do we go from here?" he asked. "I want to reason this thing out."

Virginia smiled tolerantly. "My equipment isn't very good," she said.
"I'd like to see yours."

Bronson smiled. For hours he had been itching to show someone the
equipment and this was his chance. He was going to take the opportunity
regardless of where the chance came. Virginia had known that too!

The girl tucked a slender hand into the crook of his elbow. "Let's go,"
she said with a bright smile.

Bronson nodded and they started toward his home.

He walked easily, she thought, neither too fast nor too slowly. His
stride seemed to coincide with hers so that the periods of out-of-step
walking were minimized. They were not nonexistent, for Ed Bronson was
a tall, long-legged man and, though Virginia's legs were long and
slender, she was not so tall as Ed Bronson by seven inches.

"I might suggest," said Bronson thoughtfully, "that we can do a bit of
talking while we collect us some lunch. Me--I'm hungry."

Virginia paused. Visiting a restaurant was another thing that
was seldom done on Earth Two, excepting by those who found it
essential. This she viewed as another luxury and she wanted to try
it. On the other hand, she had too thin a story prepared regarding
her 'experiments' with the space-resonant crystals of radioisotopic
phosphor, of her listening to Bronson and his subsequent rescue from
the asylum.

Yet--Virginia shrugged slightly--she could probably handle this.
Besides, she could learn more of Earth One were she to visit with
Bronson.

Virginia nodded and smiled at him. Bronson paused in mid-stride and
turned toward a small restaurant he knew. Inwardly he chuckled to
himself. It was not always that a woman rescuer, fellow scientist and
friend-indeed was so very delectable. Bronson was proud to have such a
woman in his company.




                              CHAPTER VII

                          _Transfer Arranged_


The automatic computer in the laboratory of atomic physics at the New
Mexico University on Earth Three was a vast thing that encompassed many
acres of wiring, tubes and memory-storage circuits.

It had been working silently--save for an occasional click--for an
hour, which was a pointed commentary on the depth of the problem
presented to it, since its usual time of operation was startling in its
brevity. It was, without a doubt, the great-great-grandfather of all
automatic computers and even it was forced to mull over the problem.

Leader Kingston and Harry Maddox lounged before the massive control
board, smoking and watching Virginia and Bronson on a small
remote-presentation kinescope.

Finally the machine emitted a series of typewriter-like clicks and a
sheet of paper emerged from the slot. It bore a complex equation that
Maddox took and pored over.

Kingston waited quietly, for he knew that Maddox was far more capable
than he at interpreting the equations. Any interference would interrupt
Maddox, ruin his train of thought and require more time in the long run.

Finally Maddox looked up and smiled.

"It seems so," he said.

"There is no definite proof?" demanded Kingston.

"Time and the future are both based upon the laws of probability,"
replied Maddox. "That these three worlds do exist side by side by side
in time is certain--that they might have existed at any time before
they did start was a matter of probability. Anything is probable, you
know. That we live is a most certain probability, yet that we will
continue to live is less certain."

"You're talking in circles," snapped Kingston. "Get to the point!"

"Sorry, I must sound vague. You see, Leader, I've been thinking about
this for some time and therefore I am inclined to think over the
well-worn thought-trails swiftly and in considerable elision. However,
according to this equation, the fact is this. The spatial continuum is
strained by the unnatural presence of three congruent pathways through
the present time.

"As we know, only the most probable of these will continue to exist.
That--unfortunately--is Earth One. The Alamogordo experiment on Earth
One was the most probable, of course. Obviously Earth Two is destined
to die soon, leaving but Earths One and Three.

"But," continued Maddox thoughtfully, "we have posed the problem and
the machine here reasons that we are correct."

"Then we need not undergo all the strife in order to survive!"

"Obviously not. Once the pathways through time are no longer strained
by multiple existences the strain will cease. In other words, once
we--Earth Three--are the only true survivor the strain will cease and
there will be no fear of our demise."

"Then all we need do is to eliminate One and Two--and then," Kingston
grinned, "Earth Three becomes the only one?"

"Three becomes One," nodded Maddox. "Now--"

"Now we figure out a means of destroying Earth One utterly."

"Simple," said Maddox. "All we need do is to rotate a bit of the core
of the Alamogordo Blow-up from Earth Two to Earth One."

"Might be less simple than we think," said Kingston. "Remember that the
fission train in the earth itself is indigenous to Earth Two. Since it
did not happen on Earth One is there any reason to suppose that the
earth of Earth One will support an atomic fire?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Maddox shook his head. "When the bomb was tried--I nearly said 'went
off' but it didn't here--the temporal strain broke into three paths,"
said Maddox. "The three important possibilities took place--obviously
because there was a huge question as to which of the three
possibilities would emerge as the successful outcome of the affair."

"I'm no believer in the Great Destiny," said Kingston.

"Nor am I," said Maddox. "Yet it is true that the most fit do survive.
Obviously, Earth Two and its atomic fire is far from the most fit.
Earth One has dropped into a lulled luxury-loving place where the
serious facets of life are ignored. They are unprepared to enter any
form of strife to survive. We--Earth Three--have developed ourselves
and our science greatly and in any strife we are best fitted to
survive!"

"All right, it sounds logical," snapped Kingston. "But how do we prove
it without arousing suspicion?"

"We can rotate a bit of the core of the Earth Two atomic fire to this
earth," said Maddox. "Once we establish the atomically-inflammable
qualities of Earth Three, we can safely assume that Earth One will
be the same. Remember," said Maddox with a grin, "on Earth Three the
Alamogordo Bomb was a dud--it didn't even fire!"

"And then what?" sneered Kingston. "It seems to me that your suggestion
is the beginning of the end."

"Not at all. Once we establish the possibility beyond a doubt, we can
so very easily rotate the hunk of atomic fire back into Earth Two
again."

Kingston thought for a moment. Then he nodded. "We must move lightning
fast," he said sharply. "Because I will hazard a bet that Earth Two
considered the idea of getting rid of their atomic fire by sending it
through the space resonator. And rejected it because their own Earth
Two was badly treated by the original fire. After all, there's no use
in staying with a partly ruined, semi-radioactive Earth Two when Earth
One, complete and unharmed, lies like a ripe apple for them to pluck."

Maddox nodded. "It will have to be quick," he said. "For either one of
them is quite capable of turning the stuff this way once they suspect."

Kingston turned to the kinescope screen and scowled at Virginia and
Bronson.

"There," he said, "are two of the four or five people who have within
their grasp the truth of the matter--and they are the two who have
sufficient imagination to reason it out!"

"And once she kills him that will leave only her!"

Maddox nodded idly and began to set up equipment, saying, "No time like
the present."

"For what?"

"I'm interested in knowing whether the atomic fire will burn Earth
Three as well as Earth Two."

Kingston shrugged. "Y'know," he said quietly, "if it does ruin Earth
Three nothing says that you and I can't pass over ourselves anyway."

Maddox smiled. "Indubitably," he agreed dryly. It was quite obvious
that Leader Kingston had given him nothing new in ideas.

       *       *       *       *       *

Unlike the slow space resonator of Earth Two, the ones used on Earth
Three went with lightning swiftness. They were smaller, more efficient,
showed a deeper grasp of the art and the principles involved. Maddox
picked his collection of equipment up and headed for the door.

"What are you going to use for a focal volume?" demanded Kingston. "You
have no focal point."

"Won't need one," smiled Maddox. "That's a true atomic flame. As in the
sun there will be minute traces of all elements contained therein and
all we need is a trace. For like the sun, Earth Two's atomic flame is
both building up and tearing down all elements possible. Come on--I'll
prove my point."

For a brief time, Harry Maddox drove like a maniac through the air in
his atom-powered speedster. Leaving behind it the whistling scream of
its supersonic passage from Albuquerque to Alamogordo, the fleet craft
made the passage in minutes. At the site of the original, Maddox landed.

There on the desert was the steel tower that had held the Alamogordo
Bomb before its trial. On Earth One there was but a shallow depression
of broken green--glazed sand. On Earth Two there burned a pillar of
atomic fire for miles in radius from this very spot. Here Maddox set up
his space resonator.

Then, sensibly, he urged Kingston back into the speedster and raced
away, ten, fifteen miles. Then in his speedster Maddox pressed a button.

Behind them on the desert a burst of intolerable light, like a million
suns compressed into a minute sphere, cast its instantaneous glare
across the face of the earth. Like an expanding hemisphere of pure
sun-flame, it dinned against the very substance of space and hurled its
terrible energy outward.

Thunder came then and the still-intolerably bright explosion flashed
in multicolored bursts as the shock wave started to rise. Up and up
and up into the stratosphere rose the towering ice-cap to roll into a
cauliflower shape.

And then up through this bursting-white cloud there darted another
pillar of sheer flame-energy, to rise above the first and to go on up
into the very upper reaches of the atmosphere.

Standing aghast, Kingston and Maddox watched the scene with horror.
Minutes passed before they could speak, and then it was with bitter
fear.

Maddox pointed to the ground below the towering pillar of cooling hell.
There was a sunlike flame there, burning more brightly by the second.
The ground rumbled faintly and, upon the ground at their feet, two
shadows were cast which added to the complete unearthliness of the
scene.

"Now?" demanded Kingston.

"Not now," growled Maddox angrily. "Our equipment was utterly destroyed
in that blast."

"Then we lost?"

"No. All we need do is to return and prepare a radio-controlled
speedster to carry another space resonator into the near-scene. Then we
can send that pillar of hell back where it came from."

"Think you'll have any trouble?" worried Kingston.

"Nope," said Maddox. "I've been thinking about this for some time. We
can do it!"

"Then how are we going to transfer a good bit of that flame to Earth
One?"

"I won't mind going over," said Maddox. "I'll see to it that Earth One
gets a goodly dose. In fact, I think it might be a good idea to set
up a relay system to bring bits of it through and send to other parts
of the earth at one time. We can set atomic fires all over Earth One
within a matter of seconds."

"Might restart several on Earth Two also," suggested Kingston. "Nothing
like speeding things up a bit."

Maddox nodded, but there was a worried frown on his face. "There's
one thing I don't relish," he said. "So far as we know, the only bit
of radioisotopic phosphor containing the resonant element lies in the
laboratory of Ed Bronson on Earth One."

"That's your only doorway?"

"To Earth One, yes."

"Then--"

"Then we return to our vantage point and watch. Sooner or later they
will leave that set-up unguarded and we can get through to place other
focal elements at a safer place on Earth One."

"Well," smiled Kingston, "once Virginia Carlson gets rid of Ed Bronson
they must sooner or later leave that place unguarded and we can break
in. Let's go and wait."

"And also prepare the drone to return that pillar of hell back to Earth
Two," said Maddox with a bit of mild concern.




                             CHAPTER VIII

                            _Halfway Mark_


Unmindful of his danger--both immediate and future--Ed Bronson sat and
watched Virginia with admiration. Their initial talk had been sketchy.
All Virginia knew was that she had been working on equipment similar to
his and had heard the same things he had--including him.

Her information was less complete than his, for Virginia was not
equipped to tinker up a complete set of filters to tune out the
interferences, so she said. Only Bronson's voice came through clearly
enough to be understood. Yet she was aware of the danger and felt that
she must help.

And that was that so far as she was concerned. As to what track to
follow, Virginia professed ignorance. She suggested that they eat and
then go to Bronson's laboratory and work on the stuff.

"And what do we do about them?" he asked.

Virginia blinked. "You're certain it was they?"

"He told me so."

"Then there's just one."

"There may be more," objected Bronson. "Perhaps we should forget my
place and go to work on yours."

Virginia blinked inwardly at that one. Naturally, Virginia could not
take him to her place for she had none. There had to be some way.

"I suggest that you and I go in very quietly," she said. "If the house
is infested we'll go to my place. If it is clear, even temporarily, we
can go in and steal the phosphor."

"Better," grinned Bronson. "We can conceal it in a steel safe. I have a
hunch they can't get through it then."

"I wouldn't know," said Virginia. She did know, however, that Peter
Moray would not be in evidence since she was bringing Bronson back
with her. "But you have a good idea. It'll do them a lot of good to try
coming through if they end up in a steel box.

"Besides," she said thoughtfully, "it is better to try. I'd hate to
think of them coming through unguarded. We owe it to the earth to try
and stop them."

"That we do," nodded Bronson. Then he ceased to think about it since it
had been settled. He preferred to watch Virginia.

She was a beautiful girl--one of the most beautiful women that Bronson
had ever seen. That alone won his admiration. But what brought his real
commendation was her attitude. Bronson had known other beautiful women
before and most of them were inclined towards a selfish narcissism
because of the round of admiration they got from every male.

This gave them an egotistical attitude that repelled Bronson, for he
knew with some disdain that their attitude was born of the actions of
his own sex.

Virginia had none of this false sophistication. She was readily and
honestly pleased with things as they were and with Bronson's offerings.
To add to that Virginia was clever and intelligent and could, without
straining, discuss several subjects that the average beauty wouldn't
bother to strain her vapid mind on.

Bronson could not know it, of course, but Virginia's attitude was
mostly naiveté. Seldom before had she spent an hour in luxurious
surroundings with nothing to think about or to do but relax and enjoy
herself. Not that Virginia had forgotten her basic job--but at least
here was the offering of relaxation in an atmosphere completely devoid
of the constant gnawing fear.

The light in the sky was not there.

Then, too, Virginia was capable of pigeon-holing her mind. Though she
intended to eliminate this man as a factor in the safety of her world's
people she saw no reason why she should not enjoy herself first.
Looking about her in the restaurant she saw many other people enjoying
life. This itself was unlike Earth Two and it offered Virginia a point
for jealous desire. She wanted this kind of life-without-fear. And it
was within her grasp!

       *       *       *       *       *

In her world many were mutants that repelled the mind. Here there were
none. The man opposite her, who toyed with the silverware idly was a
fine specimen of humanity. The waiter, the cashier, the hat-check girl,
the major-domo, the customers--all were whole and healthy.

Virginia looked about her at the thickly peopled restaurant and
mentally compared it with a place in her own world. Idly she replaced
the elderly gentleman at the table opposite with a gnarled, seven
fingered monster--and the boy-girl couple beyond with a pair of
uglinesses.

The waiter instead of being well-dressed and polite was misshapen and
clad in remnants of a once-great civilization. Starch wasted on a
shirt, as well as the time wasted in preparing it, was unthought-of in
Earth Two. Few of the men in Earth Two would look so polished and at
ease in the formal trappings.

Bronson made motions to leave and Virginia arose to follow. From his
pocket he took money instead of a ration card and he left a generous
tip for the waiter. A smiling doorman opened the portal for them.

Once on the street Virginia was again impressed by the people. Then
there were the theatre on the corner, the stores and the shops selling
anything and everything that men and women would buy.

The automatic bumped Virginia's hip as her bag swung, and the contact
hurt--more than physically.

Walking beside this tall man Virginia considered the situation. In her
bag was the means of replacing the people she saw in this street with
a high percentage of misshapen bodies of her own world. To--eliminate
this scene of physical health and mental good-will with the warped
bodies and minds of her own world.

Virginia saw her own reflection in a shop window. She was shapely and
well-dressed. She knew that without egotism--it was obvious fact. She
was more like this world--fitted better into this scene than into the
world on which she had been born.

An age-old urge rose in her. She had shied away from marriage because
of fear and distaste. Too many of her friends she had seen in mental
agony because of mutant offspring. Now she was presented with at least
an opportunity of a life that would be normal. What had she on Earth
Two but unpleasant memories for all of her life?

Perhaps it seems a sudden change. Yet a mind suddenly shown a way
toward happiness will often swing as swift as a pendulum from one
attitude to the opposite. Perhaps the only reason that Virginia had
not followed many of Earth Two's people into the madness of fear was
because she had been born to the insoluble threat of the Alamogordo
Blow-up and had never been forced to change from freedom to fear.

Many another on Earth Two had seen the eternal flame and had gone mad,
knowing its threat. Virginia, born after it started, had never known
anything else. So now Virginia viewed a world built like her own, but
one devoid of fear and populated heavily with healthy, happy people.

Why go back? Why change this? She could blend very well with this
environment. Her woman's instinct told her that she could and by very
little trying.

There was but one great fear. This man who walked beside her knew the
facts of Earth Two. He also stood to learn about her. It presented
her with a quandary. To make her future secure he must be placed in a
position never to learn the truth. On the other hand she needed his
aid to forestall the invasion from Earth Two if she were to enjoy the
future of Earth One as she now saw it.

Virginia wondered whether she could work with Ed Bronson long enough to
give him the particulars of the space-resonant techniques--and still
keep him in the dark regarding her own part in it. Once the threat of
invasion was gone there was no doubt in Virginia's mind that she could
lose herself here on Earth One.

In fact, the proper thing to do was just that--tell him the truth and
she would be forever suspect.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then there was the other problem. She was supposed to have an
apartment, a house or something equipped with a basement in which to
work. He'd be wanting to see that sooner or later. How to forestall him
on that required thinking.

Once he knew that it required the presence of the proper elements in
the space-resonant series to effect the transfer of material, he would
demand the opportunity of sealing up her bit of the stuff in order to
forestall the invasion of the vanguard from Earth Two.

From a technical standpoint, Virginia knew that the operation of the
space-resonant science required the presence of the space-resonant
elements. Even though she knew nothing of Earth Three and its
highly advanced techniques which permitted the operation of a
view-and-voice-operated mechanism without the presence of the elements
in the area of transmission, Virginia was correct in her assumption
that no passage from one time-zone to the other was possible without
a critical mass of the ultra-rare transuranic elements in the
receptor-zone.

Having used the technique for many years Virginia and the rest in Earth
Two could be certain that the only critical mass of these rare elements
on Earth One was in Ed Bronson's laboratory.

So, the first thing was to protect herself, to isolate herself on Earth
One and to seal up forever the passageway. All Virginia had to do was
to break up Ed Bronson's mass into subcritical sizes--and then to keep
all other discrete bits of the space-resonant elements from being
collected for a period that surpassed the possible time required for
the final death of the ill-fated temporal division--the end of Earth
Two.

Impulsively, Virginia opened her bag and handed the automatic to
Bronson.

"Here," she whispered, "this may help--if they're still here!"

It was hours later. Bronson's re-entry into his home was careful and
stealthy but unproductive, for Peter Moray had gone back to Earth Two
to await developments. Virginia knew this and was prepared for the lack
of population in the Bronson home. Once the place was known to be free
of invaders Bronson relaxed.

"Me," he said with a yawn, "I'm tired."

"I don't suppose you got much sleep last night," smiled Virginia.

"Darned little," he agreed. "And I'll get less until we figure out
something to do with this equipment of mine. Obviously it does not
require energization to permit the effect."

"Why not seal the thing in a metal case of some sort?" suggested
Virginia.

"Think it might work?"

"Maybe. At best, if you shield it well and keep it canned up, you can
be certain that anybody that comes through will emerge in a dark,
confined place."

"Not necessarily," said Bronson. "Radio waves often disregard things
like shields and closed rooms. And, if I recall correctly, that feller
who came through and clipped me was parked out on the middle of the
floor some ten feet from the crystal."

"If you're tired," suggested Virginia, "why not take it easy? You take
a snooze and I'll keep watch. You'll think better once you've had a bit
of rest."

"But what will you do if--"

Virginia smiled. She went to Bronson and touched his hip pocket with
the back of her hand. Ed nodded and took the automatic out of the hip
pocket and handed it to her.

"I can't cover eight shots with the ace of spades," she said, hefting
the gun, "but I'd not miss an invader."

"I'd like to clip a few of them myself," grunted Bronson. "First I'm up
all night. Then I'm clipped by one of them after only a short few hours
sleep; then the trip to the asylum, and now home. Yes, Virginia, I've
had all too little sleep. You'll be all right?"

"Definitely," she told him. "From here on in, I'm unafraid--and in high
confidence."

"Wake me in three hours," he told her. She nodded.

He left, heading toward the bedroom. Virginia found a book and read it
quietly, keeping a weather eye on the space-resonant crystal in the
experimental kinescope set-up. A half hour later, Virginia put down her
book and tiptoed into Bronson's bedroom. He was sprawled on his back in
the deepest of slumber.

Virginia went back to his laboratory and began to work on his gear.
It was late afternoon when she finished, which was quick enough
considering what Virginia had accomplished. It was her field of
science, this space-resonant technique, and Ed Bronson's laboratory was
rather complete.

So simple, Virginia's plan. Setting a timer to reverse the equipment
after a pre-calculated time, Virginia composed herself on a chair and
waited. Again, her body faded bit by bit as she passed, molecule by
molecule, from Ed Bronson's laboratory. At a short interval beyond the
halfway point where Virginia's body sank into the floor, the machine
ceased its operation.

Wraithlike, half of her in each world, Virginia was physically
powerless. But she knew that her equipment was working. The window of
Ed Bronson's laboratory had a strange appearance.

It was not quite like the mixed-image impression received when viewing
different scenes simultaneously with the separate eyes. It was more
like viewing through a stereoscope, with one side taken in bright
sunlight and highly illuminated while the other photo had been taken
by moonlight. Also there had been years between the taking of the two
because things were not exactly the same.

Of course, Virginia was not viewing one scene with each eye. The
process of transmission was not a passage similar to walking through
the door. The molecular transfer took place at random, a molecule from
here, a molecule from there.

So Virginia viewed the scene in a truly indescribable state. Each eye
saw the same scenes--a mixed, foggy montage in poor register.

But the illumination in the afternoon sky was unmistakable as Virginia
looked at the window that existed simultaneously in two worlds. She
smiled to herself as the equipment in Ed Bronson's laboratory reversed
automatically and started to return her to Earth One.

Virginia had been halfway home. And her plan was halfway complete!




                              CHAPTER IX

                              _Ill Wind_


In the sky, high, high up--a stubby-winged drone circled above
Albuquerque thrice. Then it streaked away from the city and headed
toward Alamogordo. The pillar of fire was vicious and intolerably
bright and it silhouetted the fleet drone--though no one could stand to
watch the scene, regardless of the thickness of his eye-glasses.

To all intents and purposes the drone vanished.

But on the viewscreen in Harry Maddox's laboratory the pillar of fire
grew, expanded into the entire screen, covered it and made steering
ambiguous until Maddox dropped the nose of the fleet little craft so
that the field of view included the base of the atomic flame.

The drone arrowed on and on and then came to a machine-made landing a
few thousand feet from the base of the flame. Maddox worked swiftly
now, for the heat of that devilish fire would ruin the equipment in all
too short a time. The equipment went to work.

Then, like the snuffing of a candle flame, the scene went dark. The
pillar of fire disappeared and there was a thunderous roar as miles of
tortured air raced in to fill the vacuum created by the sudden absence
of intolerable heat.

The thunderings shook the city of Albuquerque and the buildings rattled.

In one of the homes Ed Bronson was shaken into wakefulness. He was
lying on the floor which was hard though not cold.

He awoke dully. He felt the floor and had a quick impression of having
fallen from bed. Grinning sheepishly, Ed Bronson stood up and turned.
There was no bed!

The thunderings diminished slowly and Bronson shook his head in wonder.
It had not been thunderstorm weather earlier this afternoon. But there
was no bed!

"_Virginia!_" he called, running from the room.

His house was empty of people. In fact his house was refurnished
completely. That fact he accepted dully, wondering what had happened
and why. It was too great a concept for him to grasp at once. He stared
dully at the strange rugs, chairs, appointments. He went into his
laboratory--

And found a complete nursery. In one corner was a crib but the infant
was missing. It had been used recently, for the bedding was warm--and a
bit damp.

Bronson's mind whirled. Strange--strange. But not too strange,
considering. If _they_ were capable of sending some of their cohorts
through the veil that separated the two worlds, it was equally possible
for them to reach forth and grab someone from the other world.

Bronson cursed angrily.

He left the house quickly because he knew that, regardless of how
he had come here, he was an interloper. Bronson assumed that any of
the enemy who might be reaching for him--probably to prevent his
forestalling of their efforts--would not merely slip him through the
barrier and let him run loose.

Whether something had gone awry in their transmission plans he did
not know, but he guessed that something had interfered because no man
attempting to grab an enemy would do other than to grab quickly and
keep him under supervision.

So Bronson left the house quickly.

He was an interloper--and, though helpless to do anything but run, he
was infinitely better off with his freedom than in capture, jail or,
more probably, death.

Killing him on his own world would bring about the rather complex
problem of disposing of the corpse. While this is possible, it is
difficult to dispose of such a high degree of absolute contraband in
a civilization with which you are not over-familiar. So some lucky
accident had brought Bronson into this ill-fated Earth Two in a
residence instead of the laboratory or military establishments of the
imminent invaders.

       *       *       *       *       *

Outside, Bronson knew that something was wrong. He wondered what it
was. It was vague, something that was missing from a mere sketchy
description but something rather important from a secondary--or was it
primary--viewpoint, something that did not jell.

It was late afternoon. The sun was setting in the west. But there was
no pillar of atomic fire in the sky!

The Miss Carlson of Earth Two had said that all of Albuquerque was
illuminated by the vastness of the pillar of incandescent flame that
reached from horizon to the sky. Where in the name of thunder--

The whirling madness spiraled in Bronson's mind with the never-ending
round of who, what, why, when and where. And driving that engine of
madness was the ever-present and ever-growing fear that the earth he
knew was threatened with death--while he could do nothing but stand by
and watch it die.

And join it....

The light disappeared like the snuffing of a candle, and Maddox turned
to Kingston with a grim smile. "That's that," he said.

Kingston nodded affably. "Now all we have to do is to complete our
plans."

Maddox shook his head. "Remember that the stuff in Bronson's laboratory
is the only supercritical mass on Earth One. We can see through, of
course, but without that focal point we cannot cross over." He turned
and left the drone-control room, walking down the corridor towards the
other laboratory with Kingston beside him. Kingston was silent for a
moment.

Then he nodded in self-satisfaction. "I'll send through a corps of
guards to protect it until we need it."

"Better yet," said Maddox, "send through a couple of technicians to
separate it into subcritical masses until we need it. Then we can
prevent Earth Two from crossing."

They turned the corner of the hallway and entered the original
laboratory. As they did so, Kingston caught the sight of the viewscreen
and stopped short, his jaw dropping. On the screen was the view of
Bronson's laboratory. Virginia was sitting idly in a chair watching the
equipment.

Her attitude was not one of complete relaxation, nor was it one of deep
intent. Maddox and Kingston knew at once that Virginia was waiting
while the equipment ran automatically.

Maddox leaped to the controls of his viewer and followed the cone of
energy from the crystal to Ed Bronson's bedroom. There he saw the
reason for the work. Ed Bronson's wraithlike body was in the last
stages of its disappearance from Earth One.

"So," snapped Maddox. "That takes care of him!"

"Rather clever, too," said Kingston, admiringly. "That's getting rid of
a body without fuss or bother or corpus delicti arising somewhere to
confront--My Lord! What's she doing?"

Virginia, having seen the equipment come to its end of operation, had
run into the bedroom to check on whether Bronson had been transmitted.
Maddox had followed her back to Bronson's laboratory and Virginia was
opening the tube. She removed the crystalline mass and carried it to
the toolbench. Here she placed it on a two-foot slab of mild steel used
as a surface plate and was reaching for a hammer with her right hand
while her left hand groped for the cold chisel.

Kingston's question was hypothetical. Both men knew what Virginia was
about to do.

"Quick!" snapped Kingston. "Stop her!"

"Check!" grunted Maddox, his hands leaping across the control panel.

From the crystal between chisel and surface plate came the beam of
invisible energy that enfolded Virginia in its grasp. Unlike the slow
process of her own machines, the highly efficient techniques of Earth
Three effected the transfer in a matter of milliseconds.

Virginia felt the wrench of a twisted spatial continuum, felt the
change as her body adjusted in level and knew briefly that somehow
something had gone terribly wrong. The scene before her eyes changed
like a flash-over in a moving picture and she faced Maddox and Kingston.

"No you don't," said Kingston roughly.

It was quite wrong. Her trained mind told her that in an instant.
Her first brief fear had been that someone from her own world had
interrupted her machinations and had grabbed her to prevent the
completion of her plans. That would have been quite logical.

But the time interval had been too short. That proved to Virginia that
it was not of her own world, for had there been any acceleration in the
transfer process, she would have been notified. It was--to her logical
mind--quite improbable that such an advance could have been made in the
space-resonant techniques in the course of the few short hours during
which she had been absent from her own laboratory.

Therefore, she reasoned, there was more to this than met the eye.

       *       *       *       *       *

She recoiled before the men. Maddox smiled sourly at her and Kingston
gloated. "Going to reduce that crystal so that no one could follow
you," said Kingston.

"Where--"

Kingston smiled with self-gratification. He felt grandiose enough to
gloat a bit more. "This," he said expansively, "is what we term Earth
Three."

"Three?" she echoed hollowly.

"Some very brilliant people," chuckled Kingston, "reasoned that there
was the possibility of two outcomes to Alamogordo. But they never even
considered the possibility of the bomb failing completely. This is the
world where the bomb failed."

"Failed!" said Virginia, completely overwhelmed with the implications.
Her tone was hollow, almost a psychopathic parroting of Kingston's
words. "Failed but...." she was incoherent.

Kingston smiled again. "After all," he said, "the Alamogordo Test was
made to determine whether or not the bomb would actually work. Even
the finest brains of the day were not certain--and there was the
possibility of failure."

"But--"

"Here we are," said Kingston simply.

"But if there was failure?" said Virginia falteringly, but with gaining
confidence, "how is it that you are so very well advanced?"

"The failure of the bomb was temporary. A later model worked. But
in our world science is completely free and untrammeled. Unlike
your world, Virginia Carlson, where science is deeply regulated and
directed at one and only one idea, our science knows neither bonds nor
interference.

"If you ever get outside in our world you will see atomic power in its
fullest use. You will see advances made that are and will always be
impossible in any system where a man or a group of men can direct in
any way the course of science."

Virginia nodded glumly. "I know," she said. "I've always known of the
openings into fields of science that might lead to great things but
they were closed because of the necessity of pursuing the one idea
toward our future."

Kingston nodded. He admitted the unhappy fact but his own position was
none too certain--or had not been until recently.

"If your world is so excellent," asked Virginia bitterly, "why...?"

"The time is approaching when only one future can remain," said
Kingston. "No one but an utter egomaniac would consider that the entire
universe is regulated for the benefit of mankind. We have yet to make a
real attempt to reach the other planets. Have you ever considered the
rather impossible proportions of this temporal fission? I doubt it.

"Is, for instance, there a complete universe for each of the
time-trails? Or if Earth One and Earth Three both sent rockets to Venus
would they meet because Venus was common to both time streams? Think of
the energy required to separate a complete universe and ask yourself
whether you think it possible."

"Energy has little to do with it," replied Virginia. "Who knows the
functioning of the thing we call time--possibly for the want of a
better word. Who knows why we have trepidation? Certainly the energy
required to cause a planet to falter in its orbit is not truly expended
but trepidation is caused by something that seems to require little or
no energy."

"We're far from the original premise," said Kingston. "We may never
know whether or not the temporal paths are merely local or widespread.
It is not a matter of organic versus inorganic matter, for neither is
controlled nor directed from any of the other streams of time.

"Were this not so, every time a workman lays a brick on Earth One the
same brick would move and be cemented in situ on the other two worlds.
And a car on the street might have an accident with a car common to all
three worlds but driven only by a driver on Earth One.

"The point is," continued Kingston, "that the time is coming when this
triple existence must cease. Again it is the old principle of the
survival of the fittest. I am not a firm believer in a god, either
benevolent or vicious. Yet there is--or was--some agency that effected
this split because it was uncertain as to outcome."

"What hope could there have been for Earth Two?" complained Virginia
bitterly.

"Who knows?" replied Kingston. "There might have emerged from her
bitter necessity a solution of a lot of ills. Certainly I know
that, with the entire world working against that fatal menace, few
differences of ideology remain. In Earth Two, Virginia, the lion and
the lamb have lain together.

"In fact," grinned Kingston, "you might be closer to allegory to state
that the eagle and the bear have a lot in common with lions, dragons
and others. It is," he admitted rather unhappily, "a factor that we,
here, have not been able to accomplish."

"An ill wind--" said Virginia bitterly.

"True," nodded Kingston. "But the fact remains that the three time
paths diverged because of some uncertainty. These same time paths
must ultimately come to one ending. We do not know the future--no one
does--but this we do know--That world which has the best factor of
survival will emerge as the one and only Earth.

"We," said Kingston proudly, "have the best technical perfection, so
in any strife we must win. Therefore we are the ones to survive and we
are working toward that end. That is why we grabbed you. Your world is
doomed. We must ensure the doom of Earth One so that Earth Three is the
only one left."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kingston turned to Maddox. "I think we might be wise to collect Ed
Bronson too," he said. "No use letting him run free. Find him and bring
him through too."

Maddox nodded and went to work on the controls, setting the dial that
determined the depth of penetration to Earth Two. He worked rapidly,
sweeping the house that was cojacent with the house on Earth One.

"Heck!" snapped Kingston. "He can't have gone very far. Of course she
sent him to her chums. Find them!"

Maddox nodded and located Virginia's laboratory with ease. Moray
and Cauldron were there, working on the gear, but obviously getting
nowhere. Kingston shrugged. "Cover every place they might conceal
Bronson," he directed.

To Virginia, he added, "It is most convenient that Earth Three lies
on the other side of Earth One from Earth Two. Were this not so, the
fumbling of your friends to penetrate the barrier between the streams
of time might cause them to stumble on us."

"Why can't they get through to One?" asked the girl.

Kingston smiled. "Within the hour," he said, "four keys will unlock
four safety deposit boxes in four different banks in Albuquerque. Each
box contains one subcritical mass of space-resonant elements. My men
are finishing the job you started, but this time the key to invasion
lies in my hands!" He turned to Maddox, who was fumbling with the
controls. "Find him yet?" he demanded.

"No," grumbled Maddox.

Kingston turned to Virginia. "You want to live," he told her in a very
matter-of-fact voice, "and therefore it is to your interest to see that
we do not permit Bronson to harm our plans. Where is he?"

"I don't know," said the girl. "I merely sent him through."

"You are a brazen little traitor," snapped Kingston. "I believe you!
You merely sent him through, you cared not where."

Maddox spoke up. "That equipment she flanged up isn't the most
accurate," he said. "But I've covered the entire neighborhood. You
know, the closest mass of focal elements lies across the street, in
Earth Two, in the laboratory of Virginia Carlson. Therefore, lacking
direction and precision, she'd have sent him through to the focal zone
of her own gear."

Virginia gasped. Partially blinded as she had been, half-aware of the
duplicity of her surroundings, close in the near-paralytic grip of the
transmission equipment, Virginia had retained sufficient cognizance
to know most definitely that when she looked through the veil, she
had been looking into a room that parallelled Bronson's laboratory in
shape, size and window-placement.

It was not similar to her own. In her haste she had paid it little
attention. Her only thought had been to dispose of the man. Knowing
that there were no other critical masses on Earth One, she had felt
that anywhere he went was elsewhere.

The implication was clear enough. She had sent Ed Bronson into Earth
Three, a simple mistake due to the fact that Two and Three were
situated almost equally distant and on opposite sides of Earth One.
Obviously, the crude equipment had selected the nearer critical
mass--which had been on Earth Three in a cojacent house and not through
to Earth Two and across the street to Virginia's own laboratory.

Bronson, then, was on Earth Three, somewhere.




                               CHAPTER X

                             _Counterfeit_


Bronson found that the streets of the city were teeming with people
which was not what he had expected from his brief talk with Miss
Carlson of Earth Two. Bronson was absolutely certain that this was not
Earth Two at all, for it seemed unlike a world teetering on the brink
of death--even ignoring the main clincher of the pillar of atomic fire
mentioned by La Carlson, there was that vast and more-than-obvious
difference.

Bronson shook his head in wonder. This was not unlike his own world,
yet there were subtle differences--subtle differences observable at
first glance, but becoming bold and glaring differences as Bronson
became more familiar with the street down which he walked.

A bus went past--and did not leave a wake of evil-smelling pale blue
exhaust. A store on the corner advertised cigarette lighters which
bore the name _Irhinium_. Bronson knew of most of the cigarette
lighter companies by name and none of them bore such a name. He looked
more carefully and noted that certain vague references to _Irhinium_
indicated that it was a trade name based upon the motive power of the
things.

In this strange world to which he had been hurled, did they--by the
Great Harry--use atomic power to light their cigarettes?

Bronson's mind, of course, was overwhelmed by the suddenness of events
and its natural inability to accept such a vast conglomeration of new
concepts at the same time. It merely watched, saw, cataloged. Anything
outrageous would be given the same consideration as something quite
normal in Bronson's nervous state of complete wonder. His mental state
bordered on shock.

Noiselessly the traffic moved, noiselessly and without odor. Dress and
appointment were brilliant and entirely new. The overhead wires of Ed
Bronson's world were gone, as were the poles that bore them. Nor were
there street lights. Streetcars plied their routes with a minimum of
thundering racket but there was neither trolley above nor slot in the
street below.

Bronson paused before a large toy shop and watched a man manipulating
an electric train. The miniature train had all the maneuverability of
a real train because of the multiplicity of controls under the fingers
of the man in the window. Beside the train was a large box containing
cubic bits of metal and non-metal.

The explanation on the box said that the contents would build a
miniature fission-reacting pile that worked but which employed Kenium
metal instead of uranium since the use of the latter was dangerous,
requiring ton upon ton of fissionable material as well as a moderator.

That was the clincher.

Bronson's mind cleared once the facts were driven home. He was not on
Earth Two. He was most certainly not on Earth One.

But Ed Bronson's mind leaped to the foregone conclusion with simple
reasoning. Earth One, Earth Two--and Earth Three, where the third
possibility had taken place at Alamogordo, on July sixteenth, 1945.
This was where the bomb had fizzled--and where, because of that, all
forms of atomic research went on without regulation.

Not one world, not two worlds, _but three_!

Well, there was a perfect way to check this. Bronson knew where the
library was, had used it often. It might still be there, for the one in
Earth One had been erected in--ah--he did not recall the date but it
was something like MDCCCLXXXVI.

He turned the corner and walked down the proper street and, after
turning the second corner, Bronson saw it--in the same address and in
the same building. He wasted no time in finding the newspaper files.

       *       *       *       *       *

July sixteenth, 1945, was uninformative. Bronson wondered what the same
paper printed in his own world said on that date but guessed that this
paper, a morning daily, might have been composed and on the press at
the time of the affair--if it had not been already printed.

Of security angles for the era he studied, Bronson knew only the
mention made in history and tales spun by his father and cronies,
who had lived and worked at that time. So Bronson accepted the fact
that security might well have suppressed in both worlds--or even all
three--any traces of the Alamogordo Experiment for some time to come.

He turned to the following day, July seventeen, 1945, and found
nothing. On the eighteenth, Bronson saw nothing truly informative but
there was an item printed as recorded from Radio Tokyo in which it was
claimed that the United States had asked for representatives of the
Japanese Government to come to America under a flag of truce. This was
construed to mean that the United States was considering surrender.

Nothing was visible for several issues after that. Then a vast
headline--PEACE--shouted across the page and on page two of the paper,
was a brief explanation that the representatives had returned to Japan.
A columnist was demanding an answer to what and why the mystery.

Another account from Radio Tokyo mentioned that, in a spirit of
humanity, Japan had surrendered rather than loose upon the entire world
a weapon so terrible as the representatives had been shown.

Bronson nodded vaguely. The trail was getting intelligible. He at least
knew nothing of this latter fact. He thumbed his way through the paper
to the date of the Hiroshima Bomb and found nothing worthy of mention.
Nagasaki was not mentioned a week or so later and Bronson, none too
clear of his dates, covered days before and after his approximation
just to be certain.

He pored through the paper and found many references to the Manhattan
Project, including one full newspaper, on the general lines of what he
recalled of the Smyth Report.

A month later a Washington columnist printed a scoop. There had been a
test of an atom bomb at Alamogordo, he claimed, and the bomb had failed
to function.

"Ah," said Bronson aloud.

What came next? How the two worlds had become so socially and
technically different was something to be studied at a later date. For
the present Bronson felt that it was the time to start thinking about
action.

He left the library and walked down the street thoughtfully. Here the
bomb had failed, here--and automatically Ed Bronson cataloged the
place as Earth Three--science was unfettered.

So, he reasoned along two lines simultaneously, the transmission
of things from one plane to the other required the use of the
radioisotopic phosphor--Bronson did not know the conglomeration of
transuranic elements comprised an entire rare element group known as
the space-resonant series and so called them by the name he had known
them--and since this was so, he would be forced to investigate.

Also, since Earth Three had no apparent regulation on scientific
research, it would probably be easy to obtain enough to go to work. The
unfortunate part of it was that his rather extensive bank account was
deposited in the First National Bank. Though it was situated within
three blocks of this very spot, its officers would view his very solid
checks as so much illegal paper.

He smiled wryly.

So here he was, isolated on an obviously alien world, with the weight
of his own earth on his shoulders, quite incapable of more than
scratching the surface.

Lost--completely lost--in the troubled thought, Ed Bronson's trained
hands, by sheer reflex, dipped into his pocket for a cigarette. The
hands, finding none, notified the locomotor areas of his brain, which,
operating on sheer habit and reflex, sent a message to the eyes.

The eyes looked around, though what they scanned made no impression on
the more conscious sections of Bronson's mind. They caught what was
wanted and the automatic process went on--the information went back to
the habit-section, directions went to the muscles and Bronson walked
towards the drug-store in absolutely the same state of coma as the
proverbial absent-minded professor.

Too deeply engrossed in his thoughts to pay attention to the automatic
items, Ed Bronson's brain caused his voice to murmur a cigarette-brand
name. The cigarette came, and Bronson's right hand dipped into his
pocket and dropped a twenty-dollar bill on the counter.

The clerk looked at it and mumbled, "Have to get change, mister."

       *       *       *       *       *

Again unconsciously, Bronson's head nodded.

Had anything evolved that was out of the normal routine, Bronson
would have been forced to take notice. But this was like driving an
automobile or riding a bicycle. It required no conscious effort so long
as nothing demanded decision.

Nothing demanded decision. The decision was made for him. He felt a
heavy hand on his shoulder and felt it turn him so that he faced--His
mind came back to his surroundings like a snapped rubber band. A
policeman!

"What's the idea?" demanded the latter.

"What idea?" asked Bronson.

"Counterfeit money."

"That isn't it--"

The policeman laughed nastily. "Looks perfect," he admitted. "But I
might point out that E. Thomas Froman is not the secretary of the
United States Treasury."

"Huh?" grunted Bronson.

"A perfect counterfeit excepting that the wrong fellow signed it,"
snapped the policeman. "What's the idea, fellow? I take it you don't
mind counterfeiting but dislike being jailed for forgery?"

"I don't get it."

"You will," smiled the policeman with great self-satisfaction. "Come
along. Counterfeit money is a bad thing to have in your possession."

Bronson cursed himself. He had even more.

Anticipating distastefully his second visit to the police station in as
many days, Ed Bronson emerged from the squad car behind the policeman.
This was one of the basic differences. This was not by far the same
place he had been in before and the seriousness of his position made Ed
Bronson smile whimsically.

If not the only one ever to do it, he believed himself at least the
first man ever to be jailed in two jails on two worlds--or on one world
separated by only time. It was "doing time" with a vengeance!

With the policeman following him, Bronson went into the building,
upstairs and into a room filled with scientific equipment. His quick
mind decided that, on this world, advances had also been made in
criminology. But he was forced to wait and see, for none of the
equipment made sense to Bronson. What the police did with it, how it
separated criminal from citizen, Bronson had no idea.

"--passed a twenty dollar bill signed by E. Thomas Froman as Secretary
of the United States Treasury," said the policeman.

"Clever of you, officer."

"Thank you. The shopkeeper merely assumed it to be counterfeit. I knew
better."

"This, officer, is Ed Bronson--of Earth One," said Kingston.

Bronson jumped visibly. They knew him! Then he realized that they must
certainly know him because they had kidnaped him through the barrier
in time. This, of course, was erroneous, for it had been Virginia's
machinations that had brought him here. On the other hand, the error
made little difference so far as its end-result went, for it was true
that they knew him and also that they were quite glad to have him under
their thumbs.

"So you're the birds who grabbed me?" he said brashly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kingston grinned wolfishly. He saw little reason for letting Bronson
know that another had accomplished what he himself had wanted.

"We're glad to see you," said Kingston.

"No doubt," snapped Bronson. "The pleasure is all yours."

"Don't be petty," laughed Kingston.

Bronson turned around to see what the other man--Maddox, of course--was
doing. Maddox had stopped using the space-resonant viewer, but the
screen depicted a street on Earth Two, which was obvious since there
were twin shadows cast, one by the sun and one by the atomic flame.

Bronson knew it by reputation if in no other way. So he nodded at it
and said, scathingly, "Convenient way to spy on your neighbors, isn't
it?"

Kingston nodded and smiled. And Bronson knew that the real menace to
Earth One was not the fear-filled, already-dying Earth Two with its
growing cancer of atomic flame, but this free, lusty Earth Three where
science had been unrestricted in scope and field and direction.

Superior in the knowledge that they controlled the entire situation
because of their higher degree of varied sciences, men of Earth Three
were quite capable of biding their time and aiding in any scheme
planned by Earth Two--or perhaps Earth One--that would enhance the
future of Earth Three.

Bronson saw them as conquistadores, watching savages fight over a lush
island and waiting for the least difficult moment to release all the
terrors of modern civilization to defeat both sides.

"So what happens to me?" he snapped.

"Unwittingly you have served us," said Kingston. "We could not get
through to you so long as you possessed no critical mass of the
space-resonant elements--"

"What--"

"Among the chemical compounds you were playing with, there are several
of the transuranic elements created by the atomic pile," explained
Kingston, falling back into his superior attitude. "These form a
rare-element group known as the space-resonant series and they respond
to one another in many ways.

"Some of them are bizarre compared to the theories held by your
so-called modern physics. We use them as matter transmitters and it is
a rare home that has none for the delivery of merchandise."

"So?"

"So," laughed Kingston, "when you finally collected your critical mass
you enabled us to enter your Earth One, as we call it."

"And?"

"Your engineer's mind can reason out the rest," replied Kingston
quietly.

"You mean that sooner or later one of the three must cease?"

"Yes. To prove it, I shall pose a question. Have you ever considered
whether the entire universe was following triple time-paths or whether
it is only this section of the universe?"

"Not vitally," replied Bronson.

"Then think about it," said Kingston. "You'll have time."

"I--?"

"You'll have time. We have the power and the science and the will and
the ability to effect those necessary factors that will cause Earth
Three alone to survive."

Bronson was forced to admit that Kingston was quite correct. Though
he said nothing nor gave any sign that he agreed, Bronson was forced
to agree that Earth Three was deep in its plans while Earth One lay
complacently in ignorance of its danger. The only man who had any
inkling of their danger was himself--and he had tried to warn them only
to be greeted as a lunatic.

He wanted desperately to know about Virginia but was afraid to ask--or
even to show that he had hope. If she were back there and safe--

Kingston smiled tolerantly. "You might as well relax," he said. "There
will be no return to Earth One for anybody until we are ready." He
explained about the division of the space resonant elements into four
subcritical masses. "It even prevents those from the doomed Earth Two
from entering."

Bronson remained silent.

"And the stuff in your laboratory is the only critical mass existent on
Earth One," added Kingston.

Bronson's heart leaped and it was with all of his effort that he
kept that gleam of hope from showing. They did not know nor had they
detected the mass used by Virginia in her laboratory--could it be
because her set-up was inefficient as she admitted? Bronson breathed a
prayer that they would never find out.

But it gave him hope--a hope that permitted him to relax for the moment
instead of breaking into action, however futile. Bronson's feelings
had been one of frustration, an almost overwhelming desire to beat his
fists against something even though it was futile--the insane desire to
strike a blow, however minute.

"Until later," said Kingston, "you will occupy a room upstairs. Whether
or not you survive with us will depend upon how you behave. I assure
you that dying for a principle is futility personified and that a live
traitor surpasses a dead fanatic."




                              CHAPTER XI

                       _Reunion on Earth Three_


In a small but comfortable room in Maddox's laboratory Bronson found
time to object to Kingston's statement that anyone adhering to a
principle is automatically a fanatic. A fanatic, according to one of
Bronson's rather cynical definitions, was any man who adhered to a set
of principles at variance with your own.

Time went on slowly and it became dark eventually. Bronson could hardly
believe that he had been a free and happy scientist but a few days ago,
that all that had happened to him had occurred in so short a time.

He had taken a few hours of sleep not long ago but it was insufficient.
Now, with the entire program at a standstill, nervous reaction set in
and the enforced inactivity drove Bronson deep into the fatigue he had
been ignoring because of nervous energy. He sprawled on the bed and
stared at the ceiling for a short time--and then slept.

Bronson awoke much later and saw by his watch that it was about three
o'clock in the morning. By then he was slept out and quite ready to
test his brain and his body against Kingston and Maddox.

Lying on the bed Bronson tried to plan.

The main problem was to effect an exit and take a look around--cooped
up here he could do nothing at all. His mind, having been geared to
fast action for days, was now craving more action. It was like a drug.
And a portion of his mind told him that if all this could happen in a
short time, there was reason to believe that more concentrated action
might solve the puzzle.

So Bronson arose and inspected the door. The place had not been
designed as a prison. The door was a normal door and the lock was a
flimsy affair intended to serve merely as a warning to the uninvited
that the room was forbidden. It would give no trouble at all to someone
determined to enter--or to get out.

Bronson smiled in the dim moonlight. Undoubtedly, Kingston felt that,
with no place to go, Bronson's freedom was unimportant.

He went to the closet and found a couple of wire coat-hangers. One of
these he twisted into a small hook to probe the lock. It was a simple
single-tumbler bolt lock and Bronson lifted the tumbler easily and slid
the bolt back. The door opened on oiled hinges and he was in the clear.

His first move was to the street door. That was heavily locked and
barred and, engineer that Ed Bronson was, picking a lock of that
calibre was beyond his ability. He checked the windows but every
window was equipped with a slender, ornamental grille-work that was as
effective a barrier as the plain bars of the average jail.

Bronson shrugged. Whatever the score, whatever the outcome, he had
to make some move. Not the kind of idiotic physical strife against
Kingston and his minions which would get him only a broken head with
nothing gained, but some move based upon the thing that Bronson knew
best. He knew little of the space-resonant communicator but there was a
bare chance of his finding out.

Virginia--what had happened to her in the melee? Had she escaped and,
if so, could he communicate with her from Kingston's gear upstairs. Or
was Virginia also a prisoner in this scientific mausoleum?

Questions all--and no answers. Bronson felt complete futility once more.

He raced upstairs. If the space resonator would cross the temporal rift
to Earth One, it would also cross to Earth Two. Perhaps, he reasoned,
with greater difficulty because Earth One was the focal point and the
more stable. And, if what little he knew about Earth Two were correct,
Earth Two might well never learn of Earth Three despite the presence on
all hands of the focal elements.

Delving into the lesser facets of a science was not permitted on Earth
Two. Some high brass on Earth Two must have viewed the transmission
possibilities of the space-resonant elements and decided that they were
to be used for transportation and communication and nothing more. Some
brass with fear, pardonably ignorant of the fact that just beyond his
fingertips in the depths of an unknown science lay hidden the secret
that would give them hope.

So much for regulated science!

       *       *       *       *       *

The equipment was mostly of mass-manufacture. That helped. Nameplates
were written in plain enough English and the controls were not
difficult to understand. Bronson studied it quite some time before
making his first move, then reached forward and snapped on the master
switch.

He turned the switch marked "video" and the screen came to life.
Maddox had made pencil-marks on the power dial to indicate the depth
of penetration necessary to reach both of the other temporal worlds.
Bronson tried Earth One gingerly and saw his own home. Maddox had left
the controls set when the news of Bronson's capture had come.

Bronson tried the steering controls and sent the plane of view along
the silent street of his own world. It went on a skew because the
line-up of angles was imperfect and Bronson found that he had to
manipulate a side-swing control in conjunction with the line control
to keep the plane of view from angling off into the houses that lined
the street.

Then, with the equipment's secrets available for him to study, Bronson
abandoned such study in order to think and plan more thoroughly.

The lock upon his door was certainly not the kind that any man in his
right sense would use to imprison any but a schoolchild. That did not
ring true, even though Kingston and Maddox held him in contempt and
knew that Bronson could never return to Earth One.

There was more to it than that. He turned back to the equipment and set
the depth-dial to zero-zero. Then, with an amused shock, Bronson was
looking at a view of himself who was looking at the viewscreen upon
which was the same picture. Lack of definition in the picture elements
prevented the scene from being repeated to the infinitely small.

But there was no time for fooling. So Ed Bronson lifted the plane
of view and passed the plane entirely through the top floor of the
building. He brought it back once it had reached the back and repassed
it again, setting it aside by nine-tenths of its span. On the fourth
pass Bronson saw something, plucked at the switches and rotated the
plane of view.

Here was a small room. Two cots were there with a sleeping man in each.
They were in uniform. A third man lounged in an easy chair--asleep.

Bronson breathed more easily. For, on a small portable viewer, was the
bedroom that Bronson had recently vacated. Guards, obviously, and one
of them luckily eligible for court-martial for sleeping on his watch!

Bronson spun the distance dial wildly, and saw a kaleidoscope of color,
land, rock, and stream. He cared not where it was that he came upon the
supercritical mass of space resonant elements--all he cared was that it
was a goodly distance away.

He did smile when he saw the name of the store on the window--not
that he could read it for, to Ed Bronson, lettering in Russian might
as well be read from either inside or outside or upside-down or
backwards--because he had a hunch that uniformed guards trying to
explain their undesirable presence in a Russian store would be at a
loss to explain how they had got there.

       *       *       *       *       *

His hand found the key marked TRANSMISSION and he saw all three guards
land on the hard cold floor, awake, and start to ask themselves what
had happened.

He left them to their wonder, though he admitted that at any less
strenuous time it would be most interesting to watch their complete
discomfort and amazement. He brought back the scene of view and
continued to pass the plane back and forth through the building. On
the floor below the guards--in the apartment next to his own place of
imprisonment--the field of view passed over a bed. A tousle of hair and
an outstretched arm caused Bronson to blink.

"Virginia!" he breathed.

They had captured her, too. Well. That meant some saving in time.
Virginia would help him. Since the mass of crystals in his own lab
had been reduced to non-operative masses and well separated, the only
other possible mass was that in Virginia's place. What they would do,
of course, was to get back on Earth One and subdivide her crystals into
ineffectual masses and then instigate a search for the parts of his
own. Once he locked the invaders out they could so remain forever.

Bronson nodded happily. He continued to sweep the plane of view through
the building until he came upon Maddox and Kingston. With a grin, he
delivered both of them to the same store in Siberia and then returned
to the contemplation of his problem.

It seemed a shame to abandon all this gear. And if he took Virginia
back with him, through this machine, someone would know instantly where
they had gone. There was no known way of fouling up the controls after
no one was left in the laboratory to do it.

And despite his amusement at the idea of several irate people trying
to explain to an irate officialdom why, how and wherefor, Bronson knew
very well that Kingston and Maddox would be able to talk their way home
in all too short a time.

Certainly far too short a time to transport the equipment he wanted.

Virginia? Bronson shrugged. He kept forgetting that she knew actually
less about this sort of thing than he did. She had said that her gear
was far less efficient than his.

Bronson sent the plane of view skimming forward across the earth again,
and then thoughtfully set it for Earth Two. Far away from New Mexico,
in the lake region of Northern Michigan, Ed Bronson found a small
cottage--untenanted but with a supercritical mass of the space-resonant
elements available.

Then Bronson expanded the volume of transmission to its utmost, turned
up the variac on the line voltage to overload proportions to add to the
general increase and then, wondering if he were rushing in where an
angel would fear to tread and also remembering that a little knowledge
is often a very dangerous thing, Ed Bronson shoved the transmitting
switch in with a gesture of finality....

Upstairs, in the room next to Bronson's previous place of imprisonment,
Virginia Carlson, formerly of Earth Two, was sleeping easily. Her first
big decision had been made--her decision to accept the pleasant aspect
of Earth One forever, eschewing her former life. People who insist
upon absolute loyalty will scorn her decision. Yet from a pragmatic
standpoint, Virginia was correct even though she may have been morally
and ethically wrong.

For her own Earth Two had been a sorry place indeed, peopled with
neurotics and hopeless mutants, the population more than decimated
by the bomb and its radiation effects. Of a minor percentage of the
population of Earth Two, Virginia was inclined to view the wholesome
and happy population of Earth One as her own kind. Certainly, as a
whole and healthy woman in all senses of the word, Virginia did belong.

The decision had not been made without a wrench. It had most definitely
been a huge decision. It is never easy to give up an existence
completely even though it is less than desirable because of loyalties
and friendships made.

Yet the practical aspect was important. Nature--human nature--had
created Virginia's decision, not the girl herself. For her life on
Earth Two, threatened as it was with extinction within a few short
years, violated the very concepts of nature.

First, there is the eon-old instinct for self-preservation. Few
mentalities will accept self-negation for the benefit of other people.
No stable mentality will accept self-negation when it means little to
anyone.

And why her subconscious mind reasoned, should she aid in the
destruction of a healthy civilization for the benefit of a civilization
already doomed?

No more selfish than anyone else, Virginia knew that nothing she could
do would render the people of her own world a healthy race--not after
radiation and death and the nerve-shattering fear had taken its toll
for thirty years. So Virginia's initial decision had been made.

Then had come Earth Three. And once the abandonment of the first
principle had been done, Virginia no longer had loyalty upon which to
fall back. Once the idea of self-preservation had come to the fore, it
was a mere matter of selecting her future from the practical standpoint
alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Earth Three certainly had what it took to win. In a culture unhampered
by brass-hattism science had made vast strides. From her history she
knew that science was a vital factor in any strife and had been for a
century or more.

No longer was it possible for a group of farmers to rebel and make it
stick. In the American Revolution any armed man was as good as any
armed soldier--better in many cases since the armed farmer was not
restrained by certain codes and restrictions.

But for years the armed farmer, though willing and able, was not
possessed of the weapons of modern warfare. Tanks are not needed on
a farm. Flamethrowers are not a household item. Machine-guns are
inefficient against ducks and geese. Pursuit aircraft and bombers do
not find much service in a peacetime civilization.

So science had removed the concept of Mr. Colt's Equalizer, for while
the Colt made all men equal, its superior developments rendered a
trained and equipped army far superior to the most avid of citizen
armies.

In a similar vein Earth Three, with its unbounded science was, without
a doubt, more capable of survival in this affair.

Especially when their objective, Earth One, was lying silently,
enjoying its luxury, and not even suspecting the widespread
preparations going on. Earth One would be swarmed under and destroyed
before it realized what was going on.

Well, reasoned Virginia, since she had decided to accept a future,
eschewing her former life on Earth Two, it remained only for her to
accept whichever future seemed the most secure.

So Virginia Carlson slept easily, feeling that she had, by chance or
by luck, been inserted into the one future that promised the most. Her
dreams were untroubled.

The building groaned in the cry of tortured metal and stone. It dropped
in a plaster-cracking jar a full half yard, then tilted swiftly to one
corner and stopped, settling gradually as the slack was taken up. The
roaring groan ceased and left only the crackling sound of fissures
running through concrete, the flaking of scale from ironwork, and
unimportant splintering and cracking of timber.

Virginia awoke with a cry of fear.

She heard footsteps on the stairs and she wondered what had happened.
She knew that Maddox and Kingston were experimenting and wondered
whether they had touched off something dangerous. Earthquake came to
mind and she wondered about it.

Earthquakes were nothing new to Virginia, since the atomic fire that
burned deep into the bowels of Earth Two had released surface strain
from time to time as it ate its way through compressed rock-strata.

She sat up in bed and reached for her clothing. No matter what it was
it was still better to face trouble dressed.

She was slipping into her frock when the door burst open and, there was
Ed Bronson--whom she believed that she had sent to Earth Two. Virginia
recoiled automatically.

[Illustration: There was Ed Bronson--whom she believed she had sent to
Earth Two.]

"Hi," said Bronson cheerfully.

Virginia blinked--mentally, actually and figuratively. According to her
mental record of the proceedings, Bronson had every right to extract
any penalty he deemed fit.

Dubiously, she replied, "Hi."

"Cheer up," he told her, not noticing her nervousness. "I've just
swiped the entire batch--the whole shooting match. Now we can work this
out all by ourselves."

Virginia nodded vaguely.

Bronson noticed her uncertainty. "I've just expanded the field of focus
or whatever it's called that used to transmit stuff from one temporal
plane to the other--and I've shoved you, me, building, foot, horse and
marines into Earth Two to get away from that gang."

Virginia recoiled mentally. After all the mad work, the planning, the
acceptance of a plan intended to place her in a more desirable future,
here she was right back in Earth Two--doomed once more to the creeping
atomic flame.




                              CHAPTER XII

                            _Dawn in Flame_


Virginia followed Bronson down to the laboratory in a daze, and she
comprehended only about one half of what he was saying. The one thing
that she did not understand was why he knew nothing of Earth Two. She
believed she had sent him there and the double transfer should have
awakened him.

That should have left him aware of his transfer to Earth Three when
Kingston kidnaped him.

Kingston could have told her that the bright sky light she saw in her
half-state had been but the temporarily-transferred atomic flame but
Kingston was not there. So instead of wanting to kill her summarily for
her double-cross, Ed Bronson still believed that she was originally of
Earth One, had been kidnaped as he had been.

Virginia did find it a bit amusing--perhaps it was the hysteria that
acts as a safety valve when things are so unreasonable that the mind
will not accept them without seeking its funny side.

Dawn was breaking as Bronson finished his explanation and, as the light
increased, he turned to the equipment and said, "We've got this all to
ourselves here. I couldn't find your crystal on Earth One--and besides,
if Kingston can flange up some means of detecting the presence of the
stuff on Earth One, there'd be but that one to detect.

"And I couldn't set this mausoleum down on Earth One near any city
street. No room. I'm assuming that your diggings are in the city?"

He did not wait for Virginia to answer, but turned to the equipment and
started to look it over in earnest. "This," he said, "I've got to know
more about."

Virginia could have told him but she merely nodded vaguely and said
nothing. She thought it over.

"Have you any hope at all of saving your world?" she asked--and then
gasped because she had not said "our world."

She might have saved her fear, for he did not notice. "Some," he said,
straightening up from the gear and looking at her with a half smile.

"Do I sound disloyal," she said tremulously, "if I suggest that if
Earth Three wins we have the means here to join them?" Virginia hoped
to gain some idea of his feelings on the subject so that she could
calculate his intentions.

Bronson shook his head grimly. "Earth Three," he said, "appears to have
all the cards. No one doubts that Earth Two is doomed and is no true
menace compared to Three. Earth Three is cognizant of its possible fate
and is most certainly working furiously to avoid it."

"They plot and plan against Earth One while Earth One sleeps in the
peace of false security. Lord knows, I've tried to tell them, and they
are so incapable of understanding this affair that they tried to slap
me in the clink for believing it." He laughed bitterly. "When I was a
kid in school they tried to tell me that any man who tells the truth
has nothing to fear."

"But if Earth Three wins--as it seems certain to do?" she insisted.

"That would be bad," he said.

"Why?"

"Virginia," he said soberly, "I don't quite know what it is but there's
something very wrong with Earth Three. Confound it, it's simple enough,
too, but for the life of me I cannot see it."

"What can be wrong with a world where science and knowledge are not
suppressed?"

"I don't know," he said irritably. "But there's something wrong with
Earth Three." He turned back to the gear again. "The one thing we
must be on the watch for is the day when Kingston sends word for his
trustees to assemble his space-resonant materials into a supercritical
mass.

"Also we must watch to see that he does not use yours. I'm going to
duplicate this equipment first and then your job will be to keep an eye
on Kingston all the time while I work out this stuff."

Bronson looked around him with a cynical smile. "Books, data,
equipment, and supplies," he said. "This is not like finding the
science of an ancient culture. This is a man finding a complete means
of study of a science of his own civilization removed but a few years
to the future.

"I've often laughed," he went on cheerfully, "at what Volta and
Henry might think if they saw a modern circuit. But give them books,
equipment and material and they would work it out soon enough.

"Radio, for instance, would have had its inception in the middle of the
nineteenth century if twentieth century measuring and testing equipment
and books had been handy. So," he strode over to a bookcase and took
out a heavy tome, "we work this out."

Virginia shook her head unhappily. "Why, oh why did this thing happen?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Bronson smiled tolerantly. "Because of the chances," he said
thoughtfully. "I'm no believer in a great and benevolent god who
interferes with his subjects. I'm more inclined to look upon God as an
intellect interested in the problems of his subjects and quite willing
to let them work out their own destiny--if for no other reason than to
discover whether He had built well.

"You cannot know how good your toy is if you insist upon helping it
over the difficult places with your hands. It must run of itself to be
a good model.

"Now I'm not exactly convinced that Nature or God was baffled by
this thing that His toy built and therefore held His benevolent--but
baffled--hand in the stream of time to see which was the best.

"I'm inclined to think there was a good scientific explanation of why
time should have split three ways--why in one case the earth entered
fission, why the thing worked properly in another time-stream and why
the Alamogordo Bomb fizzled in a third."

"Can you find out why--and what it could have been?" she asked.

He laughed shortly. "It isn't mumbo-jumbo or magic," he said. "All of
the things attributed to mumbo-jumbo are based upon facts not known to
those who observe the effects. The very fact that there was some doubt
about the outcome of the Alamogordo Bomb proved that the best brains
knew their knowledge of nuclear physics was incomplete."

Virginia nodded brightly. "So you think that some unknown factor caused
the trouble?"

"Obviously. We know that fissionable materials do operate. The
Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs were of different types of material,
giving us at least two different proofs of its operation. We have too
little knowledge of Earth Three but I'm reasonably certain that, once
the original experiment failed, fissionable reactions took place and
are taking place now. We know even less of the affair of Earth Two. We
don't know but can assume that later attempts would turn out properly."

Virginia said nothing. She nodded sagely, and her nod was based upon
the fact that she knew he was right but could not say so lest she be
forced to tell the rest of her story.

"So," he said, "we can assume that something was either generated or
present in the mixture at Alamogordo that, in one case, stopped the
reaction, in the next case, permitted the thing to work and, in the
third case, started the atomic fire in the earth."

"How do you go about finding it?" she asked. Virginia was interested.
This theory was new to her, but it sounded reasonably solid.

He grinned unhappily. "The trouble with making experiments in atomic
explosions is that it leaves so little stuff to measure afterwards." He
lifted a crystal of the space-resonant elements and looked at it with
wrinkled forehead.

"Something in this crystal holds the answer. I think we should analyze
this material right down to the most infinitesimal trace. Then we can
find out which of the included elements is responsible for the original
problem."

"I can help," said Virginia.

He smiled grimly. "Your job is to keep an eye on Maddox and Kingston.
See if you can locate their men on Earth One, also see what you can do
toward locating those four subcritical masses. We must keep Kingston
and the rest of his gang from entering Earth One." He looked at her
thoughtfully. "Also keep an eye on your own collection."

Virginia smiled and nodded. She looked him squarely in the eye and
said, "My collection of those elements is very small."

"Um," he said. "It's more than possible that the various functions of
the space-resonant elements depends upon their mass. For instance, a
small quantity might be suitable for mere communication--a larger
quantity may be required for the visual communication, while a still
larger mass is needed for a physical transfer.

"How their division comes with respect to the transfer of objects or
messages from time plane to time plane is something that might be
baffling."

"But what are you going to do right now?" asked Virginia.

"First, I'm going to see what can be done about building a detector
for the supercritical masses," he said. "Then we're going to do some
micro-analysis on these crystals."

Virginia was silent. She was not entirely convinced that there was
something wrong with the culture on Earth Three. Earth Three obviously
had all of the scientific cards, what with years of research and no
restrictions or regulations.

However, Virginia was content to remain where she was for a short time.
There was little point in making an abrupt change just then. Any moment
that danger threatened Virginia knew that she could escape to Earth
Three and be safe. Her decision to remain was based upon her lifetime
of training on Earth Two.

Regardless of any decision to eschew a former life, the training of a
lifetime will remain. That Virginia had no intention of remaining on
Earth Two did not remove her interest in the main problem of her life.
Bronson had some theories that were interesting. Therefore Virginia was
content to remain and learn all she could.

Such knowledge might come in handy at a later date.

       *       *       *       *       *

Leader Kingston leaned back against a counter and regarded his cohorts
with a cold stare. Maddox growled in his throat and the three guards
cowered because theirs had been a crime punishable by death for
hundreds of years.

"Well," asked Maddox, "what do we do now?"

"The first thing," said Kingston sharply, "is to locate ourselves."

"That shouldn't be hard," said Maddox, looking around. Kingston nodded,
regarding his wrist watch.

"It is near-morning in New Mexico," he said. "Where we are now is
midnight."

"It's also cold--and that lettering on the window is Russian. We are
in eastern Siberia."

Kingston made some calculations. "We're lucky at that," he said. "So
long as morning comes in Washington before morning comes here we are
in no great danger. The fact is," he added, regarding his watch once
more, "that the monitors will be taking up their regular duty in a few
minutes. Otherwise we might have no end of trouble."

Maddox shrugged. A pajama-clad man has little dignity and very little
authority. To be trapped in a foreign country--one whose politics
differ from your own--under highly suspicious circumstances might well
result in a long period of enforced inactivity. Bronson had been in a
hurry when he had performed the shipping operation. Had he taken time
to think it over, Bronson would have sent them to some place where
their arrival would have brought them instant apprehension.

But Bronson had been in a hurry and his only desire was to ship them
to some spot not fitted with instant means of escape. He would have
preferred some place where no space-resonant element existed but that
was impossible since the technique demanded a focal mass.

"So," said Kingston, showing Maddox the silvery-metal band on his
wrist, "as soon as the monitors take over and locate me, we'll--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He disappeared in mid-sentence and Maddox followed a few seconds later.
The guards vanished at regular intervals, leaving the Russian store
vacant once again.

Minutes later Kingston and Maddox emerged from a standard transmission
building not far from the site of the laboratory. Maddox was puzzling
openly. "Bronson has probably ripped the tuning circuit from my
receiver," he said. "But what would that gain him?"

"Only a few minutes more time," said Kingston. "Instead of our landing
back home again, we must use a standard line and walk a few squares.
I--look!"

"Heaven!" breathed Maddox.

The laboratory site was, naturally, vacant.

"I didn't think it possible," said Maddox.

"But where did he take it?" wondered Kingston.

"Who knows?" said Maddox, spreading his hands.

"We can find out but it will take time. My guess is Earth Two
somewhere. He'd be a fool to stay here where he can be found easily."

"It wouldn't be too easy if Bronson has hashed up the keyed tuning
circuit," grunted Maddox angrily. "Confound it, that reduces the
problem to one of searching two worlds for the right mass of elements."

Kingston shook his head. "We're about ready," he said. "Give us another
week or so and we can eliminate all opposition." His face hardened. "In
fact, we can start to spread the atomic fire on Earth Two at any time."

They turned back to the standard transmission building and returned to
Washington. There was nothing they could do without the laboratory and
there were other, well-equipped laboratories in Washington. Actually,
so far as the operations in the space-resonant bands were concerned,
location meant very little. It had been merely convenient to locate in
Maddox's place.

Once returned to Kingston's official building, the leader set his
operatives to checking the supercritical masses in the vain hope of
locating one of them that existed in the stolen laboratory.

Bronson's statement that he wanted a detector did not mean
none existed. All forms of communication require the two main
components--generator and detector. Kingston's men, to track down the
stolen laboratory, merely tuned through the space-resonant bands,
stopping every time they hit a response so that they could check the
neighborhood visually.

What Bronson wanted was not a mere detector. He wanted some means
of knowing definitely when the subcritical masses of his own
space-resonant elements were reassembled. This is comparable to a
device that will register whenever a radio transmitter is turned on,
regardless of frequency or location.

Bronson knew that the tuning qualities of the space-resonant effects
depended mostly on the mass of the crystals. He knew the mass of his
own stuff but that had been formed to serve as fluorescent material
and the amount of the space-resonant elements in that mass was
uncertain--especially in view of the fact that Earth One was still to
learn of the space-resonant bands.

So Bronson's knowledge of the mass of his own crystal did not include
the proportion of these new elements and therefore he had little
knowledge of how the divided masses would resonate.

It was quite a project--but it had to be done.




                             CHAPTER XIII

                          _To Find the Plan_


Cautiously, Virginia entered the laboratory and peered over Ed
Bronson's shoulder. "What are those?" she asked.

"Amplifiers," he explained. "I'm hoping to locate the subcritical
masses."

Virginia looked dubious. "Where did you get them?" she asked.

He grinned boyishly, "Stole 'em. I searched the laboratories of Earth
Three and came up with four of their best. Earth Three does have some
advantages."

"Most of them, I fear," said Virginia.

"Yeah, but there's something wrong there."

Virginia asked, "What can be wrong with that kind of technical advance?"

"It isn't only their technical perfection that is wrong. That is fine,
and something that Earth One will achieve in the due course of time.
There's something else--something basic. Maybe," he grinned, "it is
feminine intuition, but it has to be there."

Bronson nodded firmly and then turned to his amplifiers. The closer one
he turned upside down on the table and looked into for a time. Then,
absently, Bronson reached for a screwdriver and probed into the chassis
with the business end.

Virginia gave a cry, "No!"

[Illustration: "No!" cried Virginia, as Bronson probed into the
apparatus.]

"No?" he echoed, turning slightly to face her. "It's turned off."

Virginia paused. A moment of wait and her worry about Bronson would
have been over. After touching the charged electrode in the way he was
about to do, Virginia would have been alone and free to go to Earth
Three complete with the laboratory, or to wait and see whether One
or Three was successful in the imminent warfare and go to whichever
emerged victorious.

She knew that Bronson was quite capable of isolating both of them
after collecting the only mass of space-resonant elements on Earth
One. He would do that as a last resort to save the rest of his world,
regardless of whether he received any acclaim or not. And death would
be his reward. For once Earth One was safe, Two and Three would perish
and both of them with it.

Yet Virginia found admiration in her heart for this man. Bronson,
against great odds, had succeeded in coming this far. He may have made
an error in his belief that there was something fundamentally wrong
with Earth Three but, none the less, he was possessed of a certain
drive and purpose that made her admire him.

"All right, Ed," she told him. "I know more about those amplifiers than
I could possibly know had I been truly of Earth One."

He turned and faced her slowly.

"I am Virginia--Carlson," she said.

"Carlson?"

"Carlson. I am the woman you contacted with your hybrid space
resonator." Then came the rest of the story from beginning to end.
"Curse me if you feel like it, Ed Bronson, but what normal human being
would care to spend the rest of her life on a dying world--or to open
the door of a fine world to the hapless, horrible mutants who have no
future beyond their own life-endings?"

Bronson nodded. "I am no judge," he said solemnly. "Offhand it seems
wrong to abandon one's friends for one's own safety. But if one cannot
really save one's friends from their horrible fate it seems foolish to
remain and die through mere loyalty. It's like that old saw about a
live coward being better than a dead hero."

"Then you don't condemn me for seeking safety?"

"Who am I to judge?" he said.

"But supposing Earth Three should be successful?"

"That would prove that Earth Three was best fit to survive. Not for
one moment, however, do I believe that some higher agency performed
this separation-trick to establish the most successful way of running a
world.

"Nature--by which I mean natural phenomena--offers survival's choice to
many forms of life and living in many ways, and this split in the time
stream is but one of them. I swear that we shall know why it happened
some day.

"But, Virginia, I am not to arbitrate your life. I am inclined to think
that I might have done the same thing. In fact," he said humorously,
"I can find nothing really to be angry about. Even your little job of
shipping me to Earth Three resulted in our stealing this laboratory."

"But I sent you to Earth Two."

       *       *       *       *       *

He shook his head. "I arrived from my bedroom on Earth Three--the same
room but a nursery in Three's time trail."

"I saw the same room from half-transfer," she said, "and there was that
pillar of atomic fire in the sky."

Bronson blinked.

"So," he said with an explosive exhale of breath. "So the fission-train
in the earth will work on Earth Three as well as Two."

"What do you mean?" asked the girl.

"Kingston undoubtedly intends to transfer bits of the earth-fire from
Two to One and thus destroy both of them. That was a test. They brought
it, noted its performance on Three and then carefully shipped the thing
back again."

Virginia snorted angrily. "I'd like to ship the entire Alamogordo Fire
to Earth Three and let Kingston and Maddox roast!"

Bronson nodded. "But the thing that strikes me the hardest is that only
for that very instant of blast was there the chance for time-fission.
Then all three worlds have the same phenomena and the same effects. One
might think that Three would remain a place where no fission-explosion
could take place while on Two all atomic releases of power start the
endless fission in the earth."

"But does that help us any?"

"I don't know yet. But you'll help--now?"

"That I will--and willingly."

"Then tell me," said Bronson amusedly, "just what was I about to do?"

"You were about to touch a high-energy electrode that remains hot for
hours after the gear is turned off. One of the energizing circuits. It
charges itself with space-resonant energy that does not leak off--sort
of like a high-capacity condenser of excellent power factor. You can
charge it to lethal dose and it may remain so for hours unless it is
discharged."

"Why don't they discharge these, then?"

"It takes too long for them to load when they fire 'em up," explained
Virginia. "Usually they remain at high charge between 'off' periods."

Ed Bronson looked into the amplifier with a wry glance. "A little
knowledge is a dangerous thing," he grunted. He squinted at the
electrode, lifted an eyebrow and smiled cynically, "Y' know, there
ought to be some easy way of telling when a thing is dangerous.

"Once upon a time that which was dangerous came clearly labeled, like
fire, or sabretooth tigers. Later they had to pass laws to get folks to
put gasoline in red-coated cans. Nowadays practically anything you open
up is dangerous and unless you know what you're doing--"

Virginia smiled. She knew that he was just talking, rambling as he
scanned the circuit, wondering what to do next. Then she touched his
arm gently.

"Look, Ed," she said. "Let me take this job over. I know my way around
these things, even though they are of Earth Three instead of mine.
You've got other things to do, doubtless?"

Bronson looked at Virginia quizzically.

"Trust me?" she asked.

He smiled. "I think so," he said.

"You can," she said.

Bronson's smile faded. "Look, kiddo," he said, "there's one thing about
being just a little bit selfish that most of the books never get around
to mentioning. I'd prefer to have someone working beside me who is a
bit selfish and inclined to think of himself first.

"The guy who has--in capitals--a Mission In Life is all too inclined
to toss common sense into the ashcan so that his flanged-up ideals are
realized. At least you can predict the future course of any character
who is logical enough to think of himself.

"So--you've made your gesture and until someone convinces me that a bit
of selfishness is absolutely wrong--g'wan!" He grinned. "Go to work so
that I can stop sounding like a philosopher."

Virginia looked at him soberly for some moments.

"You don't question the fact that I will grab for the winner?"

"We all hope to play a winner, ginger-girl," he said.

"Yes, but--"

"Virginia, you hope to play a winner. Do you greatly care who really
wins so long as all is serene, happy, and peaceful?"

"Only one more requisite," she said wistfully, "I'd like to have it
remain that way."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bronson laughed. "It has been adequately pointed out often enough that
the gents who formulated the Declaration of Independence guaranteed
only the right to 'pursue' happiness. It is a hopeless quest to seek
complete peace and quiet."

"Don't talk like that," she said. "I only meant that I'm not too
convinced that your idea about Earth Three having something definitely
wrong with it--"

Ed Bronson reached forward and put one hand on each of her shoulders.
"Look, youngster," he said with a smile, "I'm no hero. I'm not imbued
with the spirit of altruism and self-righteous self-sacrifice."

Virginia looked into his eyes solemnly. "You would have little
hesitation before you isolated yourself here on Earth One if--"

"Only because I am dead certain that there is something basically wrong
with Earth Three."

Virginia smiled. "As a not-too-innocent bystander," she said seriously,
"I'm little sold either way. Earth Two is doomed. That I know because
I saw Earth One. But having been trained to the idea of scientific
research, I'm inclined to think that Earth Three with its freedom is
the right answer.

"Who knows," she continued bitterly, "how many times we might have been
close to something that might have led the way to life but were stopped
because of an arbitrary decision by someone who felt--by some personal
logic--that the phase of science held no answer."

"There is one idea," he said half humorously, "that anything
taken without a bit of moderation is not too good. Oh, there are
exceptions. One can always find something that must not be taken in
moderation--honesty or faith, for instance--in order for the best to
evolve. But any pendulum swings from extreme to extreme. And you have
been living in an order of one extreme. You naturally think the other
extreme is better."

"You wouldn't be generalizing when you claim that Earth Three is wrong
somewhere? That you think that Earth Three is too extreme?"

"Extremity, per se, may not be bad," he said. "It is what takes place
under extremity that might be dangerous. No, Ginger, I'm baffled right
now but you can be certain that, before we get to the end of all this,
we'll know the answer."

Virginia smiled. "We seem to have come a long way from the original
argument."

"Oh yes." He grinned back at her. "We're both in a mell of a hess right
now. It would be a fine thing if we couldn't trust one another. All you
seem to want is a secure future and all I want is the same. That we
seem to think that this secure future lies in opposite directions is
the same factor that makes horse racing interesting. And, like horse
racing, we'll find out soon enough who is right."

"I hope it isn't the hard way."

"Virginia, you are willing to take a job on this stuff. You're
therefore willing to help the side you think cannot win?"

"If anything is done to aid either side," she said, "and it comes out
properly, isn't that a sign that the winning side has every right to
succeed?"

"Defining 'A' in terms of 'A'?"

"No. I'm just willing to help get myself away from the certain doom of
Earth One."

"In other words," said Ed Bronson, "you'd work as hard for Leader
Kingston as you would for me?"

She looked at him squarely. "Ed," she said, "I wouldn't care to trust
Leader Kingston." Then she turned from him, shrugged her shoulder out
from beneath his hands and faced the upturned amplifier. Beneath the
wreath of her hair he noted the blush that tinted the back of her neck.

Bronson took a half step forward. His hands half reached for her
shoulders again. Then he paused.

"I'm going to check the mass spectrograph," he said and turned on his
heel and left the room.

This, he knew, was no time to question her motives.

As he headed for the laboratory below, this thought crystallized.
Questioning her motives would force quick judgment. He knew--and he
wondered how he arrived at that sage opinion--that Virginia herself was
not aware of the motives that made her keep him from a certain death
and now caused her to help him.




                              CHAPTER XIV

                             _Explosive!_


Now it was silent in the computation laboratory, save for the
occasional clicking of the super calculator that lined one wall of the
room. Pages and pages of equations were piled high in the file box and
Bronson sat in the control console of the big machine and worked. Hour
after hour he alternated moments of quick activity over the keyboard
with periods of quiet contemplation and reasoning as the answers to his
mathematical problems came clicking back.

Dimly he heard the door open behind him and he accepted it
vaguely--disinterestedly--because the problem at hand was far more
important. He felt her presence beside him and she was silent as she
read his notes.

He set up another problem on the keyboard and leaned back, looking up
at her.

"Found something?" she asked.

"No," he replied. "Except that the space-resonant elements do not make
sense in the mass spectrograph."

"I know," she said. "We've known that for years."

Bronson waved a book. "And I'm a little shocked at the lack of true
basic research to be found on Earth Three."

"What?" asked Virginia.

"It seems as though they know a lot," he explained. "But they know
no more about this stuff than the nineteen hundreds knew about the
electricity they used."

"That's natural," she said. "People are always willing to use something
beneficial though they know little about its basic fundamentals. One
out of a thousand automobile drivers really knows anything about the
internal combustion engine. The rest are merely drivers, controlling a
mammoth they know nothing about."

"Well, perhaps," he said. "Also it is entirely possible that what I'm
seeking has no true answer."

"You hope to learn why the space-resonant elements cannot be separated?"

"Right," said Bronson. He was silent for some time while he digested
the answer that had come clicking from the calculator. Then he sent
forth another equation and the machine went to work again. "I'd like to
try analysis."

"Won't work. As far as we can tell there is really only one element."

"By analysis," he nodded. He had been reading what Earth Three knew
about it and they, too, said as much. "However, the mass spectrograph
separates elements according to their atomic masses and according to
their atomic charge.

"Now why do we have a dispersion of atomic mass--making the
space-resonant series of elements seem to be merely isotopes of the
same element--and at the same time get a dispersion of atomic charge,
which would make them seem like isobars of different elements?"

"Heaven knows what we can expect in the transuranic series," observed
Virginia.

He grunted. "Run down the physical properties of the stable elements,"
he said, "and you'll run into about every conceivable idea. Metals that
melt at room temperature, metals that resist acid and alkali.

"Metals that conduct electricity in proportion to the light falling on
them, elements that combine with almost any other element--and elements
so valently self-satisfied that they will not even combine with
themselves. Elements as hard as all get-out and others that can be cut
into stove lengths with a soft thumbnail.

"But," he continued reflectively, "I'm of the opinion that the answer
lies here--that this indivisible property of the space-resonant
elements is the answer to a lot of questions."

Then Bronson put his head in his hands. "And I'm supposed to find out
all this to save my world--when the best brains of that same world in
another time-plane have known about the stuff for thirty years and
still cannot--"

"That is not fair," she said. "After all, how many years did Enrico
Fermi seek the answer for his experiments with the fission of uranium?
They numbered a good many transuranic elements before they discovered
that these new elements were actually the fissioned products and were
well-known elements halfway down the atomic chart."

"That's true," he nodded. "Also it is against all theory that an
element should display more than one atomic identity."

"Right. Unless they are incomplete atoms--a house built of brickbats."

Bronson shrugged. "I'm trying that."

"How?" puzzled Virginia.

"I've got the mass spectrograph running again but each slit is loaded
to the scuppers with neutron absorber."

"What do you expect?" asked Virginia.

"I don't really know. I sort of hope it may lead to something. Come
on--let's try it."

Taking his last three pages of calculations, Ed Bronson led the way to
the analytic laboratory....

       *       *       *       *       *

Leader Kingston smiled grimly at Maddox and shoved the button home.
"That'll fix 'em!" he said savagely.

On Earth Two the pillar of fire flickered a measurable bit--and the
downtown district of New York City vomited flame in a thunderous roar.
To the stratosphere billowed the ice cap, followed instantly by an
up-reaching column of incandescent gas.

Into the vitals of the rock the gnawing atomic flame went and
perceptibly--perceptibly to some all-powerful deity that could
withstand a holocaust which put the sun to shame--the crater expanded
as the substance of Earth Two fed the atomic flame.

Kingston set the steering control once more and shoved the button.
The Mall between the Washington Monument and the Capitol erupted in
another atomic cancer to feed on Earth Two. The buildings that lined
the Mall were blasted to bits--the National Archives, the Smithsonian
Institution, all of them gone in one mighty blast.

Then, as the fury of blast subsided, the pillar of fire undulated to
the sky. It fed, then, on the inert substance of a dead city for, as in
Manhattan, no man remained alive to see.

With cruel disregard for humanity, Leader Kingston set the dials once
more and the acres of land enclosed by Chicago's Loop roared skyward.
The edges of the crater rimmed Lake Michigan and the waters of the lake
began to pour toward the breach. They did not reach the ravening crater
for they turned into steam long before they could fall across the lip
of the crater.

From Lake Bluff to Gary the lake-front was a scene of molten death.

"That's but the beginning," said Kingston. "Four will become eight
and eight will become sixteen. It will not be long before they are
reaching one another."

"You'll have a lot of the space-resonant crystals to pass along to
Earth One, though," said Maddox.

"We will apply the same principle," said Kingston. "One brings two
and each brings two more. My men on Earth One will assemble the four
subcritical masses tomorrow for instructions," said Kingston. "This is
the one weak link. But once we start, we can move the stuff like fury."

"What do you fear?" asked Maddox.

"Bronson! He has your laboratory. Complete. He is well hidden somewhere
and, until we can locate him, we are treading on dangerous ground. For
I know that he is keeping an eye on everything we do. And until we
locate him we can do nothing."

"Why doesn't he do something, then?"

Kingston laughed bitterly. "Probably because he doesn't quite know what
to do."

Maddox grinned. "Also because you've got the key to Earth One. And," he
said grimly, "it might be that he has been ignorant until just now when
you've shown him how to fight this war."

Kingston whitened in fear. He shook his fist at the flaming horror on
the viewer plate and said, "I wish Bronson were in that!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Virginia Carlson reeled back from the viewer with a cry. Bronson left
his work and came to stand beside her.

"What?" he asked.

Slowly Virginia shook her head. "Kingston has just transmitted a bit of
the atomic flame to New York," she said.

Bronson made the natural error. To him, New York was New York and he
considered no other city. What stopped him was the belief that Kingston
could not transmit anything across the barrier without the presence of
a focal mass.

"How?" he asked Virginia.

"With the space resonator," she said.

"But there is no focal mass."

"In New York?" replied Virginia in surprise. "There must be several
thousand."

"But--oh! It was the New York of Earth Two."

"Yes."

Bronson looked out of the window and shook his head. "I find it
difficult to believe that this terrain is not my own world," he said.
"And yet it is, in a sense."

Then he turned from the window to face Virginia. "Ginger-girl," he said
slowly, "I know what is wrong with Earth Three!"

Virginia swung the steering control swiftly until a distant view of New
York was visible. "That is what is wrong with Earth Three," she said
bitterly. "Avaricious, hateful and cruel."

Bronson shook his head. "You're not fair," he said. "He's done nothing
that you or I would not do to protect our own worlds. And," smiled
Bronson, "remember that Earth Two is already doomed."

Virginia whirled on him. "Because a man is slated to die as all men
are, is that an excuse to commit murder?"

"No," he said. "But life is still a matter of the survival of the
fittest. I deplore Kingston's act but remember that Kingston knows that
it is either kill or be killed."

"Then there is nothing wrong with Earth Three," snapped Virginia with
deep bitterness.

"Oh but there is. Virginia, on your world, where every scientific
endeavour is directed along the one line of safety in the face of that
pillar of fire at Alamogordo, does your government know the location of
all equipment?"

"Of course," she said. "Save for a very minute percentage of stuff that
has been lost, strayed or stolen."

He turned to the screen. "Did anybody ever think of that?" he asked,
pointing to the fire that was consuming Manhattan.

"Yes--but where would we put it?" she asked.

"On the moon," he said simply.

"But there is no focal mass of space resonant elements on the moon,"
she objected.

"There could have been," he said, "if Earth Two had proceeded to
develop the rocket! But no, since no planet is habitable."

"That isn't all," said Virginia. "Earth Three has developed the
transmission resonator to the highest degree. We've never been able to
speed it up. They can transmit anything in a matter of microseconds.
Ours takes hours sometimes.

"Remember, if we start to shove that pillar of raw energy through a
resonator of our type we must build it to withstand raw atomic energy
for a long period. But tell me what is wrong with Earth Three."

       *       *       *       *       *

He frowned. "Remember the day I nearly killed myself because I was
poking into an amplifier without knowing all about it?"

"Yes."

"In similar sense, Earth Three is plunging forward into a sea of
uncharted danger. Rapid progress in the face of high competition.
No control whatsoever. In the cast of Earth Two, progress has been
hampered because it has had too much control.

"Had you been free to tinker and investigate the transmission bands
you'd have discovered Earth Three and you might have had the idea of
rotating that Alamogordo Flame into Earth Three.

"As of now, Virginia, tell me--could Earth Two reduce all of its
space-resonant elements to subcritical masses in a case of danger?"

"We could, save for those that were lost, as I've said before."

Bronson smiled cryptically. "Can Leader Kingston?"

Virginia shook her head. She recalled the myriad uses that Earth Three
had developed for the space resonant elements. Each home with many
devices, each device containing a supercritical mass.

To eliminate entirely all critical masses of the dangerous elements
would be the exact equal to a complete breakdown of all means of
transportation and communication. For the space resonator had replaced
in nearly all but isolated cases the common automobile, telephone,
train, radio and allied arts.

Such a project was impossible to contemplate, and even less possible to
accomplish in any reasonable time. It would require the rebuilding of
the former modes of life--almost a return to horse-and-buggy days.

"But every science has its danger," objected Virginia.

Bronson nodded. "But remember that every science grows like a tree. One
does not start on a high technical plane."

"But what has that to do with it?"

"Just this," explained Bronson patiently, "In earlier days no man could
develop anything too dangerous to his fellows if it got out of hand.
Many embryonic chemists have left the face of the earth in a gout of
smoke and flame but, when they left, they took only a small section of
the neighborhood with them.

"Here, then, we have Alamogordo and the Bomb. It took the combined
resources of a nation, its people and years of study and work to
develop the atomic bomb. Obviously this is no backyard project like the
nitration of glycerine.

"But here we have Earth Three," he continued, "plunging forward without
control--a juggernaut with no one at the helm. In their homes, in their
laboratories, in their very lives, they have supercritical masses of
the space-resonant elements. Leader Kingston has just shown us how he
hopes to destroy both Earth One and Two to leave Three supreme."

"In doing that he has given us the answer we seek. For in his attack,"
said Bronson exultantly, "he has displayed not only his weakness but
the fundamental weakness of a culture based upon complete freedom. Not
that freedom is wrong. Freedom is an ideal, and complete freedom will
be attained only when every man can assume the responsibility of being
noble."

"I'm not quite certain," said Virginia.

Bronson laughed. "How long would it be before one of Kingston's men
discover the secret of unlocking the energy of the atom with a gadget
the size of your wrist watch? Hah! Every man his own atom-bomb!" he
snorted. "Well, remember this, Virginia, on Earth Three every chunk of
space-resonant material is more deadly than the Alamogordo Flame!"




                              CHAPTER XV

                          _Moment of Crisis_


Grinning wolfishly, Bronson spoke.

"The next problem," he said, "is the job of getting back to Earth One."

"How can we?"

"Who has the key?" Bronson asked.

"Kingston."

"Then we proceed to grab Leader Kingston and apply bamboo splinters
under the fingernails or place a rat on his bare tummy, placing a bowl
on top of the rat, and then building a small fire on top of the bowl.
In other words, we shall--ah--urge is the word--urge him to reveal his
method of getting in touch with his bunch on Earth One."

Virginia shuddered.

Bronson turned to the steering controls and located Kingston. Then,
standing near the focal volume, Bronson motioned for the girl to throw
the switch. Kingston appeared instantly and, before the Leader could
get his wits together, Ed Bronson swung a heavy fist with all the power
of his big body behind it. Kingston went down like a log.

He awakened to the drenching of cold water from a bucket. He strained
against adhesive tape and glared.

"Take it easy, Kingston," said Bronson. "I've got the controls set to
drop you into the Alamogordo Flame if you get nasty."

Kingston paled.

"What I want from you is the key to Earth One!"

"That you'll never get!"

"Yes I will."

"No you won't."

Bronson snorted. "Want to make a little bet? You can save yourself a
lot of grief if you give in right now. Or would you rather be screaming
for mercy later?"

"What can you do?" sneered Kingston.

Bronson chuckled. "The Chinese are accused of developing a number of
fancy tortures," he said. "I've also known a fiction writer who used an
incident to show the strength of his character's will power.

"This fellow, who used to tinker with radio on the side, decided that
any man who could grab a couple of hundred volts and not quiver a
muscle because a sudden motion would be as deadly, would be displaying
a nervous control seldom realized. Now I'd guess his idea to have been
impossible. But it gives me to think.

"Do you suppose you could stand a mild electrocution? Say a hundred
volts at twenty cycles? Not enough to kill, for we'll insert a
current-limiting resistance to prevent electrocution, but enough to
make life most uncomfortable. The torture of the condemned will have
nothing on what you will suffer, Kingston."

Kingston smiled wearily. "It will do you no good," he said. "The thing
is set up like the time lock on a safety vault. No one can breach it."

"Big talk," snorted Bronson. He turned from the bound man and rummaged
in a bench drawer for wire and parts. A variable-voltage transformer,
some alternating current meters and a few lengths of wire were strewn
over the table top. Bronson began to connect them into a circuit.

"We'll find out how your resistance is," he told Kingston over his
shoulder.

Kingston laughed nastily, Virginia screamed. Bronson whirled--and
Kingston was gone!

Bronson leaped to the viewer controls and spun the dial to Kingston's
official quarters. The viewer showed a technician just in the act of
spinning the steering dials in a random whirl like a man locking a
combination safe.

Kingston fell a-sprawl, still bound, against Maddox, who had come with
him. Maddox removed the bonds and Kingston fingered the amulet on his
wrist with pride. "That was quick," he said.

"Had to be," said Maddox. "I knew that the instant you disappeared from
Bronson's laboratory he'd leap to the viewer to see your laboratory.
So once you arrived, we both came here and Tony spun the dials so that
Bronson can't follow us by reading the calibration."

"That isn't all," chuckled Kingston. "Now we know how to reach Bronson!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Bronson turned from the controls unhappily. "How did he do that?" he
asked plaintively.

Virginia shook her head. "Wrong culture or no," she said, "Earth Three
seems to take all the tricks."

Bronson nodded wearily. He put head in hands and worried visibly--and
was taken out of it when a bell tinkled on the wall. Bronson leaped to
his feet with a shout.

"Maybe we're not licked yet," he said. "That was the automatic mass
spectro-analyzer."

He left the room and returned quickly with a sheaf of papers.

"They call 'em space-resonant," he said with a wry chuckle, "but I call
'em symbiotic."

"Meaning?"

"Why, it seems as though we have a closed system of radioactivity
here," he said.

"But the space-resonant elements are only faintly radioactive,"
objected Virginia.

"According to outside detectors," he said. "But this is an internally
closed system. There are two basic elements and two isotopes of each,
all operating in a closed system."

"How?"

He handed her a sheet of paper containing nuclear equations.

1.) 121^{A^(279)} + 0^{n^1} ----> 121^{A^(280)}

2.) 121^{A^(280)} - 1^{e^0} ----> 122^{B^(280)}

3.) 122^{B^(280)} - 0^{n^1} ----> 122^{B^(279)}

4.) 122^{B^(279)} + 1^{e^0} ----> 121^{A^(279)}

"Call 'em 'A' and 'B', with respective atomic number of one hundred
and twenty-one and one hundred and twenty-two and respective atomic
weights of two hundred and seventy-nine and two hundred and eighty," he
explained. "Then Element A absorbs a neutron, becoming heavy Element A
since its atomic weight is increased by one.

"The heavy Element A then emits a negative electron which raises the
nuclear charge by one and the element becomes Element B. Element B then
emits a neutron which makes it light Element B.

"Light Element B captures an electron lowering the nuclear charge and
retransmuting the element back to normal Element A. The neutrons and
electrons are passed back and forth within the mass and seldom escape,
therefore the space-resonant elements are believed to be only mildly
radioactive."

"Yes?"

Miles away and across the barrier in time Kingston and Maddox listened
avidly.

"So we can guess what happened at Alamogordo," said Bronson exultantly.

"I don't see it," she said.

"Well, Element A is so avid an absorber of neutrons that a microscopic
impurity will destroy the K-factor of a supercritical mass of plutonium
or uranium," he said. "That would prevent the Alamogordo Bomb from
exploding."

"Element B, on the other hand, emits a torrent of neutrons, enough
to raise the K-factor to a terribly high degree, which caused such
violence that the bomb was hot enough to start fission in the earth. A
balance of the elements A and B cancels out and therefore we have the
normal explosion experienced in Earth One."

"But how did it happen?"

"When the subcritical masses of uranium came together on Alamogordo
Day, the fission started throughout the mass. Also present--we know
now--is the capture of neutrons by unfissioned atoms which raise
the element's mass, and the other fission products hitting this
element raise its charge. Space-resonant elements resulted in those
sub-microseconds of initial fission.

"So, in one section of the mass, an abundance of Element A was
produced, which stopped the explosion. In another section, Element B
was produced, which increased its violence. Now the energies produced
within the fissioning bomb are high enough to cause a warp in the
space-time continuum. This warp permitted one section to die out while
the other increased almost without limit."

"I'm beginning to understand," nodded Virginia. "We then had three
different levels of energy."

"And three widely-varied levels of entropy," added Bronson. "So widely
varied that they could not exist in the same time-space plane. Thus the
fission in time that produced the three time-planes. How widespread
these areas of separation extend we may never know.

"All I can assume is that space-time is strained and will return as
soon as the energy put into the separation is used up. Sort of like
an upthrown stone," he mused. "It goes up until the energy put into
throwing it is used up against the force of gravity.

"Then it comes down--and the three time-planes separate until the
energy put into the separation was used up and then they begin to fall
toward one another."

Kingston turned to Maddox. "That also explains why no one knew of this
split for so long. And why it is getting easier and easier to cross the
barrier. The three time-planes are approaching one another."

Maddox nodded. "And that means that we must see the other time-planes
destroyed. If they come together and find interference--all will die!"

"Right," said Kingston. His hand fingered the button while his other
hand turned the steering control. Maddox looked into the viewer.
"Hurry!" he exploded. Kingston looked.

Ed Bronson was walking across the laboratory toward the transmission
panel, saying "... and that brings one thing to mind, Ginger. If they
grabbed Kingston they know where we are!"

He spun the controls quickly and pressed the button. At the same
instant Kingston pressed his own button. The viewplate that showed
Bronson and Virginia in Maddox's laboratory erupted in a holocaust of
flame that blinded Kingston and Maddox.

"Did we?" asked Kingston, rubbing his eyes.

"We can't know," said Maddox. "But look. If we got them we can find
out."

"How?"

"Collect your space-resonant elements on Earth One," said Maddox.
"Then send another set across and use one of them to erupt Central
City--right where Bronson's home is."

"What good will that do?" asked Kingston.

"We can watch it," explained Maddox. "And if it is returned to Earth
Two, we'll know that Bronson is alive somewhere and watching."

Kingston nodded with a smile of appreciation.

       *       *       *       *       *

The laboratory building was askew, its windows shattered and its outer
surface scarred. It had been close. Perhaps the only thing that saved
them was the fact that they were closer to the focal volume of the
transmitter in the laboratory than Kingston was.

At any rate the unbelievably microscopic instant of the beginning of
the atomic flame intended to destroy them utterly had been all that
building caught. For Bronson had sent it skirling into time-space and
it was on the way out as the glimmering of deadly flame started to come
in.

But that brief touch of incandescent death had charred the woodwork of
the outside of the building. It had cracked the glass and it had jarred
its very structure.

The inhabitants were in bad shape. Bronson was sprawled on the floor.
Virginia was crumpled over a desk. Both were unconscious. And, creeping
deeper into their skin, was the ruddy color of bad burn.

Hours later they were dark with burn and still unconscious. They knew
nothing.

They did not know that Kingston's men on Earth One were beginning
to assemble the masses in Ed Bronson's collection of radioisotopic
phosphor.

Then a bell tinkled gently. Bronson stirred and groaned. The bell
tinkled once more. Bronson stirred again--painfully. Another tinkle--

Virginia awakened, opened her eyes vaguely and wondered what had
happened.

The bell rang insistently. "Ed--Ed Bronson!" she shouted. "The
detector!"

"Detector?" he asked dully.

"They're assembling the space-resonant elements on Earth One!"

The bell broke into an insistent clamoring. Ed picked himself from
the floor and looked at the gear. The cascaded amplifiers, incapable
of detecting the presence of subcritical masses on Earth One, had
sufficient gain to trigger the alarm when Earth One's bits of space
resonant elements were collected into critical mass.

Bronson spun the dials of the viewer.

There before him was the familiar laboratory of his own home and four
men standing before his bench, upon which stood the crystalline mass.

"Now!" breathed Ed Bronson.




                              CHAPTER XVI

                          _A World at Stake_


Uncertainly Virginia paused. "Ed," she said.

"Huh?" he asked, turning.

"You're going to--"

"I must."

She smiled and took a deep breath. Bronson looked at her quizzically.
It was obvious that something had happened that had pleased her--or
convinced her of something, but what it might be eluded him.

"Look, Ginger, we haven't much time. I've got to get going--and you
know what to do."

She nodded, her eyes bright and intent upon him. "Ed," she said in a
quiet voice, "I've been both selfish and opportunist, wanting security
at any price. But you are willing to trust me with the future of Earth
One. That, too, proves the worth of--worth of--of--"

"Forget it," he said softly. "If we win it will prove the right of
Earth One to survive."

Then he turned to the machine again. "I've got to go!"

She came up behind him, turned him around and kissed him. "Go," she
said. "And as you go, Ed, remember that I've made up my mind. I'm going
with you--all the way!"

He smiled down at her. "I know," he said cryptically. Then he turned
and snapped the button.

He landed in his own laboratory amid the four minions of Kingston. The
suddenness of his appearance sent them flying in four directions. He
whirled and reached for the assembled blocks of the space-resonant
elements on the bench, to separate them again.

He was hit from behind by one of the thugs and staggered against the
bench. Then the other three were upon him.

Only Bronson's sheer size and physical power saved him from instant
annihilation. He fought them off, hitting them hard but taking a
murderous amount of punishment. He kicked one away, traded blows with
the second, turned to drive a hard fist into the face of the third--and
nearly fell forward on his face as the blow passed through nothing!

[Illustration: Bronson tried desperately to fight off the thugs.]

In the big laboratory on Earth Two Virginia coldly and viciously
clubbed Kingston's hired hand over the back of the head with a heavy
end-wrench as the fellow was still staggering forward from the effort
against Bronson.

Bronson blinked and recovered from his stagger. He lashed out at
the nearest, just as Virginia grabbed another to give him the same
treatment. One of the two remaining jerked a gun from his pocket and
fired wildly. Bronson ducked under the gun hand and shouldered the thug
cruelly in the pit of the stomach.

The gun dropped to the floor and there was a three-way dive for it.
Bronson cracked his head against the nearer man's jaw, drove a fist
into the other's face, and grabbed the wrist of the first one again. A
gun appeared in the second man's hand.

Bronson jerked the wrist and the man staggered forward in front of
Bronson just as the other thug fired. Ed felt the man's body twitch and
he coldly lifted a foot, set it in the small of the stricken man's back
and hurled him forward against the gun wielder. Behind him went Bronson
but the gun wielder disappeared.

Virginia's quick end-wrench came down hard and then she had three of
them lined up on the floor, taped helplessly with adhesive tape.

She scribbled a quick note and sent it through--and an instant later
Bronson had the mass of crystals separated into their four parts.

He breathed deeply as he read the note. It did present a problem. He
had one corpse on his hands and three other undesirables collected in
the laboratory on Earth Two. Also, here he was safe on Earth One again
with the crystals separated. He held the key to security!

But there was Earth Three, still whole and alive. How simple it would
have been to ignore Three--Bronson admitted that Virginia might have
had to suffer the fortunes of war if the fate of an entire world rested
upon the decision.

But Bronson knew that, unless two of the three worlds were
exterminated, all would die in a cosmic explosion when they began to
reappear on the same time-plane.

Furthermore, he knew that Kingston was quite prepared to maintain a
viewer on each of Ed Bronson's sections of crystal until they were
reassembled again. For the very key that opened the portal was as
deadly as the Alamogordo Flame....

A hard knock came at the door. Ed turned, puzzled, and went through his
house to open it.

Captain Norris of the police strode into the room with a sour
expression.

"What are you running here?" he demanded. "Where are the four birds
that came in here a few minutes ago. Where have you been?"

Norris strode through the house until he came to the laboratory.
He looked down at the body of Kingston's henchman and his eyebrows
beetled. "This smacks of murder," he said flatly.

"It--"

"Self-defense," said Norris sourly. "Tell it to the judge." He looked
around. "Where are the other three?"

"See here, Norris," snapped Bronson. "When I came to you about the
invaders of earth you slapped me in the booby hatch. What would you say
if I gave you proof?"

"It will have to be mighty good," snapped Norris.

From separate pockets Ed Bronson took the four bits of crystal. He set
them side by side on the bench.

"Virginia," he said, knowing that she was listening. "Now!"

       *       *       *       *       *

And his hands scooped the crystals together.

"Who are you--hey!" exploded Norris. They had come across the barrier
and were standing in the laboratory building. In the viewer stood
Virginia Carlson. She smiled through at them and showed them that she
had once more separated the bits of crystal.

"What goes on?" Norris stormed.

"You are now on Earth Two," said Bronson. "And if you want to get back
play it smart."

"Don't threaten me--who are these?"

"Three thugs from Earth Three."

"Oh fine," jeered Norris. "This sounds like a real game. Now look--"

"You look," snapped Bronson. He set the controls and snapped the button
and the scene outside of the laboratory disappeared. In its place was a
tall pillar of flame.

"That," said Bronson, "is the pillar of atomic flame at Alamogordo,
caused on Earth Two by the original Manhattan Project experiment in
Nineteen forty-five." He spun the dials once more, and the city of
Washington was visible at a distance. Its pillar of flame roared high
into the sky. "That's Earth Two, Washington," he snapped at Norris.

"But what can you do?" asked Norris, completely dumbfounded.

"I can fight back--now," said Bronson harshly. "And you can sit in a
corner and figure out a means for a man to come to official quarters to
tell of an extra-space invasion without being clapped in the nuthouse!"

He turned from Norris and adjusted the steering controls.

His hand came down on the button.

And Earth Three Washington erupted in a massive incandescent flame.

Kingston shouted in anger as the report came. He twirled his own dials,
found a response and pressed the button.

He cried, "_Orders!_ Everyone possessing a Type One transmitter, help
spread the atomic fire on Earth Two!"

Out across the face of Earth Three went the orders and the mobilized
hundreds of thousands of people started their space resonators.

It was furious work. Bronson whirled the dials until the plane of view
looked down upon Earth Two from several thousand miles above. From this
point, Bronson knew that Kingston--from whatever hideout he was in--was
directing a full-scale attack against Earth Two. The lights twinkled
like a field of fireflies.

Bronson knew that his own attempts were pitiful against Kingston's
massed attack.

Maybe Virginia was right. Maybe, in the final analysis Earth Three did
hold all the tricks and would win. But whether or not he won or lost
Bronson was going to fight to the bitter end. He directed his fire
against Earth Three--and saw two disappear as one flared forth.

Bitterly, Bronson nodded. Kingston was well staffed. He could without
difficulty set a number of his stations to the job of sending back
upon Earth Two the few fires that Bronson could start. He was one man
fighting a world well-armed--a gnat batting its head against a wall of
polished chromium steel.

Bronson stopped punching the button with a gesture of sheer futility.

And from the vantage point above Earth Two, his viewer showed a
spreading holocaust that threatened to cover the entire globe from
pole to pole. It would be but a matter of time before a gout of flame
and horror erased him and removed all resistance to Kingston's plans.
Switching the scene to Earth Three, Bronson saw that the pitifully few
dots of flame had been removed.

Which was right? A world playing with death in myriad or a world so
conservative that it had not advanced to the point where it could turn
the tables?

Bronson shook his head hopelessly.

The incandescent, flaming curtain almost obscured Earth Two now. The
sky was alight and the rumblings and roarings shook the rocks. Torrents
of wind howled back and forth and carried minute bits of the flame with
them, feeding on the very air that carried them. They landed and they
started their own fires in a million smaller craters.

Bronson shook his head. There was not much point in making even one
last gesture. He hit the control panel with his fist and slumped in his
chair. He took one last look at Earth Two and felt futility once more
at the spreading of the atomic horror.

And then Bronson sat bolt upright. A last gesture! Before he had rushed
in where angels fear to tread!

He looked at the equipment and shook his head. But equipment made well
can withstand a terrific overload for a brief time. Even the most
delicate of component parts require measurable time between application
of a tremendous overload and ultimate failure.

His left hand spun the dials and his right hand tuned the transmitter.

He hoped for a break--and he knew also that this was IT in capital
letters. If it worked he was the dead winner. If it failed he was
doomed to remain on Earth Two to watch the arrival of atomic death.

But he had no other choice. Facing death either way he'd best go out
making a try.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kingston grunted sourly at the visi-plate and pointed out a faint arc
at one edge. "What's that?" he asked. "Do we need a new tube at this
crucial moment?"

"No."

"Then what is it?"

Maddox turned the dials a bit and the arc came out of the frame clearly
enough to display a disc. Faint, unreadable, but none the less a
definite pattern.

Maddox looked at it carefully and then retreated the plane of view to
many thousands of miles into deep space. Right out to the limit of his
range he went.

And there were three discs, all of a size. One was, of course, the
flaming Earth Two.

"We're approaching!" yelled Kingston. "Those other discs are Earth One
and Three."

"But--"

"When their energy levels approach one another it will be unnecessary
to employ a depth of penetration correction!" snapped Kingston. "For
they'll all be on the same level."

"And when they do--we'll all go skyward."

The communicator clicked and Kingston read the tape. Then with a nasty
chuckle, Kingston spun the dials and looked in upon Ed Bronson. "Darn
few live pieces of element left on Two," sneered Kingston. "Made
picking him out so much easier!"

"Yes," said Maddox dubiously, "but what in the devil is he doing?"

"He's--heavens!" screamed Kingston. His hand stabbed for the button
like a striking snake.

And down upon Ed Bronson's stolen laboratory there descended a torrent
of raw energy. In through the space resonator it came and it should
have boiled out in the terrible holocaust that produced sunlike pillars
of roaring atomic destruction.

Instead, the sheer energy came roaring in through the supercritical
mass of space-resonant elements in Ed Bronson's stolen laboratory and
entered the transmitter circuits, which were wide open to accept--nay,
draw--all available energy from whatever source was available.

Into the circuits went the torrent of energy. It drove the focal
volume out and out and out even beyond Ed Bronson's faintest hope. It
expanded the volume and then energized the transmission circuits.

And Earth Two--atomic holocaust and all--disappeared from the
time-plane it had occupied for so many years. There was a
shrinking--but no one was there to record this collapse of the special
plane--and at once, a joining, and though it seemed as though Earth
One had come into full visibility, this impression was due to the
time-fields joining with the original plane.

       *       *       *       *       *

Virginia Carlson, alone and wondering on Earth One, alternately watched
her wrist watch and smoked furiously.

She watched the second hand creep to its appointed meeting with the top
of the dial, and she scooped the space-resonant elements into the palms
of her hands. This must be done quickly, so very swiftly lest Kingston
manage to get through with more than could be handled safely.

Zero!

Virginia clapped her hands together, creating an instantaneous
supercritical mass.

[Illustration: Virginia clapped her hands together and there was a
flash of flame.]

Intolerable heat burned her hands. There was a flash of flame that
blinded her and there was the rush and clatter of debris showering the
laboratory, shattering windows, and pelting her mercilessly. A heavy
something crashed against her skull and drove her to the floor.

Her eyes opened and the space-resonant crystals, crushed by the
impact, sifted through her inert fingers and mingled with the powdery
untouchably-hot debris that was inch-deep on the floor....

Leader Kingston's hand was stopped in mid-strike. He and his laboratory
flamed into instant incandescence as matter was rent to mix with the
raving splitting atoms of intolerable explosion.

For close were the temporal paths and the catastrophic energy of Earth
Two found its outlet through the myriad of open paths furnished by the
millions of commercially-used bits of space-resonant elements. From
each of the crystals there poured a torrent of overwhelming flame that
of itself formed more of the space-resonant elements.

The excess in entropy of Earth Two forced the transfer regardless of
true tuning--as a nearby radio station will blast through to audibility
regardless of the position of the dial--or, perhaps better, the excess
in entropy level sought the deficient level of entropy as a north
magnetic pole seeks the south magnetic pole. Water--or energy--finds
its own stable level.

So from the machines that employed space resonant elements on Earth
Three there poured the flaming substance and the excess of energy, to
spread in one mighty explosion that rent space itself, but died when
there was no more substance left to convert.

And with the release of the temporal strains, there came once more
that imperceptible withdrawal of strife in the cosmic planes. Now all
was at stable rest and there remained but one time-plane. That plane
contained Earth One and all that belonged to it.

It contained a man hurled back through the space-resonant transmission
equipment from Earth Two, from the one place where the atomic
destruction had yet to reach, to the one and only place upon Earth One
where space-resonant elements existed. And they alone had been tuned to
Ed Bronson's stolen equipment, and held in supercritical mass for that
bare instant of transfer by a woman's hands.

Burned, bruised and battered, Ed Bronson and Virginia Carlson would
soon awaken from their unconsciousness to look into one another's eyes
and wonder.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ONE OF THREE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
