The Project Gutenberg eBook of The hellflower, by George O. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The hellflower

Author: George O. Smith

Release Date: October 9, 2022 [eBook #69124]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HELLFLOWER ***





                            The HELLFLOWER

                              A Novel by
                            GEORGE O. SMITH

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Startling Stories, May 1952.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The book had been thrown at Charles Farradyne. Then they had added the
composing room, the printing press, and the final grand black smear
of printer's ink. So when Howard Clevis located Farradyne working in
the fungus fields of Venus four years later, Farradyne was a beaten
man who no longer burned with resentment because he was all burned
out. Farradyne looked up dully when Clevis came into the squalid
rooming-house.

"I am Howard Clevis," said the visitor.

"Fine," mumbled Farradyne. "So what?" He looked at one of the few white
shirts in a thousand miles and grunted disapprovingly.

"I've got a job for you."

"Who do you want killed?"

"Take it easy. You're the Charles Farradyne who--"

"Who dumped the Semiramide into The Bog ... and you're Santa Claus,
here to undo it?"

"This is on the level, Farradyne."

Farradyne laughed shortly, but the sound was all scorn and no humor.
While the raw bark was still echoing in the room, he added, "Can it,
Clevis. With a thousand licensed spacemen handy everywhere, willing to
latch onto an honest buck, any man that comes halfway across Venus to
offer Farradyne a job can't be on the level."

Clevis eyed Farradyne calculatingly. "I should think you might enjoy
the chance."

"It doesn't look good."

Clevis smiled calmly. He had the air of a man who knew what he was
doing. He was medium tall, with a sprinkle of gray in his hair and
determined lines near the eyes and across the forehead. There was
character in his face, strong and no doubt about it. "I'm here,
Farradyne, just because of the way it looks. But the fact is that I
need you. I know you're bitter, but--"

"Bitter!" roared Farradyne, getting to his feet and stalking across the
squalid room towards Clevis. "Bitter? My God! They haul me home on a
shutter so they can give me a fair trial before they kick me out. You
don't think I like it in this rat hole, do you?"

"No, I don't. But listen, will you?"

"Nobody listened to me, why should I listen to you?"

"Because I have something to say," said Clevis pointedly. "Do you want
to hear it?"

"Go ahead."

"I'm Howard Clevis of the Solar Anti-Narcotic Department."

Farradyne snorted. "Well, I haven't got any. I don't use any. And I
don't have much truck with those that do."

"Nobody is on trial here--nothing that you say can be used in any
way. That's why I came alone. Look ... if I were in your shoes I'd do
anything at all to get out of this muck-field."

"Some things even a bum won't do. And I don't owe you anything."

"Wrong. When you dumped the Semiramide into The Bog four years ago, you
killed one of our best operatives. We need you, Farradyne, and you owe
us for that. Now?"

"When I dumped the Semiramide no one would listen to me. Do you want to
listen to me now?"

"No, I don't."

"I got a raw deal."

"So did the man you killed."

"I didn't kill anybody!" yelled Farradyne.

       *       *       *       *       *

Clevis eyed Farradyne calmly, even though Farradyne was large enough
to take the smaller, older man's hide off if he got angry enough. "I'm
not here to argue that point," said Clevis, "and I don't intend to.
Regardless of how you feel, I'm offering you a chance to get out of
this mess. It's a space job, Farradyne."

"What makes you think I'll play stool pigeon?"

"It's no informer's job. It's space-piloting."

"I'll bet."

"You bet and I'll cover it a thousand to one."

Farradyne sat down on the dingy bed and said, "Go ahead and talk,
Clevis. I'll listen."

Clevis dug into his brief case and brought out a flower. "Do you know
what this is?" he asked, handing the blossom to Farradyne.

Farradyne looked at it briefly. "It might be a gardenia but it isn't."

"How can you tell?" asked Clevis eagerly.

"Only because you wouldn't be coming halfway across Venus to bring me a
gardenia. So that is a love lotus."

Clevis looked a bit disappointed. "I thought that maybe you might have
some way--"

"What makes you think I'd know more than a botanist?"

Clevis smiled. "Spacemen tend to come up with some oddly interesting
specks of knowledge now and then."

"So far as I know, there's only one way of telling. That's to try it
out. Thanks, I'll not have my fun that way. That's one thing you can't
pin on me."

"I wouldn't try. But listen, Farradyne. In the past twelve years we
have carefully besmirched the names and reputations of six men, hoping
that they could get on the inside. For our pains we have lost all six
of them one way or another. The enemy seems to have a good espionage
system. Our men roam up and down the solar system making like big time
operators and get nowhere. The love-lotus operators seem to be able to
tell a phony louse when they see one."

"And I'm a real louse?"

"You've a convincing record, Farradyne."

Farradyne shook his head angrily. "Not that kind," he snapped. "Your
pals sloughed off my license and tossed me out on my duff to scratch,
but no one ever pinned the crooked label on me and made it stick."

"Then why did they take away your license?"

"Because someone needed a goat."

"And you are innocent?"

Farradyne growled hopelessly. "All right," he said, returning to his
former lethargy. "So just remember that I was acquitted, remember? Lack
of evidence. But they took my license and tossed me out of space and
that's as bad as a full conviction. So where am I? I'll stop beating my
gums about it, Clevis."

       *       *       *       *       *

Clevis smiled quietly. "You were a good pilot, Farradyne. Maybe a bit
too good. You collected a few too many pink tickets for cutting didoes
and collecting women to show off in front of. They'd have marked it
off as an accident if it hadn't been Farradyne. Your record accused
you of being the hot-pants pilot, the fly-fly boy. Maybe that last job
of yours was another dido that caught you. But let's leave the ghost
alone, Farradyne. We need you, Farradyne."

Farradyne grunted and his lips twisted a bit. He got up from the unmade
bed and went to the scarred dresser to pour a stiff jolt from an
open bottle into a dirty glass. He took a sip and then walked to the
window and stood there, staring out into the dusk and talking, half to
himself. Clevis listened.

[Illustration: Charles Farradyne.]

"I've had my prayer," said Farradyne. "A prayer in a nightmare. A man
fighting against a rigged job, like the girl in the old story who
turned up in her mother's hotel room to find that every evidence of her
mother's existence had been erased. Bellhops, and cab driver, and the
steamship captain, and the hotel register all rigged. Even the police
disbelieved her, remember? Well, that's Farradyne, too, Clevis. My
first error was telling them that someone came into the control room
during landing. They said that no one would do that because everybody
knew the danger of diverting the pilot's attention during a landing. No
one, they said, would take the chance of killing himself; and the other
passengers would stop anybody who tried to go up the stairs at that
time because they knew the danger to themselves.

"They practically scoffed me into jail when I told them that there were
three people in the room. I couldn't look around, you know. A pilot
might just as well be blindfolded and manacled to his chair during
landing. So I heard three people behind me and couldn't look. All I
could do was to snarl for them to get the hell out. Then we rapped the
cliff and dumped the ship into The Bog, and I got tossed out through
the busted observation dome. They salvaged the Semiramide a few months
later and found only one skeleton in the room. That made me a liar.
Besides the skeleton was of a woman, and then they all nodded sagely
and said, 'Woman? Well, we know our Farradyne!' and I got the works.

"So," Farradyne sounded bitter once more, "they suspended me and took
away my license. They wouldn't even let me near a spacer; maybe they
thought I might steal one, forgetting that there's no place to hide.
Maybe they thought I'd steal Mars, too. So if I want a drink they ask
me if it's true that jungle juice gives a man hallucinations. If I
light a cigarette I'm asked if it is real laughing grass. If I ask for
a job they want to know how hard I'll work for my liquor. So I end up
in this God-forsaken marsh playing nursemaid to a bunch of stinking
toadstools." Farradyne's voice rose to an angry pitch. "The mold grows
on your hide and under your nails and in your hair and you forget what
it's like to be clean and you lose hope and ambition because you're
kicked off the bottom of the ladder, but you still dream of someday
being able to show the whole damned solar system that you're not the
louse they made you. Then instead of getting a chance, a man comes to
you and offers you a job because he needs a professional bastard with
a bad record--and its damned small consolation, but I'll take it just
to show you and everybody else that I'm not the hot-rock that I've been
called."

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne sniffed at the glass and then threw it into the dirty sink
with a derisive gesture. "I'll ask for a lot of things," he said,
quietly now. "The first thing is for enough money to buy White Star
Trail instead of this rotgut."

"That can be done, but can you take it?"

"It'll be hard," admitted Farradyne. "I've been on this diet of soap
and vitriol too long. But I'll do it. Give me a month."

"I can't offer you much," said Clevis. "But maybe this can be hope for
you: help us clean up the hellblossom gang and you'll do a lot towards
erasing that black mark on your record."

"Just what's the pitch?"

Clevis took a small leather folder from his briefcase and handed it
over. Farradyne recognized it as a space-pilot's license before he
opened it. He read it with a cynical smile before he asked, "Where did
you get it?"

"It's probably the only official forgery in existence. The Solar
Anti-Narcotics Department has a lot of angles to play, Farradyne.
First, that ticket is made of the right paper and printed with the
right type and the right ink because," and Clevis smiled, "it came from
the right office. The big rubber stamp 'Reinstated' is the right stamp
and the initials are put on properly, but not by the right man. The
license will get you into and out of spaceports and all the rest of the
privileges. But it has no listing on the master log at the Bureau of
Space Personnel. So long as you stay out of trouble, the only people
who will check on the validity will be the ones we hope to catch. When
they discover that your ticket is invalid, you may get an offer to join
'em."

"And in the meantime?"

"In the meantime you'll be running a spacer in the usual way. We've a
couple of subcontracts you can handle to stay in business, and you'll
pick up other business, no doubt. But there are two things to remember,
always. The first is that you've got to play it flat, Farradyne. No
nonsense. Just remember who and what you are. To make sure of it, I'll
remind you again that you are a crumb with a bad reputation. You'll be
running a spacer worth a hell of a lot of dough and there will be a
lot of people asking a lot of other people how you managed the deal.
Probably none of them will ever get around to asking you, but your
attitude is the same as the known gangster whose only visible means of
support for his million-dollar estate and his yacht and his high living
is his small string of hot-dog stands. That he owns these things is
only an indication of thrift and good management."

"I get it," grinned Farradyne.

       *       *       *       *       *

Clevis snapped, "This is no laughing matter. What goes along with this
is important. You'll play this game as we outline it to you and in no
other way. The first time we find you playing hanky-panky we'll have
you by the ears in the morning. And if you cut a dido and get pinned
for it, there you'll be with a forged license and a spacer that will
have some very odd-looking registration papers so far as the Master Log
runs. And no one is going to admit that they know you. Certainly the
SAND office won't. And furthermore if you do claim any connection at
any time for any reason whatsoever, we'll haul you in for attempting to
impersonate one of us. You're a decoy, a sitting duck with both feet in
the mud, Farradyne, and no damned good to anybody until you get mired
deeper in the same stinking mud. Now for the second item."

"Second? Weren't there ten or twelve in that last?" grunted Farradyne.

"That was only the beginning. The second is this: do not, under any
circumstances make any attempt to investigate that accident of yours.
The game you are going to play will not permit you to make any attempt
to clear up that mess. As a character of questionable background, your
attitude must be that of a man caught in a bad show and forced to
undergo visible suffering long enough for the public to forget, before
you can resume your role of professional louse. Got this straight?"

Farradyne looked at Clevis; gaunt has-been looking at success. The
window was dark now, but there were no stars visible from the surface
of Venus; only Terra and Jupiter and Sirius and Vega and a couple of
others that haloed through the haze. The call of the free blackness of
space pulled at Farradyne. He turned back from the window and looked
at the unmade bed, the insect-specked walls, the scarred dresser, the
warped floor. His nose wrinkled tentatively and he cursed inwardly
because he knew that the joint reeked of rancid sweat and mildewed
cloth and his nose was so accustomed to this stink that he could not
smell it.

Inwardly Farradyne came to understand, in those few moments while
Clevis watched him quietly, that his oft-repeated statement that there
were some things that even a bum wouldn't do was so much malarkey.
Farradyne would join the hellblossom operators if it gave him an
opportunity to get out of this Venusian mire. He turned to Clevis, not
realizing that only a few seconds had passed.

"Let's go," he said.

Clevis cast a pointed look at the dresser.

"There's nothing in the place but bad memories," said Farradyne. "I'll
leave them here. Good, bad or indifferent, Clevis, I'm your man no
matter how you want it played. For the first time in years I want a
bath and a clean shirt."




                                  II


He was rustier than he had realized. It was not only the four years
away from the levers of the control room and the split-second decision
of high speed, it was the four years of rotting in skid row. His
muscles were stringy, his skin was slaty, his eyes were slow. He was
flab and ached and off his feed. He was slow and overcompensating in
his motions. He missed his aim by yards and miscalculated his position
and his speed and his direction so badly that Donaldson, who rode in
the co-pilot's seat, sat there with his hands poised over the levers
and clutched convulsively or pressed against the floor with his feet,
chewing his lips with concern as Farradyne flopped the sky cruiser
roughly here and there like a recruit.

It took him a month of practise on Mercury to get the hang of it again.
A solid month of severe discipline, living in the ship and taking
exercise and routine practise to refine his control. He found that
making the change from the rotgut jungle juice to White Star Trail was
not too hard because his mind was busy all the time and he did not need
the high-powered stuff. White Star Trail was a godsend to the man who
liked the flavor of fine Scotch whiskey but could not afford to befog
his coordination by so much as a single ounce of the pure quill.

Eventually they 'soloed' him; Donaldson sat in the easy chair in the
salon below talking to Clevis, and he could hear them discussing
problems unrelated to him. Their voices came over the squawk-box
system clear enough to be understood. It gave Farradyne confidence. He
took the Lancaster Eighty-One into the sky, circled Mercury and began
landing procedure. For a moment, then, he relived that black day in his
past:

He had called the spaceport, "Semiramide calling North Venus Tower."

"Aye-firm, Semiramide, from North Venus Tower."

"Semiramide requesting landing instructions; give with the dope, Tower."

"Tower to Semiramide. Beacon Nine at one hundred thousand feet, Landing
Area Twelve. Traffic is one Middleton Seven-Six-Two at thirty thousand
taking off from Beacon Two and one Lincoln Four-Four landing at Beacon
Seven. Keep an eye peeled for a Burbank Eight-Experimental that's been
scooting around at seventy thousand. That's all."

"Aye-firm, Tower."

Then had come the voice of a woman behind him. Just a murmur--perhaps
a sigh of wonder from a woman who had just been shown for the first
time in her life the intricacies of rack and panel of meter and gage
and lever and shining device that surrounds the space pilot to demand
every iota of his attention during take-off or landing. In Farradyne's
recollection, there were two kinds of people: one kind stood in the
center of such an array and held their hands together for fear of
upsetting something; the other couldn't keep their damned hands off a
button or a lever even if it meant their own electrocution.

There were thirty-three people aboard, thirteen of them women, and
Farradyne wondered which of them it was. He didn't care. "Get the hell
below," he snapped over his shoulder.

A young man made some sound. Farradyne was even sharper; a woman might
wander up, interested, but a man should know that this was a deadly
curiosity. "Take her below, you imbecile," he snarled.

An older man chimed in with something that sounded like an agreement
to Farradyne's order; there was a very brief three-way argument that
lasted until one of them fell for the lure of a dark pilot-lamp and an
inviting push-button. The Semiramide bucked like a wasp-stung colt and
the silver-dull sky over North Venus Spaceport whirled--

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne was shocked out of his vivid daydream by the matter-of-fact
voice of the Mercury Port's dispatcher: "Lancaster from Tower, you are
a half degree off landing course. Correct."

Farradyne responded, "Instructions received, Tower. Will correct. Will
correlate instruments after landing."

"Aye-firm, Lancaster Eighty-One."

Farradyne's solo landing was firm and easy; almost as good as he used
to do in the days before--

He put it out of his mind and went below to Clevis and Donaldson. The
latter asked him what had been the matter with the course.

"I hit a daydream of the Semiramide," admitted Farradyne.

"Better forget it."

"I came out of it," said Farradyne shortly.

"Okay?" Clevis looked at Donaldson. The pilot nodded. "Okay, Farradyne,
you're ready. This is your ship; you're cleared to Ganymede on
speculation. You'll play it from there. There's enough money in the
strong-locker to keep you going for a long time on no pickups at all,
and you'll get regular payment for the Pluto run. Just remember, no
shenanigans."

"No games," promised Farradyne.

Clevis stood up. "I hope you mean that," he said earnestly. "If nothing
else, remember that your--er--misfortune on Venus four years ago may
have put you in a position to be a benefactor to the same mankind you
hate. I hope you'll find that they are as quick to applaud a hero as to
condemn a louse. Don't force me to admit that my hope of running down
the hellblossom outfit was based on a bum hunch. Don't let me down,
Farradyne."

Clevis left then, before Farradyne could find words. Donaldson left
with him, but stopped at the spacelock to hurl at Farradyne: "Luck,
fella."

An hour later Farradyne was a-space between Mercury and Ganymede. On
his own in space for the first time in four long aching years. Not
quite a free man, but at least no prisoner. He took a deep breath
once he was out of control-range and could put the Lancaster on the
autopilot. Gone were the smells and the rotting filth of the fungus
fields; here were the bright clear stars in the velvety sky. Here was
freedom--freedom of the body, at least. Maybe even freedom of the soul.
But not freedom of the intellect, yet. He had a tough row to hoe and
the tougher row of his innocence to turn up into the light of day.

But for the first time since he'd been thrown flat on his face,
Farradyne felt that he had a chance.




                                  III


Ganymede was in nightfall and Jupiter was a half-rim over the horizon
when he landed. He checked in at the Operations Office and listed his
Lancaster as available for a pick-up job. The clerk that took his
license to make the listing raised one mild eyebrow at the big rubber
stamp reading 'Reinstated' across the face of the card, but made no
comment. Farradyne's was not the only one so stamped. Pilots had been
suspended for making a bounce-landing with an official aboard or coming
in too slantwise instead of following a beacon down vertically.

He folded the leather case and slipped it back in his pocket. He looked
at the pick-up list, which was not too long. He had a fair chance of
picking up a job, and that would add to whatever backlog Clevis had
left him. Farradyne found himself able to figure his chances as though
he had not spent his time digging mushrooms on Venus. The pilot that
owned his ship outright was a rare one. The rest were mortgaged to the
scupper and it was a touch and clip job to make the monthly payments.
Some pilots never did get their ships paid off but managed to scratch
out a living anyway. A pilot with a clear ship could rake in the dough,
and could eventually start a string of his own. This was the ultimate
goal which so many aimed at but so few achieved. With no mortgage to
contend with, Farradyne could loaf all over space and still make out
rather well, picking up a job here and a job there.

He waved a hand at the registry clerk and went out into the dark of the
spaceport.

Rimming the edge of the field were three distant globs of neon, all
indicating bars. One was as good as the next, so Farradyne headed
towards the nearest. He entered it with the air of a man who had every
right to land his ship anywhere he pleased and then hit the nearest
bar. He waggled a finger at the barkeep, called for White Star Trail,
and dropped a ten-spot on the bar with an air that indicated that he
might be there long enough for a second.

Then he turned and hooked one heel in the brass rail, leaned back on
the mahogany with his elbows and surveyed the joint like a man with
time and money to spare, looking for what could be found. The glass in
his hand dangled a bit and his posture was relaxed.

It was called 'The Spaceman's Bar,' like sixteen hundred other
'Spaceman's Bar's rimming spaceports from Pluto to Mercury. The
customers were about the same, too. There were four spacemen playing
blackjack for dimes near the back of the room. Two women were nursing
beers, hoping for someone to come and offer them something more
substantial. Two young fellows were agreeing vigorously with one
another about the political situation which neither of them liked.
One character should have gone home eighteen drinks earlier, and was
earning a ride home on a shutter with a broken nose by needling a man
with a lot of patience, which was running out. A woman sat in a booth
along the wall, dressed in a copy of some exclusive model that had
neither the cloth nor the workmanship to stand up for more than the
initial wearing, and looked already as if she had worn it often. The
woman herself had the same tired, overworked look. She was too young to
have that look, and Farradyne looked away, disinterested; he favored
the vivacious brunette that sat gayly across the table from a young
spaceman and enticed him with her eyes. Farradyne shrugged; the girl
had eyes for no one else and she probably couldn't have been pried away
from her young spaceman by any means. It occurred to Farradyne that,
judging by the way she was acting, if some other guy slipped her a love
lotus, the girl would take a deep breath, get bedroom eyed, and then
leave the guy to go looking for her spaceman. Farradyne grinned at the
idea.

       *       *       *       *       *

As far as Farradyne could tell, there was not a love lotus in the
place, which hardly surprised him because he did not really expect
to find one in a place such as this. He turned back to the bar for a
refill. When he got it, he turned to face the room again and saw that a
man had come in and was standing just inside the door, blinking at the
lights. He was eyeing the customers with a searching look.

Eventually he addressed the entire room: "Who owns the Lancaster
Eighty-One that just came in?"

"I do," said Farradyne.

"Are you free?"

"Until the third of August."

"I'm Timothy Martin of the Martian Water Commission. I'd like to hire
you for a trip to Uranus."

"My name is Charles Farradyne, and maybe we can make a deal. What's the
job, Mr. Martin?" Farradyne eyed the room furtively, wondering if the
mention of the name would ring any cracked bells among the spacemen. It
did not seem to, and Farradyne did not know whether to be gratified at
the forgetfulness or depressed at his lack of notoriety.

"Three of us and some instruments," said Martin.

"That's hiking all the way to Uranus empty, you know."

"I know, but this is of the utmost importance. Government business."

"It's up to you; I'll haul you out there on a three-passenger charter,
since you probably haven't enough gear to make it a payload. Okay?"

"It's a bit high," Martin grunted, "but this is necessity. Can you be
ready for an early morning hop-off?"

"You be there with your gear and we'll hike it at dawn." Farradyne
turned to the barkeep and wagged for a refill, then indicated that
Martin be served. The government man took real bourbon but Farradyne
stuck to his White Star Trail. The two of them clinked glasses and
drank, and Farradyne was about to say something when he felt a touch
against his elbow. It was the girl in the over-tired cocktail dress.
Her glazed eyes were wide and glittering, her face hard and thin-lipped.

"You're Charles Farradyne?" she asked in a flat voice. Beneath a tone
of distrust and hatred the voice had what might have been a pleasant
throatiness if it had not been strained.

Farradyne nodded.

"Farradyne--of the Semiramide?"

"Yes." He felt a peculiar mixture of gratification and resentment. He
had been recognized at last, but it should have come from a better
source.

       *       *       *       *       *

She shut him out by turning to Martin. "Do you know who you've hired?"
she asked with the same flatness of tone. Profile-wise, she looked
about twenty-three at most. Farradyne wondered how a woman that young
could possibly have crammed into the brief years all of the experience
that showed in her face.

Martin was fumbling for words. "Why, er--" he said lamely.

"This rum-lushing bum is Charles Farradyne, the hot-rock that dumped
his spacer into The Bog."

"Is this true?" demanded Martin of Farradyne.

"I did have an accident there," said Farradyne. "But--"

The woman sneered. "Accident, you call it. Sorry, aren't you? Reeking
with remorse. But not so grief-stricken that you'll not take this man
out and kill him the way you killed my brother."

Farradyne grunted. "I don't know you from Mother Machree. I've had my
trouble and I don't like it any more than you do."

"You're alive, at least," she snarled at him. "Alive and ready to go
around skylarking again. But my brother is dead and you--"

"Am I supposed to blow out my brains? Would that make up for this
brother of yours?" demanded Farradyne angrily. Some of the anguish
of the affair returned. He recalled all too vividly his own mental
meanderings at the time, and the feeling that suicide would erase
that memory. But he had burned himself out with those long periods of
self-reproach.

"Blow your brains out," advised the girl sharply. "Then the rest of us
will be protected against you."

"I suppose I am responsible for you, too?" he asked bitterly.

Martin gulped down his drink. "I think I'd better find another ship,"
he said hurriedly.

Farradyne nodded curtly at Martin's back, then looked down at the girl.
He felt again the powerful impulse to plead his case, to explain, to
show his innocence. But he knew that this was the wrong thing to do.
Martin had refused the job once Farradyne had been identified. This
might be the start of what Clevis wanted. Farradyne could louse it
up for fair by saying the wrong thing here and now. So instead of
making some appeal to the woman, Farradyne eyed her coldly. There was
something incongruous about her. She looked like the standard tomato of
the spacelanes; she dressed the part and she acted it. The rough-hewn
language and the cynical bitterness were normal enough, but they should
not have been expressed in acceptable grammar and near-perfect diction.
He had catalogued her as a drunken witch, but she was neither drunk nor
a witch. Nor was she a thrill-seeking female out slumming for the fun
of it. She belonged in the "Spaceman's Bar" but not among the lushes--

       *       *       *       *       *

And then he caught it. He had been too far from it too long. The
glazed, bored eyes, the completely blase attitude were the tip-off;
then the fact that she had become animated at the chance to start a
scene of violence. Dope is dope and all of it works the same way. The
first sniff is far from dangerous, but the second must be larger and
the third larger still until the body craves a massive dose. With
some dope the effect is physical, with others it is mental. With love
lotus it was emotional. The woman had been on the emotional toboggan;
her capacity for emotion had been dulled to such an extent that only
a scene of real violence could cut through the scars to give her a
reaction. Someone had slipped the girl a really top-notch dose of
hellflower!

"Who are you?" he asked.

"Norma Hannon," she snapped. "And I don't suppose you remember Frank
Hannon at all."

"Never met him."

"You killed him."

Farradyne felt a kind of hysteria; he wanted to laugh and he knew that
once he started he could not stop easily. Then the feeling went away
and he looked around the room.

Every eye in the place was on him, but as he met their eyes they
looked down or aside or back to their own personal affairs. He knew
the breed--spacemen, a strange mixture of high intelligence and hard
roughness. Farradyne knew that to a man they understood that the most
damaging thing they could do was to deny him the physical satisfaction
of a fight. He could rant and roar and in the end he would be forced to
leave the joint. It would be a lame retreat. A defeat.

He looked back at her; she stood there in front of him with her hands
on her hips, swaying back and forth and relishing the emotional
stimulus of hatred. She wanted more, he could see. Farradyne wanted out
of here; the girl had done her part for him and could do no more. To
take her along as a possible link to the hellblossom operators was less
than a half-baked idea. She would only make trouble, because trouble
was what she relished.

"I've got it now," she blurted. Her voice rose to a fever-pitch, her
face cleared and took on the look of someone who is anticipating a
real thrill. Norma Hannon was at that stage in the addiction where
bloody murderous butchery would thrill her about to the same degree
as a normal woman being kissed good-night at her front door. "I've got
it now," she said and her voice rang out through the barroom. "The
only kind of a rascal that could dump a spacer and kill thirty-three
people and then turn up with another spacer is a big-time operator. You
louse!" she screamed at him. Then she turned to the rest of the room,
calling:

"Fellows, meet Charles Farradyne, the big-time hellflower operator!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne's nerves leaped. He knew his spacemen. A louse they could
ignore, but a dope runner--

Their faces changed from deliberate dis-recognition of him to cold and
calculated hatred, not so much of Farradyne as of what he represented
in their minds. Farradyne knew that he had better get out of here
quickly or he would leave most of his skin on the floor.

Something touched him on the shoulder, hard. He snapped his head
around. The bartender had rapped him on the shoulder with the muzzle of
a double-barrelled shotgun.

"Get the hell out of here," said the man from between narrowed lips.
"And take your rotten money with you!"

He scooped up the change he had dropped beside Farradyne's glass and
hurled the original bill at him. It went over the bar and landed in a
spittoon between the brass rail and the bar.

"Pick it up," growled the barkeep coldly. He waved the shotgun and
forced Farradyne to retrieve the soggy bill. "Now get out--quick!"
Then his voice rose above the growing murmur of angry men. "Sit down,
dammit! Every bloody one of you sit the hell down. We ain't going to
have no trouble in here!" He covered the room with the shotgun to hold
them.

Farradyne left quickly. He burned inwardly, he wanted to have it out;
but this was the game Clevis wanted him to play--it was the price of
his freedom from the fungus fields. He took it on the run to his
Lancaster, knowing that the barkeep would hold the room until escape
was made.

He took the ship up as soon as the landing ramp was retracted and only
then did his nerves calm down. He seemed to have started with a bang.
If Clevis wanted a decoy, what better decoy than to make a noise like a
small guy muscling in on a big racket?

The word would travel from bar to bar, from port to port until it
reached the necessary person. Time was unimportant now. The word
must get around. So instead of driving to some definite destination,
Farradyne set the Lancaster in a long, lazy course and let the big ship
loaf its way into space.




                                  IV


Big Jupiter and tiny Ganymede were dwindling below by the time
Farradyne was finished at the control panel. He was hungry and he was
tired and so he was going to eat and hit the sack. He turned from the
board and saw her.

Norma Hannon sat in the computer's chair behind the board. Her hands
were folded calmly and her body was listless. Farradyne grunted
uncertainly because he was absolutely ignorant of her attitude, except
perhaps the feeling that she would enjoy bloody violence.

"Well?" he said.

"I caught the landing ramp as it came running in," she said quietly.

"Why?"

"You owe me a couple," she told him. "You're a lotus runner, you can
give me one. Simple as that."

"How do you figure?"

"You killed my brother," she said. There was more vigor in her tone as
the anger flared again.

"What makes you think--"

"Another thing," she interrupted, "I wanted to come along with you."

"Now see here--"

"Don't be stupid," she said sharply. "I've no passion for you. I'm a
love-lotus addict, remember?"

"Then why--?"

"Don't you give a damn for the lives of the people you sell those
things to? Run your dope and get your dough and skip before you have
to see the ruin you bring." The flare of anger was with her and she
wriggled in her chair with an animal relish that was close to ecstasy.

"But I can't--"

"Keep it up," she said. "You'll satisfy me, one way or another." She
eyed him critically. "You can't win, Farradyne. I've had my love lotus,
and all that is left of my feelings is heavy scar-tissue. Pleasure and
surprise are too weak to cut through; only a burning anger or a deep
hatred are strong enough to make me feel the thrill of a rising pulse.
I can get a lift out of hating you, but if you kissed me it would leave
me cold." She paused speculatively, "Now, would it? Come here and kiss
me."

"Why?"

"Because I hate your guts, Farradyne. Of all the people in the solar
system, I hate you the most. I can keep telling myself that you killed
Frank, and that does it. And I add that you are a love-lotus runner and
in some way part and parcel of this addiction of mine and that builds
it up. Now if you came over and kissed me, I'd let you, and the very
thought of being kissed and fondled by such a completely rotten reptile
as Farradyne makes me seethe with pleasant anger." Farradyne recoiled.

"Afraid?" she jeered, wriggling again. "You know, as a last thrill I
might kill you. But only as a last thrill, Farradyne. Because then
the chance to hate you actively would be over and finished and there
could be no more. So between hating your guts and getting an occasional
hellflower from the man I hate, making me hate you even more, I can
feel almost alive again."

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne shook his head. This sort of talk was above and beyond him.
No matter what he said or did it was the wrong thing, which made it
right for Norma Hannon.

He did not know much about the love lotus, and that from hearsay. But
it did not include this sort of illogical talk. Seeing this end-result
actually made Farradyne feel better about the lot he had been cast
in. If Clevis was the kind of man who boiled inwardly from a sense of
outraged civic responsibility, Farradyne was beginning to feel somewhat
the same.

He looked at Norma Hannon more critically. She had been a good looking
woman not too long ago. She had probably laughed and danced and fended
off wolves and planned on marriage and a gang of happy children in a
pleasant home. Someone had cut her out of that future, and Farradyne
felt that he wanted to get the man's neck between his hands and
squeeze. He shook himself and wondered whether this addiction to hatred
and violence were catching.

He said softly, "Who did it, Norma?"

Her eyes changed. "I loved him," she breathed in a voice that was
both soft and heavy with another kind of anger than the violence she
had shown just a moment before. This was the resentment against the
past, while her previous flare of anger had been against the physical
present. "I loved him," she repeated. "I loved the flat-brained animal,
enough to lead him into the bedroom if that's what he wanted. But
no, the imbecile thought that the only way I would unfreeze was with
a hellflower. So he parted with a half-a-hundred dollars for one.
He could have rented a hotel room for a ten dollar bill," she added
sourly. "Or bought a marriage license and had me for the rest of his
life for five."

"Why didn't you refuse it?" he asked. "Or didn't you know that it
wasn't a gardenia?"

Norma looked up with eyes that started to blaze, but they died and she
was listless again. "Maybe because people like to flirt with danger,"
she said. "Maybe because men and women don't really understand each
other."

"That's the understatement of the century."

There was no flicker of amusement in her face. "Look at it this way,"
she said. "I did say I loved him. So naturally he wouldn't be the kind
of man who would bring me a lotus. Or if he did I could wear it for the
lift they bring without any danger, because any man worth loving would
not take advantage of his sweetheart while she's unable to object.
So I wore it and when I woke up after a real orgy instead of a mild
emotional binge, I was on the road toward having no feelings left. I've
been on that road ever since and I've come a long way."

She looked at him again. "So you see what you and your kind have done?"
she demanded. Farradyne knew that she was whipping herself into a fury
again. "I was a nice, healthy woman once, but now I'm a burned-out
battery--a tired engine. It takes a spot of violence to make me feel
anything. Or maybe a sniff from a lotus. Maybe by now it would take
more than one."

"But I haven't any."

She bared her teeth at him. "You can afford to part with one stinking
flower."

"I haven't--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Norma leaped out of her chair and came across the room, her face
distorted, her hands clawing at his face. Farradyne fought her away,
and saw with dismay the look of animated pleasure on her twisted face.
It was an unfair fight; Farradyne was trying to keep her from hurting
him without being forced to hurt her, while she went at him with heel
and fingernail and teeth.

He gave up. Taking a cold aim at the point of her jaw, Farradyne let
her have it.

Norma recoiled a bit and her face glowed even more. He had not struck
her hard enough because of his repugnance at hitting a woman. She came
after him again, enjoying the physical violence, looking for more of
the same. Farradyne gritted his teeth and let her have it, hard this
time.

Norma collapsed with a suddenness that scared him. He caught her
before she hit the metal floor and carried her to the salon where he
placed her on the padded bench that ran along one wall. His knowledge
of things medical was not high, but it was enough to let him know that
she did not have a broken jaw. Of one thing there was no doubt: Norma
was out colder than Farradyne had ever seen man or woman.

He carried her below, to one of the tiny staterooms.

He stood there, contemplating her and wondering what to do next. He
would have been puzzled as to the next move even if Norma had been a
completely normal person. As it was, Farradyne decided that no matter
what he did it would be wrong. The cocktail dress would not stand much
sleeping in before it came apart at the seams, but she would surely
rave if he took it off to save it for tomorrow. If he left her in it,
she would rave at him for letting her ruin the only thing she had to
wear. He shrugged and slipped the hold-down strap across her waist and
let it go at that.

Then he went to his own stateroom and locked the door against any more
of this ruckus and confusion. He slept fitfully even though the locked
door separated him from both amour and murder--either of which added up
to the same end with Norma Hannon.




                                   V


It was a sixty-hour trip from Ganymede to Mars. Each hour was a bit
more trying than the one before.

Norma bedeviled him in every way she knew. She found fault with his
cooking but refused to go near the galley herself. She objected to the
brand of cigarettes he smoked. She made scathing remarks whenever he
touched an instrument, reminding him of his presumed incompetence as a
pilot. She scorned him for refusing to open his hold and bring her the
love lotus she craved.

By the time Farradyne set the Lancaster Eighty-One down at Sun Lake
City on Mars, he had almost arrived at the point where her voice was
just so much noise.

He landed after the usual discussion of landing space and beacon route
with Sun Lake Tower, and he found time to wonder whether the word about
his affiliation had been spread yet. The Tower operator paid him no
more attention than if he had been running in and out of that spaceport
for years.

He pressed the button that opened the spacelock and ran out the landing
ramp.

"This is it," he said flatly.

"This is what?"

"The end of the line."

"I'm staying."

"No, you're not."

"I'm staying, Farradyne. I like it here. You go on about your sordid
business, and see that you get enough to spare a couple for me. For
I'll be here when you get back."

The woman's eyes glinted with hatred and determination.

Farradyne swore. She had moved in on him unwanted and had ridden with
him unwanted. If she wanted to, she could raise her voice and that
would be it. One yelp and Farradyne would spend a long time explaining
to all sorts of big brass why he was hauling a woman around the solar
system against her wishes.

So grunting helplessly, Farradyne left her in the Lancaster and went to
register at Operations. He was received blandly, just as he had been
received on Ganymede. Then he headed into Sun Lake City to stall a
bit. He went to a show, had a drink or two, prowled around a bookstore
looking for something that might inform him about the love lotus,
bought himself some clothing to augment his scant supply. He succeeded
in forgetting about Norma Hannon for a solid four hours.

Then he remembered, and with the air of a man about to visit a dentist
for a painful operation, Farradyne went reluctantly back to his ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

The silence that met him was reassuring. Even if she had been sound
asleep, the noise of his arrival would have awakened her so that
she would come out to needle him some more. He looked the ship over
carefully, satisfying himself that Norma Hannon was not present.

This was too good to miss.

He raced to the control room, punched savagely at the button that
closed the spacelock, and fired up the communications radio.

"Lancaster Eighty-One calling Tower."

"Go ahead, Lancaster."

"Request take-off instructions. Course, Terra."

"Lancaster, is your passenger aboard?"

"Passenger?"

"Check Stateroom Eight, Lancaster. Your passenger informed us that she
was going into town on an errand, that you were not to leave without
her."

"Aye-firm. I will check." Farradyne grimaced at the closed microphone.
Willfully marooning a passenger would get him into more trouble than
trying to account for the presence of his guest. Norma had done a fine
job of bolting the Lancaster to the landing block in her absence.

He waited fifty seconds. "Tower from Lancaster Eighty-One. I will wait.
My passenger is not aboard."

"Lancaster. Hold-down Switches to Safety, Warm-Up Switches to Stand-By.
Power Switches to Off. Open your port for visitor."

"Visitor, Tower?"

"Civilian requests conference about pick-up job, Lancaster. Are you
free?"

"I am free for Terra, Tower."

"Prepare to receive visitor, Lancaster. Good luck on the job."

"Aye-firm. Over and off."

Farradyne went below and rode the bottom step of the landing ramp on
its way out of the spacelock. He reached the ground with the arrival of
a port jeep, which brought his visitor to him.

"You're Charles Farradyne? I'm Carl Brenner. I'm told you are free for
Terra. Is that right?"

"That's right."

Brenner nodded. He looked around. The jeep was idling and making enough
noise so that the driver, sitting in the machine, could not possibly
hear anything that was being said. The driver was not even interested
in them; something in the distance had caught his eye and he was giving
it all his attention. Satisfied, Brenner leaned forward and in a low
voice said: "Let me see what you've got."

Farradyne shook his head. "Who, me?" he asked, as though he did not
know what Brenner was talking about.

"You. I'm in the market. If they're in good shape, we can make a deal."

Farradyne felt that this was as good a time to play cagey as any. "I
don't know what you're talking about," he said.

"No? I hardly think you're telling the truth, Farradyne."

Farradyne smiled broadly. "So I'm a liar?"

"I wouldn't say that."

"Look, Brenner, I don't know you from Adam's Off Ox. From somewhere,
you've got the idea that I am a hellblossom runner and you want to get
into the act. Well, in the first place I am not a runner, and in the
second place you have about as much chance of getting into a closed
racket with that open-faced act of yours as you have of filling a
warehouse with heroin by asking the local cops where to buy it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Brenner smiled. "I can see you're cagey," he said. "I don't blame you.
In fact, I'd not have come out here asking like an open-faced fool if I
hadn't been completely out of stock. I'm a bit desperate." He went into
an inside pocket and came out with an envelope. "This is a credential
or two," he said. "When you return this way, we can maybe do business.
The usual way, you know. No questions asked--nor answered. And no
witnesses. Okay?"

"I'll be back--maybe--mister--er, Brenner?"

"You get the idea."

"I'll--"

Farradyne's voice trailed away as he caught sight of the object that
had held the interest of the jeep driver. It was Norma Hannon, who came
around the fins of the Lancaster with the sun behind her.

Her errand had been shopping. The overworn cocktail dress was gone
and in its place was a white silky number that did a lot of fetching
things to her figure. She had also taken the complete course at some
primp-mill. She was another woman; not even Farradyne, who had seen her
in her worn clothing for days, could have been convinced that this sort
of beautiful perfection was not Norma's usual appearance.

Farradyne was silent. But as Brenner caught sight of her coming around
the sunlit tail of the Lancaster, and with enough sun shining through
her to make the pulses jump, he made a throaty discord.

"Hello," she said brightly, as though she and Farradyne were close
acquaintances, but in a tone that indicated that she was paid-passenger
and he the driver of the spacer. "I've some packages being delivered in
a bit. We'll wait, of course?"

Farradyne nodded dumbly.

Norma nodded coolly to Brenner and went up the ramp, displaying a yard
of well-filled nylon stocking at every step.

The roar of the jeep's engine snapped Farradyne's attention back to
Brenner--or where he had been standing. The jeep was taking Brenner
away in a cloud of spaceport dust.

Farradyne shook his head. That was not the man he wanted. Call it close
but no cigar. Farradyne did not want a man to buy love lotus, he wanted
a seller, a character from the upper echelon.

       *       *       *       *       *

With a sigh, Farradyne went into the Lancaster. Norma rose from the
divan along the edge of the salon and whirled like a mannequin, her
silken skirt floating. She stopped and let the silk wrap itself around
her thighs. "Like it?" she asked.

"It's very neat," he said flatly. "But where did you get the
wherewithal?"

"I figured you owed me something so I took it out of the locker in the
control room. You left the key dangling in the lock?"

"What's the grand idea?" he asked.

"You're a cold-blooded bird, Farradyne. You don't give a hoot that you
and your cowboy spacing killed my brother and that you and your kind
made it possible for some wanton to dope me. I'm told that half-decent
gangsters send flowers to a rival's funeral, but you wouldn't even part
with a love lotus. So if you won't give me one, I'm going to force it
out of you."

"But--"

"You get the idea," she said, smoothing down a non-existent wrinkle
over one round hip. "But I'm honest. You've some change coming." She
put her hand down in the space between her breasts and brought forth a
small roll of bills which she handed to Farradyne. Dumbly, he took them.

They were warm and scented with woman and cologne, and would have
been hard on Farradyne's blood-pressure if it had not been for the
anticipatory glitter in Norma Hannon's eyes.

There was a small commotion at the spacelock. Farradyne looked to see
three men coming in with fancy-wrapped boxes.

He groaned, and went aloft to the control room. Norma had run the gamut.




                                  VI


Farradyne sat before his control panel with his head in his hands.
There had to be some way out of this. The alternative was to go on
hauling Norma back and forth, being the target of her needling and her
vicious desire and getting nothing done because of it. The mess had
started off badly enough, but now it had deteriorated.

Norma's needling and goading had been hard enough to bear. He was
willing to bet his spare money that the boxes she was now receiving
contained whatever could be purchased of the most seductive clothing
she could find. And included in her basic idea was, most likely, a
sharp appreciation of what Farradyne would consider exciting. Acres
of exposed skin or rank nudity would pall on him. So she would come
out with little items that might cover her from toe to chin in such a
way as to make him wonder about what was underneath; probably simple
stuff with a lot of fine fit and a lot of semi-transparent quality that
compelled the eye. If she coupled this program with a soft voice, as
she was most likely to do now that she had shucked the sleazy costume,
Norma Hannon would be almost irresistible. Before this happened,
Farradyne had to park her somewhere that would be binding.

Had she parents? Friends?

He hit the control panel with his fist. He hated to think of it, but
if push came to shove he might be able to drop her in one of the
sanatoriums that had been set up for love-lotus addicts. They did
little good for the victims but did keep the addicts out of other
people's hair.

It seemed that it should be parents, first.

Farradyne's forefinger hit the radio button viciously.

"Tower? Connect me to the city telephone."

"Aye-firm, Lancaster. Wait five."

A few seconds later Farradyne was asking for the Bennington Detective
Agency, an outfit that was system wide. He got a receptionist first and
then a quiet-voiced man named Lawson.

Farradyne came to the point. "I want any information you can collect
about the family of a man named Frank Hannon who was killed in the
wreck of the Semiramide in The Bog, on Venus four years ago."

"You're same Charles Farradyne?"

"Maybe--but is it important?"

"It might be, but it will be held confidential. I'm asking because I
prefer to know the motives of clients. I'd like reassurance that our
investigation will be made for a legal reason."

"I'll put it this way: I know Frank Hannon was killed in the wreck. I
have reason to believe that he had a sister that disappeared shortly
afterwards. If this is true, I want to know it--but I haven't time to
find out through the usual channels. Fact of the matter is that I want
no more information than I could get myself if I had time to go pawing
through issues of newspapers of four years ago. No more."

"I will look through our list of missing persons and see if such is the
case, Mr. Farradyne. I suggest that you either call back in a couple of
hours, or better, that you call in person here at my office. There will
be no charge for the initial search, but if this evolves into something
concrete--well, we can discuss the matter when you call. Is that all
right?"

"It's okay and I'll be in your office at four o'clock."

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne hung up and considered. If Norma Hannon had a couple of
grieving parents, he could hand her over to them and that would be the
end of that. He lit a cigarette and smoked for a moment, then got up
from the control console and started for the spacelock.

He met Norma in the salon. She had changed into a heavy satin housecoat
that molded her arms to the wrists, clung to her waist and breasts
and throat, and outlined her hips and thighs. Painted toenails were
provocatively visible below the hem as she sat there with her legs
crossed, tossing her foot up and down.

"Thought we were about to take off again," she asked. Her voice was
soft and personal and friendly. She was plying the affectionate line as
smoothly as an experienced woman could.

Farradyne shook his head. Having a plan of action made him feel better.
"Got a call from the tower," he said. "More business. I'll be back in a
couple of hours."

Norma held up her hand for his cigarette and he gave it to her. She
puffed deeply and offered it back. Farradyne refused it. The memory
of her needling and her desire for violence had not had time to fade.
Another twenty hours of this calmness and he would begin to look upon
the sharing of a cigarette as a pleasant gesture of companionship.

Norma shrugged at his wave of the hand in refusal. "I'll be here
when you get back," she said comfortably, wriggling down against the
cushions and giving him the benefit of an inviting smile.

Farradyne left the salon swearing under his breath. If this parking of
her did not work, Farradyne was licked.

       *       *       *       *       *

He walked. He did not like walking, but he preferred walking to
remaining in the Lancaster with Norma for the next couple of hours. He
tried to think, but he could not come to any conclusion because he had
all his hope tied on the Bennington outfit and what they might turn up.

He was shown into the office of Peter Lawson, who was a bright-eyed
elderly man with a body surprisingly lithe for his years.

"Now, before we go any further," said Lawson pleasantly, "I'd like to
hear your reasons for becoming interested in this case."

Farradyne nodded. "As I told you, Frank Hannon was killed in an
accident on a spacecraft I owned. That was four years ago. Recently I
met Norma Hannon in a gin-mill on Ganymede and she fastened onto me
like a leech as a person to hate. You know the results of love-lotus
addiction?"

"Yes, I do."

"Well, it occurred to me that one way of getting rid of Miss Hannon
would be to turn her over to some relative or friend who would be
deeply interested in her welfare. Does this add up?"

"Quite logical. Miss Hannon is where you can find her?"

Farradyne nodded with a sour look on his face. "She's sitting in my
salon waiting for me to come back."

"Why not just turn her over to the police?" asked Lawson with a careful
look at Farradyne.

"Look," said Farradyne testily, "I don't enjoy Miss Hannon's company,
but I can't see jailing her. She isn't truly vicious, she's just
another unfortunate victim of the love-lotus trap. Maybe I feel a bit
concerned over her brother. Anyway, take it from here."

"Very well. I shall. The facts are these:

"Frank Hannon was a lawyer with a limited but apparently lucrative
practise. Norma acted as a sort of junior partner. The case-history
says that Frank Hannon had been on his way to Venus to place some case
before one of the higher courts, the nature of which was not a matter
for public discussion. I don't know what it was myself.

"Then Frank was killed, and Norma dropped her study of law. Her
brother's death seemed to be quite a blow to her. Before, she had dated
at random, with nothing serious in mind. But afterwards she seemed to
develop a strong determination to marry, perhaps as a substitute for
the gap left by the death of her brother. A man named Antony Walton
became Number One boy friend after a few months and they were together
constantly and seemed devoted. She disappeared after a dinner-date with
Walton, and Walton is now serving a term on Titan Colony for possession
of love-lotus blossoms."

Farradyne shook his head. "The louse," he said feelingly.

"Everybody agrees."

"I don't know as much as I might about lotus addiction," said
Farradyne. "It all seems so sudden to me. One moment we have a
well-bred young woman with ideals and ambition and feelings and the
next moment--"

"It is a rather quick thing," said Lawson. "The love lotus is vicious
and swift. I've studied early cases. They all seem to have the same
pattern. And oddly enough, love lotus is not an addictive drug in every
case. It is not only an aphrodisiac; it also heightens the physical
senses so that a good drink tastes better and a good play becomes
superb. The touch of a man's hand becomes a magnificent thrill. And
here is the point where addiction begins, Mr. Farradyne. If the woman's
senses and emotions are treated only to the mild appreciations of food
and drink and music and a gentle caress, her addiction may take years
and years to arrive at the point where she cannot feel these stimuli
without a sniff of hellflower. But if she should be so unlucky as to
have her emotions raised to a real passion during the period of dosage,
it is like overloading the engine. You burn her out."

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne nodded. "I see. And there is no cure?"

"Some doctors believe that a long period of peace and quiet under
conditions where only the mildest of stimuli are available may bring
the addict back. I am of the opinion that such a place does not
exist. They fasten onto hate as an emotion that cuts through their
burned-out emotions and if you should place them among completely
bland surroundings they would find it possible to hate those that
incarcerated them. It becomes almost paranoiac; anything you do is
wrong."

"So I've discovered. But what do I do with Miss Hannon?"

"At the time of Miss Hannon's disappearance, her family offered a
reward of five thousand dollars for her return."

"I'd be happy to deliver her FOB her own front porch," said Farradyne.
"Can I hand her over to you and let you take it from there?"

"She would put up quite a ruckus," said Lawson. "I doubt that she will
go home willingly. It is my opinion that Miss Hannon's response to
Walton's lovemaking was extremely high, so that the result was a quick
blunting of her normal capability for feelings. After this, anger and
shame would cause her--a proud woman of education and breeding--to
hide where she could not be known, where she could possibly get
the hellflower she needed for her next desire to enjoy the lift
of emotions. This would not be in the home of her parents. So she
would not go home willingly--and the alternative is an appeal to the
authorities." Lawson smiled. "I heard your offer to deliver her free to
her home."

"But--"

"You've depended upon us and you will be helped. We will have an
operative collect Miss Hannon at the Denver Spaceport. All you have
to do is live with this trouble for about fifty hours more. We have
done quite a bit of work on this case already, and we are willing to
do more. For delivering your information and for taking Miss Hannon to
Denver, we will be happy to divide the reward."

"I'll deliver Miss Hannon to Denver," said Farradyne, thinking that for
twenty-five hundred he could stick cotton in his ears and sweat it out
at about fifty dollars an hour.

"Good, Mr. Farradyne. I'll make arrangements to have our Mr. Kingman
meet you at Denver."

Lawson handed Farradyne a few pages of dossier on the case and then
showed him out of the office. Farradyne took a deep breath and decided
that what he wanted was a drink to his good fortune. He could look
forward to getting rid of Norma Hannon. He made the street, glanced
around, and headed for a small bar, to relax and think.




                                  VII


At a small table with a tiny lamp he opened the papers that Lawson
had given him, to read them more thoroughly. The waitress was high
breasted in a manner that invited him to look, but he merely barked,
"White Star Trail" and went back to his reading.

"Spaceman?" she asked.

Farradyne nodded in an irritated manner. She flounced off after a
moment of futile effort to beguile the spaceman.

So when, a moment later, someone slid into the bench beside him,
Farradyne turned to tell her to please vacate the premises because he
wasn't having any, thanks. Instead of looking into a vapidly willing
face, Farradyne's eyes were met with an equally cold blue stare
from the face of a hard-jawed man dressed in a jacket tailored to
half-conceal the shoulder holster he wore. Farradyne blinked.

"Farradyne?"

"So?" said Farradyne. He tried to think, but all he could cover was the
idea that someone was now playing games with guns.

"Hear tell you're running blossoms, Farradyne."

"Who says?"

"People."

"People say a lot of things. Which people?"

"Well, are you?"

"Who, me?"

"Can it and label it," snapped the newcomer.

Farradyne shrugged angrily. "What do you want me to do?" he asked in a
mild tone. "You've got the jump on me. You slide into my seat and bar
my exit and without introducing yourself you start asking questions
that could get me twenty years in bad company, poor surroundings, and
no pay."

"Pardon me. You may call me Mike. Michael Cahill is the name."

"Maybe I'm glad to meet you, Mike. Have you any identification that
doesn't bark for itself?"

"It's usually good enough."

"Probably. But the numbers on its calling cards are someone else's."

Mike laughed. "That's not bad, Farradyne. But so far as I know, your
number isn't among those present."

"I'll bet you could change a number fast enough."

"Could be," nodded Cahill. He turned around over his shoulder and
called at the waitress: "Hey, Snooky. Make it two instead of one."

"Mine's White Star."

"That's all right with me. It's easier to drive this rod with a clear
head."

"No doubt," said Farradyne. "So now that we are about to drink
together, let's face it. You had more in mind than to pass the time of
day with a nervous spaceman who wanted to be alone."

"Correct. Or as you birds say, Aye-firm. How's the hellblossom
business?"

"That's easy to answer. The answer is that I haven't any, and I'm not
in the business."

"People say you are."

"People are wrong."

"Sometimes, but not always."

Farradyne grunted. "Not too long ago, someone accused me openly. The
story started when someone suggested that the only way a guy could come
from down on his bottom to the top of the heap in one large step was
to be among the big-time operators. The heavy-sugar know-how. To the
limited imagination, this meant running love lotus."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike Cahill was silent while the high-breasted waitress brought their
drinks. After she left, Cahill lifted his glass to Farradyne. "Is you
is or is you ain't?" he chuckled.

"I ain't," said Farradyne, drinking with Cahill.

"Stop sounding like a parrot. The tomato in the bar on Ganymede must
have known something. You spent four years as flat on your duff
as a musclebound wrestler and then you come bouncing along in a
last-year model Lancaster. So since we know damned well that you're no
hellblossom runner, where did you get the stack?"

"Thrift and good management."

"Maybe it's a rich uncle?"

"I'm just a capable operator."

"The label is sour, Farradyne."

"Then what do you make of this?" asked Farradyne, handing Cahill his
license folder.

"It looks nice and legal, but it's as phony as a ten-cent diamond and
both of us know it. So how did you get it--and the Lancaster to go
along with it?"

Farradyne sipped his drink. "Look, Cahill, it just happens that I don't
care to tell. This is a gentler version of the old bark, 'None of
your blank business!' which I've always considered rude and which has
started a lot of fights. But the fact remains that I am not telling."

"It might make a difference if you did."

"Let's stop fencing. I may be of use to you. It might be that you are a
SAND agent and it might be otherwise, but I still may be of use to you
either way. But the first time I start shooting off my trap, you'll get
the idea that I'm not close-mouthed enough for whatever job you have in
mind for me. So let's leave it this way, huh? I got a ticket that gets
me in and out and a spacer that takes me there and back."

"And that's your story?"

Farradyne nodded, sipped his drink, and offered Cahill a smoke which
Cahill took.

"We've had a rather moist spring," observed Cahill.

"It was moister on Venus," commented Farradyne.

"It's on Terra that the weather is fine," said Cahill. "The crops are
coming up, I'm told, excellently. Nothing like fresh vegetables."

Farradyne nodded. "No matter how well we convert the planets to
Terra-condition, nothing grows like on earth."

"Ever enjoy lying on your back in the sun in a field of flowers with
nothing to do but get sunburned?"

"Not for a long time."

"Funny how a guy gets out of his kid-habits," mused Cahill. "And even
funnier how he wants to go and do it all over again, but it's never
quite the same."

"Yeah."

"Farradyne, you're not sold-up on this next jaunt to Terra, are you?"

"Just one passenger going to Denver."

"Mind if I buy a stateroom?"

"Not at all."

"I want to go pick flowers on Terra," yawned Cahill. "If you like,
maybe we can pick some together."

"Maybe we can," said Farradyne, draining his glass and starting to get
up. Cahill got up too and led the way out. Farradyne flagged down a
taxicab. "Spaceport," he told the driver. "Coming?" he asked Cahill.

"Yeah."




                                 VIII


Farradyne took the Lancaster up and set the course to Terra. As soon
as he could spare time to think of anything but handling the ship, he
began to wonder about Norma and Mike Cahill. She had not been visible
when they arrived, but no doubt by now she had made her presence known.
It bothered him a bit because he was as certain as a man can be that
Cahill was a hellflower operator, and he did not want the man to get
cold feet because Farradyne was connected with an addict, if even for a
short hop.

So as soon as he could leave the board, Farradyne went down into the
salon.

They had met. Norma, for the first time in her trip with Farradyne, was
presiding over the dining table. She was wearing a slinky, sea-green
hostess gown that scarcely existed above the waist and was slit on both
sides to just below the knees. Her white, bare legs twinkled as she
walked and almost forced the eye to follow them. She was giving Cahill
all the benefit of her physical beauty, and Cahill was enjoying it.
Farradyne had a hunch that Norma was about to start slipping him the
old jealousy-routine. He wondered about his reaction. He was extremely
wary of Norma, but he did feel a sort of responsibility for her. She
might make him jealous, but it would not be the jealousy of passion or
desire, but the jealous concern that stems from a desire to protect.

Norma's lissome figure vanished toward the galley, and Cahill wagged a
forefinger at Farradyne.

"That dame's a blank," he said in a low voice.

"I know. She's not my woman, Cahill."

"Maybe not, but it sure looks like it from a distance. What are you
doing with her?"

"Delivering her to her parents in Denver."

"That all?"

Farradyne nodded. "She latched onto me on Ganymede; she's the dame that
made the loud announcement of my being a hellflower runner."

"Maybe she'll be right sooner or later. But you get rid of her, see?"

Farradyne nodded vigorously. "That I'll do. She's been hell on high
heels to have around the joint."

"Looks like she might be fun."

"She hates my guts."

Cahill nodded. "Probably. They usually end up in a case of anger and
violence. Tough."

Norma came back with a tray and set food on the table. They ate in
silence, with Norma still giving Cahill the full power of her charm.
Cahill seemed to enjoy her advances, although he accepted them with a
calloused, self-assured smile. Once dinner was finished, Norma jumped
up and began to clear the table. This act annoyed Farradyne because he
could not account for it, and the only thing that seemed to fit the
case was the possibility that Norma was acting as she did to soften his
wariness of her; but she was carrying the thing too far.

       *       *       *       *       *

As she left again, Farradyne turned to Cahill and asked, "How can a man
tell a love lotus from a gardenia?"

"That takes experience. You'll learn."

"The thing that stops me," said Farradyne, "is that the Sandmen have
been trying to stamp out the things for about forty years and they
can't even tell where they come from."

"They'll never find out," said Cahill. "Maybe you won't either."

"But I--"

"Better you shouldn't. Just enjoy living off the edges. It's safer that
way."

"Where are we going after we leave Denver?"

"I'm not too sure we're going anywhere."

"But--"

"I'm none too sure of you, Farradyne. You've some holes to fill in."
Cahill lit a cigarette and leaned back, letting the smoke trickle
through his nostrils. "I don't mind talking to you this way because it
would be your word against mine if you happen to be a Sandman. Some of
your tale rings true. The rest sticks, hard."

"For instance?"

"Well, let's suppose you are a Sandman. Humans are a hard-boiled lot,
but somehow I can't see killing thirty-three people just to establish
a bad reputation. So that tends to clear your book. As to the chance
of your laying low for four years until the mess blew over, I might
buy that except for the place. A guy who can ultimately turn up with
enough oil to grease his way into a reinstated license and a Lancaster
Eighty-One isn't likely to spend four interim years living in a
fungus-field."

"Maybe I hit it rich?"

Cahill laughed roughly. "Dug up a platinum-plated toadstool?"

"Maybe I just met up with the right guy."

"Blackmail?"

"That's a nasty word, Cahill."

"Sure is. What did he do?"

"Let's call it malingering. Let's say he played rough at the wrong time
and might have to pay for it high at the present." Farradyne looked at
the ceiling. "And maybe that isn't it."

Cahill laughed. "Have it your way, Farradyne. Tell me, do we have
a lay-over at Denver or is it better if we take off immediately for
Mercury?"

"Cinnabar or Hell City?"

"Cinnabar, if it makes any difference."

"Mercury, Schmercury, I didn't know there was anything there but the
central heating plant for the solar system."

"Isn't much," admitted Cahill. "But enough. The--"

       *       *       *       *       *

His voice trailed away as Norma's high heels came clicking up the
circular stairway back toward the salon. "I thought I'd have a
cigarette and a drink with company before I go to bed," she announced
in a tone of voice that Farradyne had not heard her use before. With
gracious deftness, she made three highballs of White Star Trail and
water and handed two of them to the men. She let her fingers linger
over Farradyne's very briefly, and over Cahill's longer. She lounged in
a chair across the room from them, all curves and softness, with only
that strange disinterested look in her eyes to give her away.

The evening had been a series of paradoxes; Norma's change from the
vixen to the lady of languid grace did not ring true. He had been
aware of her ability to reason coldly, brought about by her burned-out
emotional balance which was so dulled that her thinking was mechanical
and therefore inclined to be frightfully chilled logic. Norma had
claimed that she knew the emotions by name and definition; that once
she had felt them but now she only knew how they worked. Farradyne
found it hard to believe that she was so well schooled in her knowledge
that she could put on the act of having them when she obviously did not.

Yet it was only the blankness in her eyes that gave her away this
evening. Otherwise she might have been a very charming companion.

She did not even force herself upon them; when her cigarette and her
drink were gone, Norma excused herself quietly and went below.

"Me, too," said Cahill.

Farradyne led him down to a stateroom and waved him in. "See you in the
morning," he said. Cahill nodded his good-night and Farradyne went to
his own stateroom to think.

He hadn't done bad, he thought; he had been on the trail for less
than a hundred hours and already had a lead. Obviously the Semiramide
disaster was the tip-off; no Sandman would go that far to establish a
shady reputation.

Farradyne was prepared to go on as far as he had to. The idea of
actually running love lotus was not appealing, but the SAND office
had been fighting the things for a half century, watching helplessly
while the moral fibre of the race was being undermined, and somehow
it was far better to let a few more lives be wrecked by hellflowers
than to save a few and let the whole thing steamroller into monumental
destruction. Farradyne still had to duck a few people who might like
to nail his hide to a barn door, but sooner or later he would come out
on top and then he could look his fellow man in the eye and ask him to
forget one bad mistake.

Being on this first step eased his mind somewhat. He would be rid of
Norma tomorrow morning and on his way with Cahill. He went to sleep
easily for the first time since that meeting with Norma at Ganymede.

He dreamed a pleasant dream of freedom and success that ended with the
bark of a pistol.




                                  IX


Shocked out of his sleep, he lay stunned and blinking for a moment,
then leaped out of bed and raced to the corridor. The light blinded him
at first, but not enough to stop him from seeing Cahill.

Cahill came along the tiny corridor listlessly, blood dribbling
from under his left arm, running down his fingers and splashing
to the floor. On Cahill's face was a stunned expression, full of
incomprehension, semi-blank. Blood ran down his leg, across his ankle,
and left red footprints on the floor.

Through whatever haze clouded Cahill's eyes, he saw Farradyne. He
stumbled forward and reached for Farradyne, but collapsed in midstep
like a limp towel, to stretch out at Farradyne's feet like a tired
baby. His voice sighed out in a dying croon that sounded like a rundown
phonograph.

Behind him came Norma Hannon. Her eyes were blazing with an unholy
satisfied light and her body was alive and sinuous. A tiny automatic
dangled from her right hand. Her lips curled as she came up to Cahill
and poked at the man's hand with her bare foot.

"He--" she started to cry in a strident tone. Then the semi-hysteria
faded and she looked down at Cahill again, relishing the situation.

Farradyne shuddered. What had happened was obvious. Cahill had tried
to force himself upon Norma; she had killed him. Apparently Cahill had
not been able to do more than clutch at the deep neckline of Norma's
nightgown, which was slightly torn.

He leaned back against the wall and saw things in a sort of horrid slow
motion. Under any normal circumstance, no jury in the solar system
would have listened to an attempt to prosecute her. Under any normal
circumstance, Farradyne could bury Cahill at space and report the
incident at the first landing. But Farradyne couldn't stand too much
investigation. And Norma Hannon was a love-lotus addict--a 'blank,' in
Cahill's words.

"Now what?" asked Farradyne bitterly.

"He--" Her eyes opened wide again as she relived the scene and relished
the violence.

"Have your fun," Farradyne growled. "What did you do? Let him get all
the way in before you plugged him? No warning at all?"

"I hoped it was you," she said. "I wouldn't have killed you." Her
voice was calm; she might have been saying 'kiss' instead of 'kill'.
"Him I did not like."

"And you like me?"

"You I save to hate tomorrow," she said matter-of-factly.

"Why didn't you save him?"

"What was he to you?"

"He was my source."

"Source?" Norma looked blank. Then understanding crossed her face.
"Hellblossoms," she said with a sneer that twisted her face. She
stepped past Cahill's body and handed the tiny automatic to Farradyne,
who took it dumbly just because it was proffered. She went on into the
salon and sat down.

Farradyne wanted to hurt her, to reach through that wall of emotional
scar and make her feel something besides anger. Remorse, perhaps.

"Source," he nodded, following her. "Love lotus. I'd have given you
one, Norma."

She made a sound like a bitter laugh. "No good, Farradyne. What good is
one love lotus?"

"I don't know," he said simply. "I've never had one."

Her laugh was shrill. Then she bawled at him like a fishwife, "What an
operator you are, Farradyne! You big fumbling boob with your stolen
spacer and your forged license, making like a big wind and blowing like
a breeze! Fah!"

She got up as suddenly as she had sat down. She paused on her way down
the corridor to kick Cahill's head with her bare foot. The man's head
moved aside limply.

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne stayed where he was until he heard her door slam shut. Then
he got up and went toward his own room, pausing at the door to look at
Cahill. He should be moved, thought Farradyne.

He found himself looking down on the dead man with a strangely detached
feeling, as if he were watching a rather poorly plotted play. He
relived the scene although he tried to shut it out of his mind.
Shutting out would not work, and so he went through it detail by
detail, minutely, from the sound of the pistol shot to the last dying
groan from Cahill's tortured throat. The memory of that dying sound
jarred on Farradyne's nerves. There had been something strange about
it--

It had been a discordant cry.

Farradyne found himself making a completely useless analysis, itemizing
things that surely could not matter. The cry had been a discord.

His mind wandered a bit as he considered the word. A series of atonal
notes do not make a discord. A discord comes when atonal notes are
sounded at the same time. The former can be pleasant to the ear, the
latter not.

And then a chill hit him. He felt like a man who has just been told
that he had one more question to answer before winning the prize on a
quiz show.

Cahill's moan had been a full discord.

With a sudden leap of the mind, Farradyne was back in the Semiramide,
hearing three voices behind him. They had found one skeleton
afterwards. Then his mind leaped to Brenner, who had emitted an
approving grunt when he saw Norma come around the tail structure of the
Lancaster with the sun shining through her skirt. He had no proof, no
proof. Brenner's grunt had no discord but none the less a mingling of
tones. Three voices? Maybe more?

Maybe he was not sure of the first. Brenner's sound had been very
brief--maybe he was convincing himself. But Cahill's death-cry had been
most certainly polytonal. And they both were love-lotus operators.

It might mean something or it might not. Farradyne put his head back
and tried to make a series of sounds. He moaned. He gargled, and he
tried to hum and say something at the same time. Maybe the stunt could
be cultivated after much practise, and maybe it was used as a password.

More than anything Farradyne needed corroboration.

It was a weak hope, but he stepped over Cahill's body and rapped on
Norma's door.

She opened the door after a moment and said, "Now what?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He looked down into her glazed eyes, hoping to see some flicker of
expression that showed some interest in anything. "Norma, you've a good
logical mind--tell me, did you notice anything about Cahill's last cry?"

"No."

"Nothing odd?"

"I've not seen men die very often. What was strange about it?" The eyes
unglazed a bit, but Farradyne could not tell whether this was awakened
interest or merely the recapture of the feeling she had enjoyed before.

"It sounded to me like a discordant moan."

"It was discordant."

"Not the way you mean. It sounded to me like there were three or four
distinct tones all going at once."

"Stop beating that dead horse," she told him flatly. "It's the same
chorus you used to sing about the three people in your control room,
remember?"

"Brenner made a sound like that, too," he said.

"A piglike sound," she said scornfully. "Forget it, Farradyne. Your
evidence consists of one man surprised at the sight of a good-looking
woman and one man whose throat was coming apart in death. Forget it."
She shut the door to her room in his face abruptly.

Farradyne looked down at Cahill's body with regret. A gunman and a
love-lotus operator was not likely to have his absence noticed among
the kind of people who could afford to start asking questions of the
officials, and there might be a chance that Cahill's absence would
cause the same people to ask a question or two of Farradyne.

Farradyne would have liked to keep the body. But hauling a slain
corpse--he did not consider it murder--into a doctor's office and
asking for an autopsy on the throat could not be done. Nor could
Farradyne do it himself. He could perform a fair job of setting a
broken bone and he could treat a burn or a cut, but he would not
recognize a larynx if he saw it.

Grunting distastefully, Farradyne hauled the body to the scuttle port
and consigned it to space with a terse, "See you in Hell, Cahill!"

Sleep did not come to Farradyne for a long time.




                                   X


The Lancaster came down at Denver; before Farradyne had the landing
ramp out, a spaceport buggy came careening across the field to stop
almost at the base of the ship.

"Farradyne?" said the man.

"You're the Bennington man?"

"Sidney Kingman," said the other, showing Farradyne a small case with
an identification card and license. "Where is she?"

"Inside."

Kingman handed Farradyne an envelope. He pocketed it and led Kingman
into the salon. Norma was there, sitting on the divan, smoking.

"Miss Hannon, Mr. Kingman."

"Another one of your friends?" she sneered.

"No. He's one of yours."

"I have no friends."

"Yes, you have, Miss Hannon. And you have parents--"

Norma leaped to her feet angrily. "You good-for-nothing bum!" she
screeched at Farradyne.

"You wouldn't leave me alone, Norma," said Farradyne tiredly. "So I've
brought you home."

"I'll come after you," she snarled.

"Not if I see you first," he told her. "This is it."

"I won't go!"

"You'll go," said Farradyne harshly, "if I have to clip you on the chin
and help Kingman carry you out on a shutter."

For the first time, Farradyne saw tears of genuine sorrow. There was
anger at him, too; but remorse was there a-plenty. "Why hurt them?" she
asked. "Why can't they just call me dead and let it go at that? I'm
worse than dead."

Then her face froze again and she looked at Kingman. "All right,"
she said in a hard voice, "let's go and hurt my folks to death. You
money-grubbing ghouls."

She started towards the spacelock. Kingman followed. Her face wore a
coldly distant expression as she left the Lancaster. Kingman's driver
took them off. She did not turn back to look at Farradyne.

And that was that. Farradyne retracted the landing ramp, closed the
spacelock, and not long afterwards hiked the Lancaster into the sky and
headed for Mercury.




                                  XI


Cinnabar was inside of the sunlight zone by a thousand miles and its
sun was always in the same spot of the sky. It was a well-contrived
city, built so that the streets were lighted either directly or from
reflections. Cinnabar was also one of the show-cities of the solar
system; but Farradyne found that it did not show him the right things.
He could have learned more about hellflowers on Terra because New York
had a larger Public Library than Cinnabar.

Farradyne tried everything he could think of but made no progress. His
trail had turned to ice after Cahill's death. He loafed and he poked
his nose in here and there and drank a bit and varied his routine from
man-about-town to the spaceman concerned about his future. There was
only one bright spot: his listing had been tentatively taken up by a
group of schoolteachers on a sabbatical, who had seen Mercury and now
wanted a cheap trip to Pluto. Farradyne accepted this job for about
three weeks later. It gave him a payload to Pluto, and when he got
there it would be time to do the subcontracting job Clevis had set up
as a combined source of revenue and a means of contact. Once each month
Farradyne was to haul a shipment of refined thorium ore from Pluto to
Terra, a private job that paid well. In the meantime, Farradyne could
nose around Mercury to see what he could see. Then he could haul his
schoolteachers to Pluto and pick up his thorium, which definitely made
his actions look reasonably normal to the official eye.

On the end of the drums of refined thorium there would be a spot of
fluorescent paint, normally invisible. He was to wash this spot off so
long as he had nothing to report; if it remained then something was
wrong with Farradyne, or he had something to report. Clevis would know
what to do next.

And so Farradyne watched the date grow closer and closer and his hopes
of having something to report dimmed.

He cursed under his breath at the futility of it, and realized that his
curse must have been audible when he felt a touch on his elbow and a
voice asking, "Is it that bad?"

He turned slowly, his mind working fast to think of something to say
that would not be leading in the wrong direction. "I was--" he started,
and then saw that the voice, which had been low-pitched enough to have
been the voice of a rather small, thin man, had come from the throat
of a tall dark-haired woman who sat beside him at the bar. "--just
wondering what strangers did for excitement on Mercury," he finished
lamely.

"Spaceman?"

"Yes."

She laughed in her low contralto. "I guessed it. Is Cinnabar so
inhospitable?"

"To strangers it seems so."

"To me it seems quite normal. It makes the rest of the solar system
sound like a very exciting place."

"Born on Mercury?"

"No," she said, shaking her head. "I was born on Venus. I spent four
years on Terra before my folks brought me to Mercury. But my last
space trip took place when I was nine. Tell me, what is New York like?"

"Buildings and people and mad rushing around. Any change in the last
hundred years has been for taller buildings, more people, and a higher
general velocity of humanity."

"But--"

"I know, the way I put it sounds a bit harsh. But anybody can find
anything they want somewhere in New York if he has the money to buy it."

       *       *       *       *       *

She smiled calmly. "I'll show you that Cinnabar is not an inhospitable
place," she said. "You may take me to dinner if you wish."

"I wish," he chuckled. "And since we haven't a mutual friend to
introduce us, I'm Charles Farradyne."

"How do you do?" she said solemnly, putting a lithe hand in his. "I'm
Carolyn Niles." She took a little step out from the bar and made him
a slight curtsy. He saw that she was almost as tall as he was, and he
grinned as he thought that her figure was far better than his.

"How shall we meet?" he asked.

"We shall not meet," said Carolyn. "You shall drive me home where
we will have cocktails with my folks. You will be an old friend
of Michael's, who is a sort of school-chum of my brother. After
cocktails I will change and you will make polite conversation with my
family--none of which eat personable young men, though they may scare
them to death by having father show them the fine collection of Terran
shotguns he owns. Then we will go out to your spacecraft, and you will
change while I roam around and investigate the insides."

"Done," agreed Farradyne.

Something rapped him on the elbow and he had to look down before he saw
a boy of ten or so with a green-paper lined box containing flowers. The
young merchant had an eye for business; he eyed Farradyne knowingly and
smiled at Carolyn fetchingly. "Corsage? One dollar."

Farradyne grinned--and then almost recoiled before he realized that
nowhere in the solar system could a love lotus be purchased for a
dollar. These were definitely gardenias. He bought one to cover up his
confusion, and as he handed it to Carolyn he wondered whether having
a good-looking woman in a car outside a florist shop might not be the
password to the purchase of the hellflower. Carolyn pinned the gardenia
in her dark hair as she smiled her thanks, then led him from the bar
to an open roadster almost as low and long as the curb it was parked
against. Carolyn handed him her keys and Farradyne drove according to
her directions until they came to a rather large rambling home just
outside of the city limits.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was received graciously. Her father was a tall, distinguished man
with a dab of gray at the temples and a rather stern face that became
completely friendly whenever he smiled, which was very frequently.
Carolyn's mother was tall and dark with only a sprinkle of gray;
Carolyn's stature seemed natural in that tall family. The brother was
not present, which made it completely easy for Farradyne who could not
have given any account of his friendship for the unknown Michael.

Mr. Niles mixed a pitcher of martinis and inquired about the spaceman
business. Farradyne explained how it was. Mrs. Niles laughed at his
story about fish one day and fins the next and said that she thought
it couldn't be that bad, really. Farradyne grinned. Mr. Niles observed
that a man who can operate a spacer and pay off a mortgage on the craft
must not be entirely penniless or without prospects.

Mrs. Niles added, "I suppose it takes money to operate, Mr. Farradyne."

"A fair amount. A spaceman begins to think in large figures so much
that he wonders how he can get along on a more humanly reasonable
amount. To clear a reasonable standard of living, a rather staggering
amount of money comes in one hand and goes out the other. Operating
expenses are high, but so are charges."

"But do you land on Mercury often, Mr. Farradyne?"

Farradyne smiled. "Perhaps less frequently in the past than in the
future."

"Now, that's sheer flattery," laughed Carolyn.

"Better enjoy it," observed her father with a chuckle. "Charles, you
are welcome here any time you land."

"Thank you," smiled Farradyne. "But all things considered, I should
think that you'd take a dim view of any man that brought your daughter
home wearing a gardenia."

"Gardenia--oh. You mean that it might be--" Mr. Niles laughed. "I think
that Carolyn has enough judgement to take up with the right kind of
young man, Charles."

"Of course," said Mrs. Niles. "Robert and Michael wouldn't stay friends
with the wrong kind."

"So, you see?" laughed Mr. Niles.

"By the way," asked Mrs. Niles, "how is Michael?"

"Quite well, the last time I saw him," said Farradyne, knowing that
this was the right thing to say at any time.

"You're sure?"

"Of course."

"I'm very happy to hear it," said Mrs. Niles. "We knew he was with you,
but we didn't know how long he stayed."

Farradyne gulped imperceptibly, and hoped that they did not notice.
"You did? Then he must have mentioned me."

"Oh, he did. Tell me, Charles, what happened to Michael?"

"Did something happen to him?"

Mr. Niles eyed Farradyne rather pointedly. "Mike took off with you from
Mars. He did not land at Denver, Mr. Farradyne. So what happened to
Mike Cahill?"

Farradyne gulped, and this time it was a full-throated gulp that left
him with his Adam's Apple high in his throat. Carolyn cooed, "Yes,
Charles, what happened to Michael Cahill?"




                                  XII


Farradyne felt a muscle-loosening tingle of fear. His thinking
mechanism stopped functioning. His mind buzzed with a frenetic
insistence that he say something, but being so completely unprepared he
could not say anything. And he dimly knew that his long speechlessness
was as damning as any story he could have prepared after such a pause.
Perhaps he would have been stunned short this way even if he had
concocted some story on the offhand chance that someday the question
might come up. But it had come like this, from an unexpected quarter
and he was both shocked and unprepared.

Then it occurred to him that he need not say anything. The die had
been cast and he stood accused, twice; once by the Niles Family and
once by his own shocked reaction. He must act for the next moment,
because the passed moment was irreparable. Farradyne laughed at his own
simplicity--a brief scornful bark.

"What is funny?" asked Mr. Niles.

"It just occurred to me that you people are either innocent or guilty."

"Very sage," commented Niles, drily. "Now, what happened to Cahill?"

Farradyne leaned back, trying to relax. He took a sip of his martini,
not that he wanted it, but to see if his hand were still trembling. It
wasn't.

He said, "If you knew Cahill and his whereabouts, you also know quite
a bit about me. You'll have heard that I was recognized in a bar on
Ganymede by a woman named Norma Hannon, who is a love-lotus addict. She
hated my guts because her brother was among those present when I had
the accident in The Bog. She hung onto me for the emotional ride it
gave her. I succeeded in locating the home of her parents and was going
to take her home when I met Cahill. He came along. Then during the
night, he made a pass at Norma, and she shot him for it. I put his body
out through the scuttle port."

"Cahill was always a damned fool," nodded Niles. "He was a dame-crazy
idiot and it served him right. Some men prefer money, power, or model
railroads, Farradyne. Women are poison."

"I seem to have followed one of them like the little lamb," said
Farradyne. "But I was picked up and brought here for a purpose, so
let's get down to cases."

"You're a rather quick-on-the-trigger man, aren't you? What gives you
to assume that this purpose was anything beyond finding out about
Cahill?"

"Because you've tipped your hand," said Farradyne, feeling more at
ease. "You could have accomplished the same thing by tipping the
police and waiting for the case to be newscast. If Cahill admitted to
hellblossom running, it was for a purpose, too, Niles."

"Please. _Mister_ Niles. I'm a bit your senior, Farradyne."

"All right. Mr. Niles. I've learned one thing so far: I can tell a love
lotus operator from the rest of the system."

"How?" They all leaned forward eagerly.

"Because it is the real operators that take an amused view of my
alleged machinations. They know the facts."

"Very sage. You are a bit brighter than you appeared a moment ago."

"May I ask why you let me cool my heels for almost a month before you
hauled me in?" He looked at Carolyn with a wry smile. "I would make a
mild bet that you weren't more than a few hundred feet from me all the
while."

"You're a blind man, Farradyne," she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Niles smiled knowingly. "There are a lot of unexplained items in
your past, Farradyne. We never could be too sure that you were not a
Sandman. So we've been checking up on you and for that angle you are
clean. Then comes the question of Cahill. It might be that you thought
turning in a love-lotus operator would help to smoothe your lot in
life, mayhap get you a bit of reward. So we waited. No Cahill. Cahill
started to bring you here; he would have turned up either with you or
without you. Unless he were dead. You would know the answer."

"No more than I've told you. Cahill came and made me a sort of sidelong
offer."

"That much of it rings as true as the other. But there are still holes
in your story."

Farradyne nodded. "Let's put it this way: There are ways of getting
money and things. I found one way, which is an obvious fact. But I've
been told time and again that the first entering wedge to a full
confession is a willingness to talk. Do you follow me?"

"I do. But--"

Farradyne smiled. "I don't care to face it. Not in company, Mr. Niles."
Farradyne's emphasis on the 'Mister' was heavy with sarcasm.

Niles looked at him piercingly. "You are a bit belligerent and a trifle
sure of yourself. Close-mouthed and apparently able to get along.
You'll be out on a lonely limb for some time, Farradyne, but we can use
you."

"I can use the sugar," said Farradyne.

"Naturally. Anybody can use money. In fact everybody needs money, and
so, Farradyne, what visible means of support have you?"

"I've a subcontract. Once each month I'm to lug a load of thorium
refines from Pluto to Terra."

"It's a start but it isn't enough."

"I'll pick up more."

       *       *       *       *       *

Niles leaned back and put the tips of his fingers together
pontifically. "One of the hardest jobs in this business is to justify
your standard of living. The financial rewards are large and the hours
involved are small. It is patent that a man who has not been granted a
large inheritance, or perhaps stumbled on a lucrative asteroid, cannot
live in a semi-royal manner without having to work in a semi-royal
fury. One of the great risks in this business is the accepting of a
recruit whose appearance causes discussion. The day when a man can
build a fifty thousand dollar home on a five thousand dollar salary
without causing more than a raised eyebrow is gone. If a man has a
large income, he must appear busy enough to warrant it--or at least
provide a reasonable facsimile."

"This I can understand."

"For a job like this," Niles went on, "we prefer the natural-born
spaceman, with sand in his shoes or space-dust in his eyes. Because
the man with a bad case of wanderlust always looks busy even when he
is idling. You seem to be that sort, but we can never tell until it's
tried. Unless, of course, you turn out to be woman-crazy."

"I'm a normal-enough male," said Farradyne. "I'll remind you that
Cahill was the guy who tried and failed."

"How normal are you? We'd have less liking for a misogynist than for a
satyr here."

Farradyne smiled serenely. "I had enough sense to keep my hands off
Norma Hannon, but I have enough red blood to come home with Carolyn.
That good enough?"

Niles thought a moment. "Could be. Anyway, we'll find out. We'll try it
and see. Now, when do you go to Pluto?"

"I've some schoolteachers to haul out there tomorrow."

"Good. Gives you a good background, without much labor. Now, when you
land on Terra, you'll not post your ship because you have already
contracted for a job. Carolyn will be there on a business trip and will
have chartered your ship for a hauling job back to Mercury. During
this trip you will get some more details on how you are to operate.
This much I will tell you now, Farradyne: you'll be an inbetweener.
Advancement may come fast or slow, depending on you. You'll get the
details later; as for now, however--" Niles leaned back in his chair
and smiled. "Farradyne, you met my daughter in a cocktail lounge and
several people heard the two of you planning an evening together.
So you will go dancing and dining and from this moment on you will
be Charles and I will be Mister Niles and we'll have no nonsense,
understand?"

Farradyne nodded.

"Good. Now, let's have another martini while Carolyn dresses for
dinner."

Niles poured. Carolyn disappeared. Mrs. Niles leaned forward slightly
and asked, "Charles, why did you become a spaceman?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne blinked. His impulse was to ask in turn why they had become
hellflower operators. He stifled the impulse because there was
something strangely odd about this set-up. Her question was quite
normal to the background she appeared to fill as matron of a happy,
successful family.

The aura of respectability extended far, to include the home and its
spacious grounds, so that Farradyne burned with resentment at the
social structure whereby he, who had committed no more than a few
misdemeanors, should be less cultured, less successful, less poised
than this family of low-grade vultures. If anything, the attitude of
Mrs. Niles shocked him more than the acts of her husband. Men were the
part of the race that played the rough games and ran up the score while
women occupied one of two positions: they were either patterned after
Farradyne's mother or they were slatterns and sluts who looked as well
as acted the part. It offended Farradyne's sense of proportion that
Mrs. Niles was gracious and well-bred instead of being loud and cheap.

Farradyne labeled it a form of hypocrisy and yearned to pull the
pedestal out from under them and dump them into the mud where they all
damn well belonged.

Farradyne matured a bit in those few moments of thinking. He had often
wondered why a clever man like Clevis would work at a dangerous,
thankless job in complete anonymity when he could have put his efforts
into business and probably emerge wealthy and famous. He began to
understand the personal gratification that could be his in working to
rid the human race of its parasites. In Niles' own words, some men like
money and some want power and others build model railroads; neither
money nor power were god to Farradyne, who had always been restlessly
happy with just enough money and power to exchange for the fun and
games to be found in being alive.

Farradyne was just discovering the threshold of a new outlet for his
wealth of nervous energy, and he looked forward to it eagerly.

Blandly, he started to outline a semi-humorous tale of his life and
adventures to Mrs. Niles, exaggerating his own early fumblings in a
casual way. She listened with amused interest, just as any mother might
use in hearing the background of a young man who was interested in a
daughter.

But in the back of Farradyne's mind was the niggling fear that he would
not be able to act the part of convincing suitor to the girl whose
background, attitude, and character he detested. He knew that a man can
lie in his teeth and play the role of spy convincingly, but he believed
that the truth of his feelings would be evident when it came to making
love to the enemy.

And then Carolyn came down the stairs in a white strapless evening
dress and Farradyne changed his mind. It was going to be extremely easy
for him to put his personal attitudes in a small compartment of his
mind and slam the door.

"You've got to dress too, Charles," she said in a soft voice. It was
low and intimate, unlike a woman of her type.

He nodded and got up.

Carolyn tucked her hand under his elbow and gave a little squeeze; the
last image of Norma Hannon's lackluster eyes faded out of his mind and
Farradyne became the man his role so urgently demanded.




                                 XIII


In the salon of the Lancaster, Farradyne smiled knowingly. "The plan
was to let you investigate the ship while I dressed," he said. "But I
gather that you've seen you share of spacers."

"I admit it," she replied. "For that I'm sorry, Charles."

"Well, park yourself somewhere while I get into whites."

She sat down and stretched. "A highball and a cigarette?" she asked.

"The cigarette is easy," he said, handing one to her and flipping his
lighter. While she puffed, he went on, "But the highball may be more
difficult. I've nothing but White Star Trail aboard."

She nodded at him. "With water," she said. She relaxed into the
cushions. Farradyne went and mixed her highball. She sipped it and
nodded approvingly. He turned to go.

"Charles?"

He stopped. Carolyn put her glass on the tiny tray and parked her
cigarette. She rose and came forward, lifting her hands to put them on
his shoulders. He stood woodenly. "Charles," she asked in a soft voice,
"Are you unhappy because I am not the girl you hoped I'd be?"

"How many men have you played this role for?" he asked.

Carolyn smiled, a wry smile that twisted her face. "I should slap your
face for that," she said. "Because when I tell you the answer you won't
believe me."

Caution came to him. He was the rookie hellflower operator, not the
young man who has discovered that his girl has been playing games
behind his back. He tried to fit himself into her picture and decided
that according to her code of loused-up ethics she might possibly be
thinking of a future: a pleasant home with rambling roses and a large
lawn and a devoted husband and maybe a handful of happy children all
creating the solid-citizen facade for dope running, just as her parents
were doing. If this were the case, Farradyne must carry roses for his
wife in one hand, toys for the kids in the other, and his hip pocket
must be filled with hellflowers.

He played it. He relaxed and put his hands on her waist. "I admit to
being a bit of a louse," he said, with a brief laugh. "But that's
because I'm a bit new at a very rough game."

She leaned forward a bit. "Even rough games have their rules."

"I'll play according to the rules--as soon as I learn them."

She looked up at him. "You know them," she said quietly. "All men and
women learn them at home, in school, in church. They're sensible rules
and they keep people out of trouble, mostly. If you adhere to the
rules, people will have nothing to attract their attention. That's what
father was trying to say when he suggested that you provide a visible
means of support for yourself. Play by these rules and we'll get along.
It's especially important when we must not have people looking in our
direction, Charles."

She sighed and leaned against him softly. "You asked me a question. The
answer is three. One of them preferred a blonde and they are living
quietly and happily on Callisto. The second couldn't have jelled
because he was the kind of man who would work eighteen hours a day.
Some men are that way and some women like it that way, but not me. The
third, Charles, was Michael. Mike didn't last long. Only long enough to
prove to me that he was a woman-chaser. The fourth could be you, and
maybe there mightn't be a fifth."

"Three men in your life," he said.

She smiled up into his eyes. "Three men in my life--but, Charles, not
three men in my bedroom." Carolyn cocked an eyebrow at him knowingly.
"The only way the fourth will get in is to make sure there won't be a
fifth. So now you know. You can play it from there."

       *       *       *       *       *

His arms did not slip around the slender waist, but the hands pulled
her close to him. He kissed her gently, and for a moment she clung to
him with her body. Her response was affectionate but only bordering on
passion. Then she leaned back and smiled into his face. "You need a
shave," she told him. "So let go of me until you can kiss me without
scratching." Then to prove that she didn't really mean it, Carolyn
kissed him, briefly, and ended it by rubbing her forehead against his
chin.

Farradyne went to his stateroom and showered. He shaved. He dressed
carefully in white slacks and shirt and the last remaining holdover
from a Victorian period, a dark necktie. He returned to the salon to
find Carolyn finished with her highball and cigarette and waiting for
him calmly and patiently. She looked him over, then got up and rubbed
her cheek against his and cooed pleasantly, but moved away when he
tried to kiss her.

She tucked her hand under his elbow and said, "Dinner, man-thing."

Farradyne chuckled. "Dinner," he repeated.

She hugged his arm. He led her down the landing ramp and into her car,
and at her direction drove to her choice of a dinner spot. The food
was good. Carolyn was a fine dancer with a high sense of rhythm and a
graceful body. Farradyne decided that if this were a thankless job that
gave no chance for fame and fortune, there were plenty of very pleasant
facets to it. Her shoulder rubbed his as he drove her home hours later.

He handed her out of the car and walked to the front door with her. She
gave him her key and he opened her door and she walked in, to wait for
him just inside. She came into his arms as the door closed behind them
and she clung to him, returning his kiss and his embrace; matching his
rising fervor with a passion of her own. They parted minutes afterward.
Farradyne moved her slightly, settling her body into a more comfortable
fit against him.

"It's late," she breathed.

Farradyne chuckled. "With the sun shining like that?"

She kissed him, amused. "It's always like that, silly. You're on
Mercury, remember?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne held her close and kissed her again. A minute passed before
he came up for air. He looked down at her, leaning his head back so
that he could see her face without looking cross-eyed. "I'll bet you're
a real mush-face in the dark."

Carolyn laughed, and shook her head. "Like all the rest of the women on
Mercury, I'm scared to pieces of the dark. But it's late, Charles, and
you've just got to go." She hugged his head down so that she could look
at her wrist watch on the arm about his neck. "It's five o'clock and
you're to take off at nine. Charles, please don't crack up just because
of lack of sleep."

"Okay," he said regretfully. "Okay."

She held him close. "It's been a nice evening, Charles. So kiss me good
bye, and remember that it won't be long until I see you on Terra."

"It gets dark on Terra," he told her. He tightened his arms and she
pressed against him.

Against his lips she murmured, "I might not be afraid of the
dark--Charles."

The promise in her last embrace stayed with him. There were only three
hours of sleep between the time he left her and the time of awakening
to prepare for the take-off, but dreams of Carolyn filled all of them.
They were pleasant dreams and unpleasant dreams; he saw Carolyn coming
to him with her past renounced, he saw her coming to him as a secret
agent who was in the hellish business for the same reason as he was.
And he dreamed of her waving him a good-bye with her dark eyes filled
with tears as she was taken off to the Titan Penal Colony. He even
entertained notions of joining them, justifying himself by thinking
that people who fall in with love-lotus addiction were the weaklings
of the human race anyway, and could be eradicated to good advantage of
the general level. This reasoning he recognized as sophistry.

But be it as it may, Carolyn was an attractive woman, and if her
companionship could only be known for a very short time, it was none
the less pleasant. It was a rough game they were playing and many
people were bound to get hurt. But more people--innocent people--would
get hurt if he called it off. So by the time Farradyne and his dreams
came to the conclusion that he could afford to take what pleasure out
of life this situation offered for the moment and let Tomorrow exact
its tribute when Tomorrow came, it was time to get out of his bed and
start the pre-flight check-off.

He had work to do. Schoolmarms to haul to Pluto and some refined
thorium ore to bring to Terra. He would make no signal this trip; he
was still far from being on the inside. Maybe the next. Or the one
after that, depending on his progress. But in the meantime, he would be
seeing Carolyn Niles on Terra.

Farradyne began his check-up, already anticipating the reunion.




                                  XIV


Farradyne watched them carefully as they came aboard and after he had
seen them he breathed a sigh of relief. There was something prim and
straitlaced about them all, and they would give him no trouble. It was
going to be a breeze.

There were a few whose faces and names correlated; the rest became
a confusing background of nonentities, uninteresting and bland.
Professor Martin was an elderly gentleman who herded them all into
place efficiently, and who knew enough about spacing to handle the job.
He took over and left only the running of the Lancaster to Farradyne.
There was a Miss Otis who giggled like a fifty year old schoolgirl; a
Mrs. Logan who probably had all of the boys in her class drooling;
a Miss Tilden who was old enough to be Farradyne's mother and a Miss
Carewe who was old enough to be Miss Tilden's mother and who also knew
her way around space, apparently. Miss Higginbotham was the she-dragon
type and Mr. Hughes was the know-it-all type.

He left them alone. They ran the galley and policed the joint and made
the beds, and one of them made a small water-color to hang in the empty
space over the tiny bar and Miss Carewe requested an oilcan because she
hated squeaky doors.

Beyond that, Farradyne saw little of them. He used his spare time
tinkering down in the tiny workshop, or demonstrating how the atomic
pile was controlled by the damper rods.

He was happy and free from care, even though the bunch of them took
over the more comfortable parts of the ship and left him only the
control room above and the lower reaches of the ship, below the salon
and the passenger's cabins.

He sat for long hours, thinking idly. He was lulled by the noises of
the ship itself; the faint sound of metal on metal, an occasional
groan of a plate or the creaking of a point. The moaning cry of a
motor winding up to take care of some automatic function and the click
and clack of relays and circuit breakers and the peculiar hum of the
servodynes that maintained the correct level of pile activity. The
muted sibilance of the reaction motor created a threshold level of
something like a constant heavy exhalation or the sound of seashore
from a distance.

And then a few hours before turnover there came another sound that
bothered Farradyne. It was a faint ringing in his ears.

He knew that ringing in the ears can come of too much alcohol, a box on
the side of the head, certain diseases--or a change in air pressure. He
was healthy, had not been drinking, no one had clipped him; but he had
spent a number of years in an environment where the air pressure was
damned important--

He sneezed and brought forth a tiny trickle of blood!

He couldn't believe it; any such change in air pressure would make
alarms ring like the crack of doom all over the ship and there would be
a lot of activity from the air-pressure regulators.

He hurried aloft to the control room, pausing briefly to listen to the
snoring along the curved corridor of the passenger's section.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lamps told him the story in a series of quick appraisals, because of
some long-forgotten genius who had insisted that, whenever possible,
warning devices should not be fused, should not be turn-offable, should
not be destructible. The Lancaster was a fine ship, designed well, but
a frontal attack on a panel with metal-cutting tools consists of making
the exception to the 'wherever possible' part of the design of warning
signals. The ship's bell-system had been opened like a tin can.

But there was another warning system: the pilot-lamp system, which
was strung here and there behind the panels and it would have needed
a major overhaul to be ruined; the saboteur would have spent all
night just opening cans instead of doing his dirty work inside them.
Farradyne should have been asleep; then he would not have noticed the
blazing lamps, which told him exactly what was amiss in the ship, and
where.

They told him the tale in a glance:

The low-pressure center of the ship was down in the pile-bay, and the
reason was that one of the little scuttle-doors was open. The pressure
in the reaction-mass bay was low, and now that Farradyne had come
aloft, opening the upper levels, the pressure here was as low as down
in the reaction-mass bay.

As he watched, another one of the scuttle ports swung open and its
warning lamp flared into life.

Farradyne went into action. He ripped open the cabinet that held his
spacesuit and clawed the thing from its hook. He started down the
stairway on a stumbling run, getting into the suit by leaps and jumps
and pauses. He realized that he could have moved faster if he stopped
to do one thing at a time, but his frantic mind would not permit him to
make haste slowly. He stumbled and bounced off walls, and the tanks on
his back rapped against his shoulder blades and the helmet cut a divot
out of the bridge of his nose.

He had zipped up the airtight closures by the time he reached the
little workshop, and he ducked in there to get a weapon of some sort.
He reached past the hammer, ignored the obvious chisel because it was
not heavy, even though it were sharp, and picked up a fourteen-inch
half-round rasp. He hefted it in his gloved hand and it felt about
right.

The air-break on the topside was still open, and Farradyne closed it.
He fretted at the seconds necessary to equalize the pressure, but
used them sensibly to check the workings of the space suit. He also
located the cause of the air-leakage; normally the air-break doors were
airtight. A sliver of wool or cotton string lay in the rubber gasket
and produced a channel for the escape of some of the air into the
pile-bay. Farradyne stooped, as anyone will, his attention attracted by
this trifle. It was neither wool nor cotton, but a match torn from a
giveaway book.

He threw it aside and went in, his attention once more on the important
business before him. He ran along the curved corridor--

And there, a figure in a spacesuit was quietly levering one of the
control rods out of its slot and preparing to hurl it into the void.

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne understood the whole act in one glance; it was the sort of
thing that he would do if sabotage had been his intention. The single
scuttleport had been opened first by hand. Then the saboteur had
scuttled the stock of spare control rods, and since the Lancaster was
reasonably new, there had been quite a batch of them. Furthermore they
were long, unwieldly, heavy things that took time to handle. Naturally,
this was the first act, because the next act would cause the ship's
acceleration to rise. The rise in acceleration would make the rods too
heavy to carry and would also cause investigation as soon as people
became aware of the increasing pressure.

Then the working rods would be hurled out, leaving the ship heading
hell-bent out of the galaxy at about eight gravities of acceleration.
The passengers and crew would be helpless.

Maybe two or three rods had been scuttled already. The rest,
functioning on the automatic, would be shoved in further to compensate;
Farradyne could feel no change in the acceleration pressure. But once
the working rods were all the way home, the removal of the next would
cause the ship to take off, literally, with the throttle tied down.
Farradyne was willing to bet the rest of his life that the safety-valve
that furnished the water-mass to the pile was either welded open or
damaged in such a way that supply could not be stopped.

Then--and Farradyne had to admire his precautions--the vandal would
make his way to the escape hatch, hit the void, and let the helpless
passengers go on and on and on.

The saboteur was well prepared. His suit was a high-efficiency job
capable of maintaining a man alive for a long time in space. It had
a little radio and a small and expensive chemical motor for mild
maneuvering. The man had friends, obviously, lying in wait out there
ahead, who would pick him up.

A passel of ice-cold-blooded murderers.

Farradyne saw the man through a red haze that clouded up over his eyes.
His evaluation of the act was made in a glance, in the bare instant
that it took for Farradyne to see the man and then get his feet in
motion. He plunged forward with a bellow that hurt his own ears.

The airlessness kept the sound in; the killer was not aware of
Farradyne until the heavy file crashed down on the top of his helmet,
putting a half-inch dent in the steel.




                                  XV


The man whirled and sent a heavy-gloved hand back against Farradyne's
face-glass. Farradyne lifted the file for a second swing and caught the
gleam of a heavy knife just as it swung upwards at his face. The blade
jabbed at the face-glass and blunted slightly before Farradyne's eyes.
The glass crazed, clouding Farradyne's vision.

Farradyne's second swing caught a shoulder-pad and sent the man
staggering back; the knife came up again and the gleaming edge sliced
space close to Farradyne's arm. The man stumbled and fell, and
Farradyne moved forward. The long lever used to handle the radioactive
control rod chopped against his shins and cut his feet out from under
him; he landed on his face in position to let the other man kick out
with heavy spaceboots. The heels rammed Farradyne's helmet hard down
into the shoulders and the top of the helmet hit the top of Farradyne's
head, stunning him slightly.

The other scrambled forward and landed on Farradyne's back. He pulled
up and back on the fittings of Farradyne's helmet until the pilot's
spine ached with the tension. Then the man thrust forward and slammed
Farradyne's face down on the deck. The safety glass cracked further and
there came the thin, high screech of air escaping through a sharp-edged
hole.

Farradyne lashed out and around just in time to parry a slash of the
knife. Blade met file in a glint of metal-spark and both weapons were
shocked out of and gloved hands to go skittering across the deck.

The man left Farradyne to scrabble across the floor after his knife.
Farradyne jumped to his feet, took three fast steps and leaped to
come down with both feet on the man's back. The other collapsed and
Farradyne fell, turning his right wrist painfully underneath him. The
other made a kick that caught Farradyne in the side, turning him over.
And as Farradyne rolled, his bent hand touched hard metal and he came
up out of the roll clutching a heavy pair of spaceman's repair pliers.

He faced the killer, standing again, armed again; spaceman's pliers
against assassin's knife. He plunged forward and felt the knife bite
against his suit; he swung the pliers as a club and caught the killer's
upper arm, then opened the jaws and bit down, twisting and pulling.

[Illustration: The spaceman's pliers were pitted against the assassin's
knife.]

A three-cornered patch ripped and came away between the jaws as
the heavy outer cloth gave way. The knife came up and bit through
Farradyne's suit across the knuckles of the hand that held the pliers.
Farradyne kicked, sending the killer staggering, and followed him,
probing at the tear to get at the thin inner suit beneath. The other
man struggled, hurled Farradyne away; but when Farradyne staggered
back, it was with the thin lining between the jaws of the spaceman's
pliers. The other's suit ripped and there came a puff of white vapor as
the air blew into the void.

The struggling killer stopped as though shocked by an electric current;
he stood there stiffly, his hands slowly falling to his sides, limp.
Farradyne took a step back, breathing heavily.

He could see, now that his head was not jerking back and forth behind
the cracked glass. He peered, in time to watch the froth of blood foam
out of Hughes' nose.

Hughes!

Farradyne wondered whether Hughes had cried out in a polytonal voice--

       *       *       *       *       *

He hauled Hughes into the air-break and slammed the door shut. He
valved air into the break and ripped Hughes' suit off. He felt for a
pulse and found one fluttering; he turned Hughes on his face and pumped
on the ribs in, out, in, out, wondering whether he was wasting his time.

Hughes groaned painfully. His voice echoed and re-echoed in the tiny
air break, but Farradyne could not hear more than the groan of a man
badly hurt. Hughes stirred and opened one eye halfway. Then he closed
it again and moaned under his breath. Farradyne checked the heart and
found it beating weakly; the pulse was not fluttering any more, and
the breath was coming naturally, even though the man's chest heaved
high and dropped low and there was a foghorn sound in the throat as he
gasped huge lungfuls of air.

Hughes would give Farradyne no trouble for some time. He carried Hughes
to his stateroom and stretched him on the bed. Then he went below and
closed the little hatches and reinserted the control rod, wondering
again whether missing a few would louse-up his landing.

He went to the control room and replaced the wiring torn out of the
audible-alarm panel. The phalanx of warning lamps had winked out, and
the clangor of danger did not sound.

Farradyne went back to Hughes' stateroom. "Can you hear me?" he
demanded.

Hughes awakened slightly. He looked up, his eyes dim but aware.

"You're a back-biting s.o.b.," snapped Farradyne. "And I'd have let
you die if it hadn't occurred to me that you might be good for some
information. What makes, Hughes?"

"Wiseacre," came from Hughes' lips in a whisper.

"What's the game, Hughes?"

"I don't know what--you're talking--about."

"I can break all your fingers and slip a hot soldering iron under your
armpits until you yelp loud and clear."

"You'd better kill me, then," breathed Hughes. "Because you aren't
smart enough to hold me."

"No? Hughes, you're wrong." Farradyne continued to smile as he went
into the medicine-bay and came up with an ampule and a hypodermic. He
filled the needle deliberately, eyed the dose critically and adjusted
the quantity by causing a droplet to ooze out of the needle until the
plunger was exactly at the mark.

"This is a fine pain-killer," he said. "Marcoleptine. Know it, Hughes?"

Hughes began to mouth curses. Farradyne paid no more attention to the
curses than if Hughes had been delivering benedictions. He caught the
man's arm, quelled the resulting struggle easily and locked the arm in
a cruel arm-bar between the elbow and the wrist beneath his arm-pit.
Farradyne lifted, and Hughes came up from the bed slightly; the arm
was both rigid and still because to move might break the arm. Hughes
glared; Farradyne put on more pressure.

Then, as deliberately as he had measured out the dose, Farradyne
slid the needle into Hughes' elbow, probed briefly for the vein and
delivered the shot. He withdrew the needle quickly and swabbed the ooze
of blood with cotton dipped in an astringent.

       *       *       *       *       *

He dropped Hughes on the bed and sat down on the chair beside the bed
and relaxed a bit.

"Marcoleptine," he said conversationally, "is a fine pain-killer--and
habit-forming as hell. You'll blank out in a few moments, and when you
come to it will be about this time tomorrow. You'll see me, because
I'll be here with another healthy needle full of the stuff. By the time
we get to Pluto, you'll be willing to sell your eyeballs for a jolt,
Hughes."

Hughes' eyes were heavy-lidded, but beneath them pure hatred looked out.

"As for the reason you're here, that's easy. I can almost quote the
Spaceman's Guide to Diagnosis of Common Ailments. I think it's on Page
two forty-four." Farradyne did not really remember, but he wanted to
keep a drone of speech running to lull Hughes' mind--and also to help
keep himself awake until Hughes blanked out under the marcoleptine.
"Coryosis, one of the nine allied infections formerly grouped under the
ambiguous term 'Common Cold,' is contagious but not fatal except in
severe cases of extreme sensitivity. Treatment consists of isolation
of the patient plus frequent intravenous injections of MacDonaldson's
Formula 2,Ph-D3;Ra7. Nobody will want to spend much time with you for
fear of infection themselves, which would be both hazardous to them and
to you because of the danger of reinfection.

"I heard you coughing and sneezing and I came to help and found you in
severe pain. Good Old Samaritan Farradyne is going to take care of you
and he will also lug you back to Terra. You wouldn't want to stay on
Pluto where it's cold even despite the Terraconversion program. There's
only one thing more. They'll want to see you even though it's only a
peek in through the door, so you've got to look presentable."

Farradyne ran hot water into the lavatory and soaped a cloth. He
slapped the hot cloth over Hughes' face and let the soap and water soak
in. Then he began to scrub vigorously.

The caked blood came away from Hughes' face easily. And so did dark
pigment: makeup. The dark-complected Hughes turned paler; the lines of
his face faded as the reinforcing pigment washed away. Schoolteacher
Hughes came off on the soapy washcloth.

"Brenner!" exploded Farradyne.

       *       *       *       *       *

But the man on the bed was out cold. Farradyne cursed his enthusiasm
with the marcoleptine, for his questions would fall on deaf ears and
torture would hurt only numbed nerves. He would have to wait; but there
would be plenty of time to pry certain answers out of Hughes-Brenner.

He left the doped man and went to his own stateroom and to bed. Oddly
enough, he fell asleep immediately and slept dreamlessly until it was
time to get up.

Warily he faced his passengers over the breakfast table, eyeing them
one by one. He explained about Hughes--"heard him moaning in the night
and found he had a nice case of coryosis. He's under treatment now and
he'll probably be out colder than a mackerel for some time."

There was no response that Farradyne could put down as strange or
odd. Either Hughes-Brenner had a confederate that was very cagey and
capable of running a good ad lib, or the crook was operating alone.
Farradyne felt that it was not impossible for the hellflower gang to
have a second operator on his ship to take over if Brenner failed,
perhaps unknown even to Brenner. But there was no evidence of such--no
more than there had been evidence of Brenner until the disguise was
removed--and so Farradyne decided to play cagey too.

He learned only one thing: the difference in attitude between himself
and normal people. Where Farradyne would not have accepted a statement
of sickness without taking a sample of Brenner's sputum or blood, these
people believed it easily and complimented Farradyne on his willingness
to help a fellow man. Farradyne carried this even farther by asking
Professor Martin about 'Hughes' and his home.

Hughes, according to Professor Martin, taught Ancient History in a
school in Des Moines, Iowa, but none of them knew much about him
because the teacher had joined them on Mercury not much before they had
contracted for this trip.

Farradyne then buttered up the program by suggesting that he take
Hughes back home to Terra, because a sick man would not find Pluto a
pleasant place. There was relief in their eyes; good and as honest as
they were, all of them were happy to be relieved of the responsibility
of a sick comrade. Some of them went with him to peek through the door
while Farradyne gave Hughes his medicine and they remarked on how pale
he looked. He was also weak enough to be convincing and he went back to
sleep as soon as the drug took hold.

Farradyne set a photoelectric alarm on the stairway below the
passenger's section; but if Hughes-Brenner had any cohorts from the
rest of the hellflower outfit aboard, they laid low. Farradyne kept
Brenner under dope until Pluto was looming in the sky, and then went to
him just before landing.




                                  XVI


Farradyne poised the needle. "Ready for another jolt?" he asked. "Feel
the craving yet, Brenner?"

Brenner grunted.

"Say it in that triple-voiced tongue of yours," snapped Farradyne. "Let
me hear you sing, Brenner!"

"Go to hell. I don't know what you're talking about."

"No? I'm surprised ... you mean there's something I know that you don't
know?" Farradyne loaded the hypodermic with slow deliberation, watching
Brenner's eyes to see if there was any sign of longing for the drug.
"Maybe I'll know more than I do now, pretty soon. I'm taking you off
the dope as soon as we get rid of the customers, so they can't hear you
screaming your lungs out for a jolt. You'll talk, all right. Put up the
arm, Brenner. Quietly and nicely--or I'll break it off at the arm-pit
and shove the needle into the other one."

"You're a devil from hell."

"And you're an angel, ripping out the damper rods to take us to
Heaven?" sneered Farradyne. "I owe you the works for that one. You'll
get 'em! Feel any craving?"

"No!"

Farradyne waved the needle in front of Brenner's face. "Maybe I should
think it over for a bit," he said.

"You wouldn't dare."

"No?"

"Look, Farradyne, no matter how smart you think you are, you won't get
anything out of me. And you'll not stop me from leaving this ship when
I want to leave."

"Trying to sidelong-urge me into slipping you your slug?" taunted
Farradyne.

Brenner held up his arm. "Shoot me the sugar, Farradyne. I could hold
out, but you couldn't afford to have me wide awake while we're on
Pluto. I know that as well as you do."

"You're not too bad off so far," said Farradyne, slipping the needle
into Brenner's arm. "But you're coming along. We'll find out how long
your nonchalance lasts after we get rid of the school-folks."

"Just go away and let me sleep."

"Have a nice dream," said Farradyne. "Because your next one will be a
wake-mare."

Farradyne waited until the eyelids closed heavily and Brenner's
breathing became deep and regular. Then he left him to explain to
the rest of the passengers that 'Hughes' was resting easily but that
the lack of sunshine on Pluto would impair his recovery-time. Then
Farradyne went aloft and into the landing pattern, one wary eye poised
for danger.

The Lancaster came down easily, and while the landing was as good as
any Farradyne had ever made, he was a jittering wreck from three hours
in the chair worrying about a recurrence of the Semiramide affair.

He checked in; the spaceport bus snaked out to meet them as they came
trooping down the landing ramp.

"All here?" called the driver.

"All that's coming," replied Farradyne.

"But the roster-count was--"

"Mr. Hughes has an attack of coryosis," offered Professor Martin. "He
is going--"

"--to be a bit late, but here I am," said a voice behind them. They
whirled to see Hughes-Brenner coming down the ramp, his bag packed, a
smile on his face.

       *       *       *       *       *

Brenner laughed and his voice was hearty. "I kept telling Mr. Farradyne
that he was going a bit heavy on the rest-cure. I'm really quite all
right." He slapped Farradyne on the shoulder. "Coryosis is not as
dangerous as the books say it is," he said. "Certainly it is nothing to
keep a good man flat on his back!"

"But--"

"Sleep and isolation did the job," chuckled Brenner. "And now I'll be
happy to let any doctor on Pluto look down my throat. I'm a bit pale, I
suppose, but I assure you I'm quite well again."

He climbed into the spaceport bus, still thanking Farradyne for the
medication that had kept him quiet, and waved back gayly as the bus
sped off across the Pluto Spaceport.

Brenner had become 'Hughes' again to his friends, and had disappeared
under the protection of a group of people above reproach.

He was a very extraordinary gentleman, Farradyne thought glumly; he
had been able to walk off the ship with his eyes bright and his system
hale, when he should have been flat on his spine with a brain full of
marcoleptine--one of the most completely paralyzing drugs that had ever
been synthesized. He had feigned doped slumber and helplessness, then
had walked away, knowing that Farradyne had not the legal right to
raise a cry against him.

Hughes was a very remarkable fellow.

Farradyne watched the truck bringing out his shipment of refined
thorium ore, with a sneer directed at himself. Outpointed and
outsmarted--the evidence he had was very meager. Evidence? It was more
of a belief than evidence.

What did he have to fit together? A common pattern of love-lotus
background. A man who died with a discordant moan. A man who grunted in
a polytonal when surprised by a woman, and who could take a paralyzing
dose of marcoleptine and then walk out jauntily. An apparent
well-to-do family with a proud place in the community, and a girl who
worked hand-in-glove with love-lotus operators but who had never had
her nose in one of the hellish things.

He sat bolt upright. Could Carolyn be immune to hellflower as Brenner
was to marcoleptine? And did she make with three-toned cries when she
was surprised?

The thought that he had been avoiding came back again. Obviously, since
he himself was susceptible to marcoleptine and women like Norma were
susceptible to hellflower perfume, and neither of them could sing a
trio unaided, there must be two kinds of people!




                                 XVII


Farradyne wondered how soon the fuss would start once the drums of
refined thorium ore went under some hidden beam of ultra violet light.
He watched the drums being trundled off and disappearing. He watched
and waited until it was evening, but no one came on the double-run to
ask him leading questions.

He finally took off about nine o'clock, and made the looping run from
New Jersey to Los Angeles in time to get there just about dusk.

He checked into the control Tower at seven o'clock, and went over to
the mail-listing window. "Anything for Charles Farradyne?"

"Expecting something?"

"At least one. A payment voucher from Eastern Atomic. Come yet?"

The mail clerk disappeared; came back with one envelope. "Nothing from
Eastern Atomic," he said. "But here's a letter for Charles Farradyne,
Pilot of ship's registry Six-Eight-Three, a Lancaster Eighty-One. That
must be yours."

"It's mine. But keep an eye peeled for a landwire payment voucher,
will you? I had to leave Newark before it was ready and the guy at
the shipping office said he'd notify the company that the stuff was
received at the 'port, and that I'd be in Los Angeles. Okay?"

"Aye-firm."

The letter was from Carolyn; a brief note telling him that she would be
ready for the trip on the morning of the fifth. This suited Farradyne;
he had been afraid that Carolyn might be waiting at the spaceport for
him, and that they'd be taking off before Clevis had a chance to find
out about the unwashed drum-ends.

She also suggested in a postscript that she would be in her hotel and
free any evening after nine o'clock. Farradyne looked at his watch and
decided what to do with the intervening two hours: he was going to buy
a love lotus, to check on the question of her immunity.

On this problem Farradyne had to admit a lack of experience. He
wandered for some time, entering one florist-shop after another and
getting nowhere. He could buy a gardenia for five, but the fifty he
offered for a 'Corsage' could only buy something resembling the garland
they put on Kentucky Derby Winners.

And then as his two hours were about gone, a seedy-looking character
sidled up alongside and said, "Lookin' for somepin', Jack?"

"Who isn't?"

"Might be able to fix y' up, Jack. Got a few?"

Farradyne looked at his watch. "I've got fifteen," he said.

"Won't take that long. Just try the stand in the Essex, and tell 'em
Lovejoy sent you to pick up his corsage. Cost ya half a yard, Jack. Got
it?"

"Got it."

The character slipped away leaving a faint aroma of decaying cloth
and a trace of gardenia, making what Farradyne considered a God-awful
mixture. Farradyne did not look to see where he went, but started for
the Essex immediately.

The flower-shop attendant was a dark, handsome woman in a low-cut
dinner dress. She gave Farradyne a mechanical smile as he entered.

"I'm a friend of Mr. Lovejoy," said Farradyne significantly. "He said
he'll be late, and asked me if I'd stop by and pick up his corsage on
my way."

"Oh. Of course. Just one moment." She disappeared for a few minutes and
came back with a fancy transparent box containing a gardenia--or a love
lotus. "That will be five dollars, sir," she said.

Farradyne took a fifty from his wallet and handed it to her. The girl
rang up five on the register but put the whole fifty in the till.

A few minutes later, the desk clerk at Carolyn's hotel informed him
that Miss Niles was expecting a Mr. Farradyne and he should go right up
to Room Seven Twenty-Three.

       *       *       *       *       *

Carolyn greeted him warmly, took him by the hand and drew him into the
room. Once the door was closed she came into his arms and kissed him,
not too fervently but very pleasantly, with her body pressing his for
a long moment. Then she moved out of his arms and accepted the flower.
"Lovely," she breathed.

She opened the box and held the white flower at arms' length, admiring
its beauty. Then she held it to her nose and took a deep breath,
letting the fragrance fill her lungs.

Farradyne's mind did a flip-flop. First he felt like a louse--and he
felt that it was only what she and her kind did to other women, and it
was damn well good enough for her. She smiled at him over the edge of
the blossom, still breathing in its fragrance.

"Maybe," she said archly, "I shouldn't dare do this."

The badinage was the same as it had been a couple of weeks ago, but
at that time both of them knew the blossom was pure gardenia. Now
Farradyne knew that it was not, and this knowledge made him wary. He
hoped his smile was honest-looking. "You're hooked already," he grinned
wolfishly.

Carolyn tucked the blossom in her hair and came into his arms, leaning
back to look in his eyes. "I'm not afraid of you, Charles," she said
in a low, throaty voice.

"No?"

Carolyn laughed at him and slipped out of his arms. She went to a
tiny sideboard and waved an inquiring hand at a bottle of Farradyne's
favorite liquor. He nodded. As she mixed their drinks, she said
quietly, "Don't disappoint me, Charles."

"How?" he asked, wondering what she was driving at, and feeling that
this had nothing to do with hellflowers.

She handed him the highball, and sipped at her own drink. "I think
you know that my family is a long way from poverty. And I hope you'll
forgive me if I point out that I know I am rather well equipped with
physical charms. I also flatter myself that I have a mind large enough
to absorb some of the interesting factors of this rather awesome
universe."

"I will grant you the truth of all three."

"Thanks," she said, smiling at him over the top of her glass. "But the
point is, Charles, that a girl with a bit of money in the top of her
stocking--and a brain in her head--wonders whether the gentleman is
interested only in the money, or in the shape of her stocking. She'd
like to feel that the gentleman in question would still be interested
if the shape of the stocking went a bit gauche with age, and the money
disappeared."

Farradyne looked at her and wondered. Carolyn was a consummate actress.
The hellflower was still in her hair, and Farradyne wanted very much
to take his face in his hands and ponder this problem deeply: Carolyn
Niles was the daughter of a hellflower operator, and, by all that was
holy, at least her parents should have taught her how to recognize a
hellflower at ninety paces in a dusky smoke-filled nightclub.

But he knew that he could not take the time to think this out now.
He had to reply. He walked across the room and took Carolyn by the
shoulders and shook her gently. "Let's leave it just that way," he
said. "Sooner or later something will give me away--and then you'll
know whether I'm after your body, your money, or your mind." Farradyne
kissed her lightly. "Until you _know_, nothing I say will convince you
of anything."

Farradyne still had her shoulders under his palms; Carolyn moved
forward into his arms and rested herself against him. She put up her
face for his kiss and held herself close against him. Then she said
dreamily, "You're a nice sort of guy, Charles, and I'll be very happy
to leave it that way. Maybe you'll be the one who stays."

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne recoiled mentally and hoped that this instinctive reaction
was not noticed. It was too easy to forget what Carolyn represented,
when she went soft and sweet and eager. Inwardly he cursed himself
and his all-too-easy ability to forget that this was not a personal
conflict.

Then he relaxed and decided that if this was what he had to do to cut
the hellblossom ring out of human culture, it was nice work if you
could get it. The job would have been much less pleasant if Carolyn
Niles had been a gawky, ugly duckling with buck teeth and a pasty
complexion.

"Charles," she breathed, "take me out into the dark?"

He laughed lightly. "Whither?"

She leaned far back in his arms, arching her fine body. "I want to go
to some dark and smoky gin-mill, and dance among the natives, to the
throbbing of tomtoms!"

Farradyne led her towards the door. The hellflower she wore in her hair
would do as much to her in a crowded nightery as it would if she were
forced to spend the next four hours in a closed telephone booth. He
wondered briefly whether he really wanted the damned thing to work; he
would much prefer to have her come to him without it--

The he forced himself to remember that she wore this hellflower not
because of his frustrated lust, but because he wanted Carolyn, alive
and vivid and charming, to change into the lifeless and futureless
woman that Norma Hannon was.

Their evening was a repetition of the evening on Mercury, except that
on Terra it was dark outside. They danced, and there was a steak dinner
at midnight, and there was Carolyn relaxed in his arms in the taxicab
on the way back to her hotel.

He took her up to her room and she handed him her key. They went in,
and Carolyn came into his arms again, soft and sweet. When he kissed
her, her response was deep and passionate in a mature sort of way
that Farradyne was not prepared for. It was not the mindless lust he
had expected. The woman in his arms was all woman and there could be
no mistaking the fact--but there was also the mysterious ability of
the woman to know when to call a halt at the proper height of the
lovemaking. She smiled a little, and put her hand on his chest.

"It's been wonderful again, Charles," she said quietly.

Farradyne rubbed his chin against the top of her head. Then Carolyn
swirled out of his arms. "It's incredibly late again, too," she told
him. "I'm going to come aboard your ship at seven tomorrow night so we
can take off before the crack of dawn. This much I'll tell you and no
more, now."

"But--"

"Easy, sweetheart, easy. Take it slow and lovely. Tomorrow night.
Tonight I need my beauty sleep."

He eyed her, saying nothing, and she laughed happily. "Charles, do me a
favor. Put this gardenia in the icebox for me. I'd like to wear it for
you tomorrow. Please?"

Farradyne nodded. Dumbly he nodded. Had that character bilked him out
of fifty dollars for a gardenia by calling it a love lotus? He watched
Carolyn put the thing into its plastic box, he watched her tie it up in
its original ribbon. She handed it to him, and then came into his arms
again for one last caress.

"Go," she told him with a wistful smile after she let him out of her
arms. "Go and dream about tomorrow night."

He went, half-propelled by her hands, his reluctance partly honest and
partly curious. But he went.

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne walked into his spacer feeling like a man who had put his
last dollar on the turn of a card and lost. One moment he was on top of
the world with everything going according to plan; the next, his world
was kicked out from under him and he was dropped back into the mire of
fumbling, helpless ignorance.

When he entered the salon of the Lancaster he stopped short, because
the last peg had been pulled out of the creaky ladder of his success.

"What's the matter, Farradyne? Aren't you glad to see me?"

There was plenty the matter and he was not glad to see her. But she
sat there as though she had every right to bedevil his life. Her
eyes widened a bit and she came up out of her chair and towards him.
"Farradyne," she said with more eagerness in her voice than he had ever
heard before, "you've brought me a love lotus!"

Norma lifted the flower from its nest in the box, eyed it with relish,
and then buried her nose deep in the center of the blossom and inhaled
with a deep, shuddering sob. Her eyes closed, then opened slowly to
look up at Farradyne from beneath half-closed lids.

Then, oddly, she relaxed. The tension went out of her body and she
sank back against the cushions. Now Farradyne could see her face more
clearly. Her features had lost their chiseled immobility and her eyes
had lost the glassy stare. Her face became alive and mobile, and
pleasant color flooded it. Her lips parted slightly and curved into
normal lines.

The hand that held the flower lay idly on the seat beside her, the
other hand lay palm up on the other side. She looked like a young girl
that has just been kissed.

"Thanks, Farradyne," she said softly. She looked up at him with a
mixture of impishness and friendliness. "You're a sort of nice guy,
Farr--no, Charles. Probably a big lumbering bumble-puppy that doesn't
really mean any harm."

Farradyne's mind at first refused to work on any but the single
thought: Why didn't it work on Carolyn? Then he wondered whether Norma,
so obviously normal now, would react to any gesture of affection, and
absently he took a step towards her. He felt once again that flush of
pity for her, and anger for the rotten devils who had done this to her;
he wanted to comfort her. She had changed visibly from a hardened,
lackluster woman whose beauty was stiff and unnatural, to a girl whose
loveliness was vivid enough to shine through the hard facade of heavy
makeup.

"Norma," he said.

She smiled at him warmly but shook her head. Her arms raised as she
tucked the love lotus in the heavy hair over one ear. The gesture
slimmed her waist and raised her breasts, and through the triangle of
her arms he could see her eyes. They were sultry, but they rejected him
as she shook her head slowly.

"No," she said, and Farradyne stopped. "You're a nice sort of idiot,
Charles, and I've stopped hating you for the moment, but that doesn't
mean that I want you to make love to me." The smell of the love lotus,
identical to the heady perfume of a gardenia, permeated the room. Norma
breathed it in, lifting her face as she inhaled and closing her eyes.
"The smell of this is all I want."

She put her head back, and rested. A smile crossed her face, and
Farradyne realized that she had dozed off in an ecstasy of relaxation.
He wondered what to do next; his mind was torn between the desire to
protect her by letting her sleep off the effects of the love lotus, and
the certain knowledge that if he did, Norma would never leave him in
time for his meeting with Carolyn Niles tomorrow night. And of the two,
the latter was by far the more important.




                                 XVIII


As Farradyne stood wondering what to do, a knuckle-on-metal rap came at
the spacelock entrance and he turned to see Howard Clevis coming in.
Clevis said nothing, for he had caught sight of Norma. He stopped stock
still and looked her over from hair to heels. His face grew bitter and
hard, and he turned away from her to face Farradyne.

"Farradyne, this isn't the contact you've managed to make?" The tone
was heavy with scorn.

Farradyne shook his head sourly. "She's the one that got me started,"
he said. "But--"

"You've started," snapped Clevis angrily. "That's a real hellflower
she's doping, you know."

"For God's sake listen!" yelled Farradyne.

"You listen to me!" yelled Clevis, louder than Farradyne.

Their voices rang up and down the corridors of the ship and Norma's
eyes opened. She looked happily at Farradyne, but when she saw Clevis
her eyes clouded.

"Howard," she said quietly.

"Why did you run away, Norma? Your folks--"

She shook her head slowly. "I know," she said. "There's even a reward
out for me that Farradyne tried to collect. I couldn't sit around
and watch my mother and father eating their hearts out. A son killed
and a daughter ruined--both by hellflowers. So here I am again. For
their sakes I wish I were dead--but that wouldn't cut the hide of a
hellflower operator, would it, Howard?" Farradyne gulped.

Norma went on: "Charles, may I have my old room for the night? I gather
that you two would like to talk business."

After she had gone, Farradyne said, "So you know her?"

"I knew her brother rather well," said Clevis quietly, "and I've known
Norma for some time. I knew her before--before--" He shook his head
as if to shake the thought away. "I gather that she thinks you are a
hellflower runner."

"That's right. But what does she think you are?"

"She thinks I'm a stockbroker. A former client of Frank Hannon's. Where
did you pick her up?"

Farradyne explained how Norma had announced his connection with the
hellflower racket, and how Cahill had been killed; how he had been
picked up by Carolyn Niles, and the subsequent sabotage by Edwin
Brenner, and all the rest of it. At the end he spread out his hands and
said, "This isn't all hard work and good management, Clevis. But here I
am. And now I have a couple of questions that I'd like answered."

"Yes?"

"Carolyn Niles wore that hellflower for six or seven hours without
turning a corpuscle. Norma Hannon proved that it was no gardenia.
There's something fishy here, Clevis. Does medical history indicate any
immunes to the love lotus?"

"Some. Not many. A few doctors have even gone so far as to claim that
the hellflower is no more dangerous than tobacco."

Farradyne swore. "Not according to Norma Hannon it isn't," he said
harshly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Clevis eyed Farradyne carefully. "You're not a bit soft-headed over
Norma Hannon, are you?"

"I doubt it," said Farradyne honestly. "She's a poor kid that got
clipped, and it makes my blood boil. I want to bundle her up in my
arms and tell her that it'll be all right, and I want to go out and
rap a half-dozen scum-brained heads together for what they did to her.
Normal, she'd be the kind of woman I could fall in love with, and I'm
not denying it. But Norma Hannon is a real blank, and any man that
married her would end up by trying to make her normal, and then what?
Y'know, if you doped up enough women with hellflowers, the birth-rate
would take a decline that would alarm a concrete statue."

"That's a hard thing to think about," nodded Clevis.

"Of course, I've never seen a woman just after she has taken her
first sniff, so I don't know how long after it a woman's libido is
still capable of being excited. But by the time they get to Norma's
state, a love lotus only changes their scar-tissued emotional system
to something barely normal whose only desire is to sniff the flower."
Farradyne shook his head angrily. After a few moments' thought
he went on, "Anyway, you might have a couple of ships follow me
day-after-tomorrow morning. We're going out somewhere--destination
unknown--to make a rendezvous with someone high-up in the business, I
think. And no matter what, Clevis, I think it wise for your fellows to
keep on my trail, because at least one faction of their gang is out
to clip me hard. Sooner or later they'll be sending someone of large
proportions to clobber me and then I'd like to have your gang move in
fast."

"There's more to it than that," suggested Clevis.

"Well--"

"Go on."

"All right, I will. Remember the cock-and-bull story that nobody
believed?"

"The three people in the control room of the Semiramide?"

"That. Well, Clevis, now I know that there was only one person in the
control room."

"Oh? Look, Farradyne, you're not trying--"

"No, I'm not. This came by accident. I've heard the same kind of
three-voiced cries--once when Cahill died, once when Brenner caught
sight of Norma Hannon in bright sunlight. I've been wondering since
whether it might be some sort of concocted language."

"Granting that for a moment, just how would you use such a language?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne eyed Clevis thoughtfully before he spoke. "I couldn't," he
said. "You'd have to take some statement like 'I've been shot!' and
break it down to utter the 'I've' in the upper register, the 'been' in
the middle tones, and the 'shot' in the bass region."

"Make talking fast--but difficult."

"Make it impossible," said Farradyne pointedly, "for a human being with
normal vocal chords."

"What are you trying to say?"

"Maybe it's another race, Clevis."

"A what?" exploded Clevis.

"Item: Carolyn Niles is immune to hellflower. Item: Brenner is immune
to marcoleptine. Correlation: they're both hellflower operators."

"Based on a grunt and a cry and an exclamation ... you're asking a lot
of me, although we've spent years following less tangible evidence than
this."

"I'll add one more item. Where do hellflowers come from?"

"We don't know."

"But you have combed the system for them?"

"Hell, yes--but there are a lot of places that have never been
explored. We can't cover all of them. So what's the next step?"

"Taking off with Carolyn Niles. During the next few days I'm going to
startle her, and I hope she grunts in three notes. Then I'll have a
nice tie-up."

"How so?"

"She has a hellflower-operator background. She'll have a three-noted
cry. And she's immune to the damnable flowers her gang deals in."

"Okay, that's your game, Farradyne. But in the meantime what are you
going to do about Norma?"

Farradyne eyed Clevis carefully. "You're going to drive her off in your
car," he said. "Because one of the games I'm playing is nosey-nosey
with Carolyn Niles, and there's going to be no addict cluttering up my
spacer. Norma is a bundle of trouble when she's not relaxed with a
snoot full of love lotus. She could louse-up the deal for fair if she
stayed."

"But what do I do with her?"

Farradyne shrugged. "Take her to a sanatorium," he said. "That'll keep
her out of everybody's hair, especially mine."

Clevis scowled. "I hate to put her in a sanatorium."

"What else can you do?" asked Farradyne, spreading his hands.

"Not much; but I feel that I owe her more than that kind of handling.
Those sanatoriums are little better than jails, you know."

"So I've heard. But what can you do for people cursed with a disease
that nobody knows how to cure?"

"Segregate 'em," sighed Clevis. "Well, let's see what we can do about
carting her out of the ship and into my car. About the ships--you'll be
followed at extreme military radar range, Farradyne. I won't be there,
but you'll have very hard-boiled company watching you."

They went below and found Norma. She was sleeping, relaxed as a kitten,
with one leg drawn up to uncover the other shapely leg. Her hands were
outstretched over her head, her breathing regular and normal. The
hellflower still cast its heady perfume through the room, and Norma
was smiling in her sleep, probably dreaming some completely normal
woman-type dream.

Farradyne plucked the flower from her hair. "This I'll need," he said
quietly. Clevis nodded.

Farradyne stooped down, but Clevis waved him away. "I'll carry her."
The Sandman picked Norma up gently. She sleepily protested, but put her
arms around Clevis' neck and let herself be carried from the salon.

Watching from the port, Farradyne saw them leave. They looked like a
happy party-couple, leaving after too many cocktails, with the girl
dozing on her man's shoulder.

Farradyne grinned sourly and shrugged. Clevis had bought himself a
bundle of trouble. When Norma really awakened, she would be without her
love lotus and would be back to her former self. She would pick Clevis
as a target for the only emotion she could really feel. Norma would
hate Clevis for taking her away from the man she could really hate in
spades. Redoubled. Farradyne shrugged again and went to bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Carolyn came aboard the next evening and her first request was for her
"gardenia." She put it in her hair and stood there inviting Farradyne
with her eyes. He kissed her briefly and waved her to a seat.

"Tired of me, Charles?"

"I've had no time to get used to you, let alone tired of you," he told
her. "But I'm more than a trifle curious about this trip we'll be
taking in the morning."

"Why not let it wait until then?"

Farradyne looked at her boldly, made no attempt to hide his careful
appraisal of her figure and her face. She accepted his brazen eyeing,
although she colored a bit. At last he said, "Let's admit it--there's
nothing I'd rather do than spend the night making love. It's one of my
favorite indoor sports. It's fun outdoors, too. But there are at least
two things against it."

She frowned.

He smiled. "You've made affectionate noises, but also a few statements
regarding your previous affections that lead me to believe you would
not applaud me if I slung you over one shoulder and carried you down to
your stateroom for a spot of seduction. Second, the way to get ahead
is to marry the boss' daughter, not make a mistress of her. Gentlemen
do not take kindly to daughters' lovers. So we've got to think of
something like chess or tiddledy-winks for the next few hours, because
I haven't enough ice in these hardened arteries to keep my hands off
you otherwise."

She leaned back and laughed. "That's the nicest compliment I've ever
had--in a backhanded way," she said.

"Then behave, Carolyn. Turn off the lure unless you really want the man
you're luring."

The laugh was still in her voice when she asked, "But how can I behave
myself when you've given me a love lotus, Charles?"

Farradyne's mind raced in a tight circle. He cursed his impulse to find
out whether Carolyn were immune, because it had now led him into the
problem of trying to square it with his role of a young and ambitious
man who felt deep regard for her. He parried for time:

"Love lotus?"

"A real one."

"But you--I--you wore it all last night! It can't be."

"It is."

Farradyne felt almost certain that Carolyn did not know of Norma's
visit, which had verified the hellflower's potency. "How can you tell?"
he asked blankly. "You did not react, and I--"

"I'm immune," she said flatly. "Why did you give it to me, Charles?"

"I bought it for a gardenia, Carolyn. Hell, I can't tell 'em apart."

"It's a genuine love lotus. How much did you pay for it?"

Farradyne almost felt a glow of cheer. He fumbled in his pocket and
came up with the cash register receipt. "The usual five dollars," he
said.

"Someone must have been trying to start another addict," she said in a
hard tone.

He looked at her. "But why did you wear it?" he asked.

"I wore it because I know I'm immune and I wanted to see how you
reacted. If it was for the usual reason, I was going to lead you on and
then send you packing." She looked up at him shyly. "I didn't want it
to be for the usual reason, Charles, but I was confused."

"But how do you tell them apart?"

"That I'll not tell you until tomorrow."

Farradyne shrugged. "Okay," he said, taking the love lotus out of her
hair and tossing it down the disposal chute. "So what'll it be? Chess,
or tiddledy-winks?"

"Astronomy," she said with a smile. "We can see no stars from where I
live on Mercury, you know."

He followed her up to the control room and stood behind her as she
peered through the spotting telescope. She leaned back against him and
rubbed her cheek against his chin.

"None of that, woman," he said sternly.

She turned in his arms and melted against him. He held her close for
a bit and then turned her around again to the telescope. "Remember my
creaking blood pressure, Carolyn."

Astronomy is a pleasant hobby. It took Farradyne's mind away from the
problem at hand, although the problem was inclined to lean back in his
arms frequently while he was readjusting the setting wheels; or to rub
his ear with her chin while he squinted through the finder to locate
another celestial view.

At midnight, Farradyne showed her to her stateroom--and kissed her good
night at the door.

He went to bed congratulating himself that he had succeeded in playing
the tender, high-minded, thoughtful lover.

       *       *       *       *       *

At six a.m., Farradyne checked out for space, still wondering where
they were going. Tower signed him off with a few crude remarks about
damned yawning people in the morning, and cited himself as a man
finishing a hard night's work. Then contact was closed and Farradyne
was free of the board.

He had two choices.

He could either wake her up because he wanted to be near her, or he
could let her sleep because he did not want to disturb her. He chose
the second and went down to the galley and had a heavy breakfast.
Afterwards he loafed in the salon, trying to plan his future.

She appeared about ten o'clock and reproached him for not calling her.
Then she asked, "Where are we?"

"About a half million miles out," he said after a moment's thought.
"But the important thing is that we're on our way but your pilot
doesn't know where he's going."

"Can you strike a line between Terra and Polaris at a distance of three
hundred million miles?"

"Duck soup," replied Farradyne. "But how fast?"

"Zero with respect to Terra at three hundred million."

"Let's go up and start computing," he suggested. "I'll construct you
some grub after we get the first approximation and get the ship on the
preliminary correction course."

He led her up to the course computer in the control room, where she
added the time of rendezvous to the rest of the figures. He plunked at
the keyboard steadily for a minute, then sat back while the calculator
machine went through the program of arithmetical operations for which
it was designed. He took the punched paper strip from the machine and
fed it into the autopilot, and then said, "Now we'll go below and eat."

"You haven't been waiting for me, have you?"

He nodded, hoping that he looked a bit lovesick.

"You shouldn't have."

She led him below and eyed the dirty dishes with womanly amusement.
"You're a sweet sort of liar, Charles," she said, turning and coming
into his arms.

He returned her kiss, thinking: "_these are the dames that try men's
souls_."




                                  XIX


Carolyn's eyes were fastened on the telescope. There was a tiny
signal-pip at extreme range on the long-range radar that controlled the
telescope, but the object was still too far away. The range was closing
slowly; they would meet somewhere out there three hundred million miles
above Terra to the astronomical North.

Farradyne knew his instruments and his attention was therefore free
to think of other matters. Very quietly he slipped a long fluorescent
lamp from its terminals and stood it carefully on one end beside him.
He balanced it exactly, and then took a couple of silent steps toward
Carolyn before the tube lost its balance and fell to the floor with an
ear-shattering explosion.

Carolyn Niles reacted like a person stabbed with a red-hot spear. Every
muscle in her body tensed and she stood there for a full ten seconds
as stiff as a figure of concrete, while the shock gripped her. Then,
as she realized there was no real danger, Farradyne could see the
relaxation of her body taking place, almost inch by inch. Her breasts
began to fall in a shuddering exhalation. She made a wordless sound of
relief--_and her voice was a quavering trill in three lilting tones_.

Farradyne's attention snapped into full awareness and he felt the
thrill of exultation run through him.

Carolyn relaxed against a brace, holding one hand under her left breast
and breathing heavily. "What on earth--?"

"Lamp fell out of its moorings," said Farradyne. "My fault. That's
one of the pre-flight check-ups that I didn't have time to take this
morning. Stay where you are and I'll clean up this mess of broken
glassware."

"Do you mind if I sit down?"

"Park yourself in the pilot's seat," he said. "But be careful. Broken
fluorescent tubing can be dangerous."

She nodded, and picked her way through the glass to the pilot's chair.
She looked up at him and said, "You don't seem to have been startled at
all."

"I had a few millionths of a second to get my nerves in readiness," he
said. "I saw it come down." He laughed. "Someone told me once that when
a person is excited he reverts to his native tongue."

Her eyes widened and her mouth started to open, but Farradyne went on
talking as though he hadn't noticed. "I didn't think your native tongue
was Upper Banshee!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Her eyes half-closed and her mouth snapped from slackness back to
self-control. "What did I say?" she asked.

"It sounded like 'I am slain to pieces,' but I don't know Upper Banshee
very well."

"You're making fun of me," she complained.

"No, I'm not. Anybody can be scared right out of his skin when
something like that happens."

"All right," she said, and her eyes were cold. "So you're not making
fun of me. You've been playing a very serious game with me, haven't
you?"

Farradyne blinked. "What makes you think--?"

"Let's drop our masks, Charles."

"Masks? Look, Carolyn, I'd better clean up this glass."

"Sweep it up, then. But while you're cleaning up the mess we'll talk
seriously."

"About what?" He got a brush from the locker and a square of cardboard
from the bottom of a ream of paper, and started to collect the debris.

"What do you know about our language?"

"Damned little," Farradyne said bluntly, all pretense gone. Suddenly he
was trembling with rage that wanted release. "Frankly, I've had only a
suspicion, up to this moment."

"So I gave it away myself?"

"Yes, damn you--you gave it away!"

"What do you want of me?"

"What do I want of anybody?" he whispered in a voice that was almost
lost in cold fury. "I had four brutal years clipped out of my life by
a three-voiced party-unknown who wanted to commit suicide bad enough
to take thirty-three innocent victims along with her. They blamed it
on Hot-Rock Farradyne, the spur-wearing spaceman." His voice came
back, and he was half-roaring. "I've seen the results of love lotus!
A wrecked personality that might have been a brilliant and gracious
woman. I've seen a man plugged through the middle, to die at my feet.
And on top of that, I've seen a family prosper and calmly make its
place in society by dealing in the stinking things that bring ruin and
death! What do I want of you? Your lovely, flawless hide peeled alive
and spread out before a fireplace!"

She shrank from him; looked wildly at the stairway and then back into
his face as she realized there was not a place in the spacecraft where
she could hide.

He sneered at her fear. "I'm not going to commit violence on you," he
said. "It would only give you pleasure to know that violence was my
last resort." He looked at her closely. "What kind of person are you,
anyway?"

Carolyn drew herself together; somehow her self-confidence had
returned. "Why take your hatred out on me?" she asked.

"You?" he asked harshly. "Why shouldn't I? How in hell should I know
what slinky game you're playing? One of your kind was responsible for
the Semiramide affair, but who's to prove it? Am I the character that
started tossing the con-rods out of the Lancaster? What was your former
boy-friend doing on my ship? Setting me up for another kiss-off? Hell,
woman, you'll be asking me next not to take these things personally!"

"You shouldn't. They're the fortunes of war."

Farradyne roared, so loud that his voice echoed and re-echoed up and
down the ship: "Fortunes of war be god-damned!"

Then he stopped suddenly and looked at her again. "War?" he asked.
"Between who and whom or between what, and where?"

When she did not answer, he sat down and put one hand to his head.
Carolyn started to say, "Charles--" but he looked up and said, "Shut
the hell up and let me think!"

"But I--"

"You don't want me to think?" snapped Farradyne. "Shut up or I'll slap
you shut!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He had enough evidence to make a shrewd guess if he could only sort out
the hodge-podge, and hang the material end to end. Some of it had to do
with combined suicide and wanton mass-murder in a wrecked spacecraft.
There were the Niles, who probably went to church on Sunday, belonged
to the Chamber of Commerce and the Ladies' Aid, and considered running
hellflowers a proper business. And daughter Carolyn, who wanted
marriage and a bunch of kids to bring up into the same hellish business
run so well by their grandfather.

And something important hinged around this triple-toned voice,
which now had been proven more than a hasty impression under stress
and excitement. Women who were immune to the solar system's most
devastating narcotic, and used their immunity to deal in the things
with safety, were bringing ruin to other women. It was a form of
warfare, and indicated an organization large and well-integrated;
capable of outmaneuvering capable men who had dedicated their lives to
stamping out the racket--and who died under the juggernaut instead of
destroying it.

Well, there it was.

No, there was more to be added. Brenner, who had tried to remove the
control rods of the reaction-pile, and who was immune to marcoleptine.
That was an odd-shaped piece of the jigsaw puzzle that suddenly dropped
into place with a click.

Farradyne tried to put himself in the position of Professor Martin,
who might have been a survivor if the Lancaster had foundered. Martin
might ask why someone had tried to kill him--just as Farradyne had
often asked himself why Party X had tried to kill Farradyne in the
Semiramide. The answer was that Martin would have been an innocent
victim in the second episode just as Farradyne had been in the first.
Party X had wrecked the Semiramide because there was someone aboard
with dangerous knowledge!

Farradyne came to one decision: there was a coldly-operating group of
persons who were themselves immune to drugs, and who were efficiently
undermining the rest of the human race by preying on weakness, lust,
and escapist factors that lie somewhere near the surface in the
strongest of human characters.

He raised his head and looked at Carolyn Niles.

She faced him squarely and asked, "Have you got it figured out?"

"I think so," he said coldly. "There are a couple of gaps yet which you
can fill in."

Carolyn shook her head in a superior manner. "You didn't just
_discover_ this thing, you know," she said calmly. "You were shown most
of it deliberately."

"Indeed?" His voice was sarcastic.

"We knew that someone high up and undercover had furnished you with
a spacecraft and a forged license, hoping that your reputation would
establish you as a racketeer. He used you efficiently, and so we merely
used you more efficiently. There are two ends to a fishline, Charles,
and we caught Howard Clevis on the wrong end of the line, so to speak.
We also--"

"You caught Clevis?"

"As soon as we knew who your contact was we pulled him in. So if you're
expecting a flight of military spacecraft to come racing up in time to
intercept the rendezvous ship out there, forget it. The military is
still on the landing blocks at the spaceport."

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne whirled and peered into the radar. The single pip was close
and closing the range swiftly, but there was nothing else on the
'scope. It was a huge ship, if the size of the radar response meant
anything, and Farradyne peered into the coupled telescope.

Nothing like it could ever have been built in secret anywhere among the
habitable planets of the solar system. The size of it was such that the
purchase of the metal alone would have created some notice, and the
rest of the project would require the resources of a planet to feed it
and the men that built it.

Farradyne turned away from the telescope.

"Baby, what a sucker you played me for!" he jeered. "So I was to be
your lover, your husband? Together, hand in hand, we go to cement the
first interstellar union. The mating of a jackass and a triple-tongued
canary, that the fruit of such union will be half-ass and bird-brained!
Well, if it's war your gang wants, we'll give it to 'em!"

Farradyne strode across the room toward the controls, and as he came,
Carolyn's hand moved swiftly, catching up the microphone and bringing
it to her mouth. She cried a singy-songy rhythm into the mike. It
reminded Farradyne of an exotic trio chanting a ritual celebration.

He slapped the microphone out of her hand. It hurtled out to the end of
its cord and jerked free, crashing against the far wall and leaving the
cord-ends dangling open like a raw sore.

He caught her by the hair and lifted her out of the seat and hurled
her across the room. She fell and went rolling in a tumble of arms and
legs until she came up hard against the wall beside the microphone. She
scooped it up and hurled it at Farradyne's head; he caught it in one
hand and dropped it to the floor.

He dropped into the seat and hit the levers with both hands. The
Lancaster surged upwards, throwing Carolyn back to the floor in a
painful heap. The acceleration rose to three gravities and then to four.

"This trick we take," he gloated.

Carolyn moaned; it sounded like attempted laughter.

He looked into the radarscope and saw that despite his four gravities
of acceleration the monstrous spacecraft was matching him and closing
the range.




                                  XX


Farradyne watched Carolyn uncaringly as she fought herself out of
her crumpled position and succeeded in flopping over on her back. She
spread-eagled on the floor, and her chest labored a bit with the effort.

"Forget it--Charles--" she said with some difficulty. "You can't--run
away from a ship--that can go--faster than light."

"I can try."

"You can't--win."

The radio speaker came alive: "Surrender, Farradyne! Stop and submit or
we fire!"

Farradyne fought the controls so that the ship slued sidewise, putting
another vector in its course. He twirled the volume knob to zero on the
radio with a violent twist of his wrist.

"They're your friends, but they don't mind killing you," he sneered.

"I'm not--afraid to--die."

"I am," grunted Farradyne. "I have some dope that I don't want to die
without telling."

His hands danced on the levers and the Lancaster turned end for end
and sped back at the huge spacecraft almost on a sideswiping course.
Out here intrinsic velocity meant nothing; the only thing that counted
was the Lancaster's velocity with respect to the velocity of the enemy
spacecraft. He had the advantage of surprise. He could go where he
pleased and the other pilot must follow him; and since Farradyne's
changes of pace and course would come without warning, each switch
would take a few fractions of a second to follow. On land a few
fractions of a second mean nothing; in space they mean miles. On land
a quartering flight meant closing of the range; in space where the
pursuit could not dig a heel into the ground, quartering flight meant
adding another vector to the course.

He widened the gap.

On the third pass, Farradyne realized that the interstellar drive
of the enemy ship must be some unknown 'all-or-nothing' device, or
force field, or something that demanded that ordinary interplanetary
maneuvering be done without the superdrive; and that once the gadget
was turned on, the enemy ship would dart into the next galactic sector
in a wink of the eye.

So long as he could dodge more agilely because of his smaller mass,
they could not catch him. They wanted him alive, naturally, and his
only danger was in the final escape. Then he would have to dodge the
target-seeking missiles they would launch at him under several hundred
gravities, capable of turning in midflight if he succeeded in ducking
the first pass.

He wished desperately for a cargo of bowling balls or steel castings
that he could have strewn in his wake. He cursed his lack of foresight
in not having the spare control rods replaced, because a few of them
might do the trick.

Farradyne stopped cursing.

Recollection of Brenner and the depredations in the pile-bay had
started a train of thought that he followed with growing interest. It
was long and it was involved, and it depended upon a large amount of
luck, good planning, and ability.

He struggled to the computer and played a long tune on the keys,
ignoring the fact that the huge spacecraft had finally lined up on his
course from behind and was closing the range.

The Lancaster made one more complex turn as the end of the punched tape
entered the autopilot. If Farradyne's computations were correct, the
Lancaster's nose was now pointed at Terra. The spaceliner behind made a
swinging turn and began to pick up the space it had lost.

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne saw he had plenty of time. He waited until the punchings on
the tape cut the drive a bit, then went below and came back into the
control room with Brenner's space suit. He got out patching material
and carefully repaired the triangular rip. Then he set about checking
it, testing the air supply and purifier, filling the food pouch and the
water tank. Men had been known to last seventy-two hours in a suit like
this without any discomfort other than the confinement; the primary
danger was running out of oxygen and the secondary danger was water
starvation.

When the suit was checked to Farradyne's satisfaction he took time
out for a last cigarette. He lit one and puffed before he spoke.
"Honey-child, I could outguess that gang of yours until Sol freezes
over. But sooner or later they'll get tired of the chase and end it by
launching a target-seeking missile, and that will be that. I have no
intention of sitting here and waiting for it."

"So what are you going to do?"

Farradyne reached up and stopped the clock. "I've punched a very
interesting autopilot tape. It'll dodge and swoop along at about four
gravities in the cockeyedest course, and lead your pals a long and
devious way from where you and I part company. Four gee is heavy enough
to keep you flat, so you can't louse it up. You can't measure time
too accurately, so when they grab you you won't be able to tell 'em
just when I took off. They'll have a fine old time combing space for a
man-sized mote, making his course to Terra."

"Charles--?"

Farradyne snubbed his cigarette out and dropped on his knees so that
he could look down into her face. "You've pitched me many a low, soft
curve to the inside," he told her quietly. "This is one battle you
lose, I think. So we'll meet again to take it up later."

He bent down with a cynical smile and kissed her on the lips. To his
surprise he found them responsive.

"So long, Carolyn," he chuckled. "Some of this has been a lot of fun!"

He donned the space suit and with a careless wave of his hand went down
the stairs. She was not looking at him, but at the ruined microphone
and the radio equipment far out of her reach. Panic showed in her face
and gave her some strength, but not enough to fight the four gravities
that held her flat.

Then as Farradyne lost sight of her, his jaunty self-confidence
faded. He was far from the bright character he had portrayed. Up
until not-too-long-ago, Farradyne had been complimenting himself on
being able to find out more about the hellflower operations than the
Sandmen, and it had not occurred to him that there was a reason for
it. Now he knew. It became obvious that fighting a gang of cutthroats,
and fighting an enemy race of intelligent people, were two different
things. About as different as Farradyne was from the brilliant operator
he had begun to think he was.

It required that he change his plans for escape. He knew that he could
flee the big ship and have a good chance of being picked up by a Space
Guard scooter as soon as he could get within calling-distance of Luna.
But the chances were just as high that the hellflower people would have
their entire undercover outfit alerted, and at the first radio call
would be swarming the neighborhood to pick him up.

He paused by the spacelock and cracked the big portal, thoughtfully
eyeing the huge starship, a tiny dot far below, visible only because of
its reaction-flare. Then he closed the lock and went down and down in
the Lancaster until he found the lowermost inspection cubby. He crawled
in, closed the inspection hatch behind him, and settled down to wait.

       *       *       *       *       *

Time creaked past, and the Lancaster turned and curved according to
the punchings on the autopilot tape. Farradyne had only one prayer,
now: that the enemy ship would not get tired of the chase and fire
a target-seeking missile, ending the whole game with a wave of
intolerable heat and indescribably bright light. Carolyn's presence
aboard the Lancaster might prevent that until the last moment.

The hour-period ended with the Lancaster pointing up on a quartering
course from Terra and Sol--a long way from the point of his supposed
escape. Not long after that, Farradyne heard the clink of magnetic
grapples.

He tensed again. Would they fine-comb the Lancaster? Or would the
question-and-answer session with Carolyn convince them that he had
abandoned ship? If so, would they take her off and blast the Lanc' or
would they deem it of value and keep it?

His mind went on with unanswerable questions: how good was their radar?
How alert was their radar operator? Were both good enough to state
unequivocably that there had been no object leaving the Lancaster on a
tangential course? Or would there have been the usual clutter of noise
and interference, so that no one would doubt that he had left the ship?
And, assuming that the enemy considered a spacecraft valuable, where
would they take it and what would they do with it?

Far from feeling gratified at his maneuver, Farradyne felt only
satisfied to be alive and temporarily out of the hands of the enemy.
What happened from here on in must be played by ear against an unknown
score for three voices.

The drive of the Lancaster dropped from four gravities to about one,
and Farradyne could hear dimly the clumpings of heavy feet. Then the
drive diminished again, remaining at about a quarter-gravity or maybe
less, and there were sounds of feet above his head. He tasted the acid
in his mouth; he found his heavy automatic and clutched it clumsily in
the heavy space-glove and prepared to give back whatever they gave him.
Capture might be preferable to death--but Farradyne had every right to
believe that the enemy could not permit him to stay alive with what he
knew about them, even though it was precious little.

The cubby he was hiding in was annularly shaped; to one side was
space beyond the hull-plates. Inside was the water-jacket that cooled
the throat of the reaction motor. Farradyne moved quietly around the
central pillar until he was on the opposite side from the inspection
hatch and settled down to wait.

On the plates above his head was the scraping of something heavy being
hauled across the deck.

He heard the sound of triple-toned voices in both musical and
discordant sounds, distorted and muffled by the deck and by the helmet
he wore. Someone fiddled with the inspection hatch; and Farradyne found
the scuttlebutt and valved air out into space so the enemy would have
a hard time cracking the hatch. Whoever it was gave up after a moment;
and then came the sound of drilling on the deck-plates above him. A
cloud of whitish vapor spurted downward and the sound of alien voices
rose sharply as the drill came through. Three more spurts of escaping
air blasted downward in whitish vapor that skirled around the annular
room and went in a fading draw towards the scuttlebutt.

Plugs filled the four holes and Farradyne turned his head-torch on
them. They were heavy self-tapping bolts being turned in from above.
There was a softer sound of scraping, and the clumping of feet; then
the sound of men at work faded away.

Farradyne took a deep breath and realized that his skin was itching
from the cold perspiration that bathed him. The taste in his mouth was
brackish; his heart was pounding and his breath was shallow and rapid.
He opened his mouth to gasp and discovered that he had been clenching
his teeth so hard that his jaw ached.

He closed the scuttlebutt, but did not valve any air into his hiding
place. He put the top of his helmet against the deck-plates above him
and listened. Far above he could hear them, still at work; but they
were going higher and higher in the ship.

He relaxed, waiting.

Three more hours passed, as nerve-wracking as any Farradyne had ever
spent. Then, with absolutely no warning, the drive went off completely.
He floated from the deck and scrabbled around to grab a stanchion,
finally getting his magnetic shoes against a girder where they held him
at an odd angle.

The drive went on to a full one-gravity and hurled Farradyne flat
against the bottom of the cubby, wrenching his ankles slightly. The
drive went off again, and then on, and finally off. This time it stayed
off.

Floating free, with only his feet for mooring, was like resting in
a tub of body-temperature water; and as the lulling, muscle-freeing
sensation went on and on, Farradyne's mind lulled and he dozed. From
the doze, he dropped off into a deep slumber.




                                  XXI


Farradyne awoke to the pressure of about one-gravity and began to
wonder how far the Lancaster had carried him under its jury-rigged
drive. His watch said that fourteen hours had passed since
weightlessness had come, but this was no good for an estimate of
distance.

The whole thing was incomprehensible to him. Interstellar travel in
a matter of hours made his mind reel, and the idea of installing a
gadget that made it possible with the ease of installing a radio in
an automobile only added to the inconsistencies. All he could grasp
of it was that the gadget the alien race had must be some sort of
force-field generator that worked independently of the basic reaction
motor and therefore could be turned off or on at will. He gave up
trying to theorize and began to consider the more personal problem of
his location and what he could do.

He cracked the scuttlebutt and found that the ship was a-planet. He
listened and heard nothing, not even the familiar sounds of a ship in
warm-up. He cracked the hatch of his cubby and looked out. The small
corridor was as dark as the grave, and as silent. Boldly he stepped out
and looked around under the light of his spacesuit torch.

Bolted to the floor were four rectangular boxes of metal connected
together by a heavy cable, and from one a second cable ran to a
standard connector set in the wall of the Lancaster.

Like all other Solarian spacecraft, the Lancaster was well-supplied
with a network of cables running up and down the length of the ship
to serve as test connections and spares for this or that equipment
when needed. So the enemy had re-connected their multi-line cable to
one of the standard Terran connectors and plugged the cable into the
Lancaster's cable-plate.

Farradyne could see nothing about the metal boxes that would tell him
anything, so he left them and went aloft, cautiously. He doffed the
spacesuit at the next level and hung it neatly in a suit locker, before
he continued up the stairways.

Out of one porthole he could see the spaceport. It was broad and dark
except for a bouquet of searchlights that drilled into the sky around
the rim, a wash of floodlamps that surrounded one of the vast starships
a mile or so distant, and the far-off blurs of bright red light that
probably read "Spaceman's Bar" in whatever the enemy used for a printed
language.

He left the viewport and went higher until he came to the salon. He
peered into it from floor level, but it was dark and untenanted. The
spacelock was open and Farradyne looked out of the big round opening
across the field to another huge starship standing a few hundred yards
from the Lancaster. The other ship was as dark as the Lancaster, except
for one small porthole that gleamed like a headlight in the darkness.

The problem of where he was sent him to the control room. He looked
into the sky, hunting for familiar constellations. The Pleiades were
there, but warped, and Farradyne found that while he knew they were
distorted as an aggregation of stellar positions, he could not remember
their proper relationship. Orion was visible, but the hero had hiked
his belt up. The Great Bear was sitting on his haunches, and the
Smaller Bear had lost his front feet. Sirius no longer blazed in Canis
Major. Procyon had taken off for parts unknown, while several other
bright stars dotted the skies in places where no stars had been on
Terra.

He tried to recall visits to the big stellatarium in New York where the
lecturer displayed the skies as seen from various well-known stars that
were within a half-hundred light years of Sol; but he found that he
evidently had not been as attentive as he might have been.

       *       *       *       *       *

Finally he gave up hoping to establish his whereabouts by visual
inspection, and took his first look at the control room. He could
see nothing changed at first; then he found a small auxiliary panel
beside the pilot's seat, which contained a bar-topped toggle switch and
three pilot lamps quite different in appearance from the rest of the
Lancaster's standard equipment. He felt an urge to try the toggle, but
fought it down; it was too much like playing with toy building blocks
made of subcritical masses of plutonium, and Farradyne wanted to stay
alive long enough to _watch_ the ruin of the enemy, not become a part
of it.

He got his 20-power binoculars from the locker and went down to the
spacelock. The near-by starship was as abandoned as the Lancaster,
except for that one bright porthole. Through it he could see nothing
but one corner of wall and ceiling.

A sudden flash of light made Farradyne drop to the floor of the salon
and wriggle forward cautiously to the edge of the door.

A vehicle of some sort had turned in at the spaceport from the rim, and
its headlights had flashed against his face. He looked at it through
the glasses but could not see beyond the glare of the headlights; the
car was coming swiftly toward the Lancaster.

Farradyne gathered himself to make a grand rush for his cubby, but
stayed to watch because he could make safety after he was certain that
the car would stop at the Lancaster. Instead, the vehicle swung around
the interstellar ship and stopped by the landing ramp. Three men and a
woman got out--

"Norma!" breathed Farradyne.

High in the enemy ship, one porthole winked off and the one beside it
winked on, and a few minutes later Farradyne saw the same trio of men
escort Clevis from the landing ramp and hand him into the spaceport
jeep. The engine roared and they took off for the rim of the port.

Farradyne looked around the spaceport and wondered. It seemed such
a cozy place, completely unguarded so far as he could tell. This
undoubtedly meant that the port was a restricted zone and anybody
permitted inside the boundaries was known and recognized before he got
in.

The jeep disappeared, and Farradyne came down his landing ramp and
scooted across the flat spaceport to the starship.

Inside the spacelock was a small ante-room with an elevator and some
stairs. Farradyne did not trust the elevator; he turned and raced up
the stairs, ignoring the warnings of his own mind that this was a
completely foolhardy stunt.

Up and up he went, around circular corridors, past dark doorways
and sealed hatches, until he was both winded and muscle-weary from
climbing. He paused from time to time to orient himself by a quick look
out of the nearest porthole that faced the Lancaster, until he found
that he was at the right level above the control room of his own ship.
The next level above brought him to a door that had a thin line of
light along the bottom.

Across the door was a metal bar, but the slide-aside keeper, with a
hole in it for a lock, hung open; the enemy had not considered it
necessary to lock the door against outside tampering.

Farradyne slipped the keeper aside and lifted the bar.

       *       *       *       *       *

Norma stood there just inside the door, waiting. Her hands were on her
hips and there was a cold glitter in her eye. It flickered and failed
as she recognized Farradyne.

"Well!" she snapped. "If it isn't our Boy Scout and Man-about-space who
claims he doesn't know where hellflowers come from!"

"I didn't--but I'm learning fast," he told her. "Maybe you can help. Do
you know where we are?"

"Your friends asked questions. They didn't tell me anything."

He looked at her sourly. "I wish I'd known the other light in the
window was Clevis," he said.

"So you didn't know?" she cried angrily.

Farradyne waved a hand sidewise and it shut her up. "Stop making like a
fishwife and think! You have a good mind--for God's sake, use it!"

She looked at him calculatingly. "Just what do you expect me to assume?"

"Let's assume that I'm what I said I was," he said. "And let's assume
we're fighting an undeclared war against a powerful enemy. An enemy
that is running down the moral fiber of our race so they can walk in
and take over without an open battle. Does that make sense?"

Norma considered it a moment. "Of course. Nobody wins a shooting-war.
But which side are you on, Farradyne?"

He grunted. "Norma, just who was your brother?"

"Frank was one of Howard's best men," she said simply.

"More of the pattern clearing up," he sighed. "They killed your
brother, getting a lot of innocent bystanders in the process. They
tried to kill me the same way, although I didn't have anything more
than a crude idea to go on."

Norma looked at him soberly. "I hate to admit it, but I've heard this
three-tongued language of yours. So that makes you right on one count
anyway."

"We're not fighting only a well-integrated mob," he said. "We're
fighting a complete stellar culture."

"You say 'we' so blithely. Tell me how you managed to turn up like the
proverbial bad penny."

"I outguessed 'em, finally. I was right, for once--" He explained how
it had been done in a few rapid sentences.

"We saw them catch the Lancaster, and wondered why you suddenly
went dead at the board after dodging them so well. Damn it,
Farra--er--Charles, you've done it."

"Done what?"

"Convinced me. You aren't here to play the friend-in-need act to get
more information out of me, after loading me to the gills with stuff
out of a needle that makes me babble like a marmoset. So you're here
for what you say."

"Why did they bring you back here?" he asked. "It seems to me they'd
toss you in the locker."

"That's for later. Right now they're comparing my story with Howard's,
and after that we'll both be taken to their 'Detention Planet' in some
other stellar system and kept as last-ditch hostages in this war. There
seem to be a lot of people who got too bright for the enemy and they're
all there, too."

Farradyne swore. "The stinking bastards--!"

Norma shook her head coolly. "That's emotion, Charles. I don't know
exactly what their purpose is, but I do understand that this is a
conflict for eventual survival, and for the rule of an economic empire."

"But--"

Norma shook her head slowly. "Put the shoe on the other foot, Charles.
Suppose you and your kind had come upon these people--how would you see
them?"

"As possible allies and friends, and--"

"Balderdash. You'd have seen them as possible customers, and people to
be exploited, and maybe enemies after you knew their history. Their
attitude is as arrogant as ours, and their personal justification is
as high. By some lucky break they got to interstellar travel before we
did and so they automatically place us in an inferior position; but
they know that this doesn't make us a push-over. We are scientifically
capable of discovering their interstellar drive at any moment, and why
we haven't is probably just a matter of our not combining the right
sciences. Our knowledge of medicine is far wider than theirs, for
instance."

"How can you know this?" he asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

Norma slipped open a few buttons at her throat and slipped her dress
down from one shoulder. There was a tiny circular white bandage stuck
to one spot. "They took a sample of me," she said, "because I seem
to be immune to several diseases that should give me trouble. When I
asked about this, they told me that they hoped to discover just what
cell-change takes place when we take our anti-cancer immunization. That
thing they have yet to discover."

"But--"

"Oh, they use our immunization," she said, slipping the dress up. "But
they use it as an African witch doctor might use a typhoid serum. The
thing you have to remember, Charles, is that if Terrans had gotten
there first there would have been the same conflict, but started by the
other side."

Farradyne shook his head angrily. "We're not inclined to ruin--"

"Stop sounding like one of King Arthur's knights. Men of sense and good
judgment don't request their enemies to meet them on a field of honor.
Instead, a state of war is assumed and from that instant on 'A' is
looking for a chance to stab 'B' in the back because he knows that 'B'
will cut him off at the hips if he turns his back for a moment. So both
sides know that open warfare means total destruction and the process is
one of boring from within, or gnawing at the foundation. But this is no
place to get involved in a discussion of ethics, Charles. Where do we
go from here?"

"If I knew how to run that ka-dodie in the Lancaster we'd head for
Sol--if I knew where Sol was."

"And how about Howard?"

"I don't know about Clevis," he told her. "The thing to do would be
to hike it home as fast as we could and spill our tale to the people
who'd know what to do. Let's face it, Norma. They can mingle with
Terrans because they can speak our language. But I couldn't mingle with
them to locate Howard. I'd be picked up in a minute."

"So how do we get back?"

"Why do you think they brought the Lancaster?"

"Probably to fit her out as a bona-fide hellflower runner."

"Okay, then, we'll hide out in my cubby until they run her back."

"You hide out," said Norma. "If they find me missing from here they'll
know that something smells."

Farradyne chuckled. "They're as arrogant as the Gods of Olympus. Part
of their gang is still expecting me to turn up near Terra on an escape
course, and the only smart thing I've done in this game is to be where
they didn't dream I'd be. So we'll be where they don't expect us, and
maybe we'll get away with it. Come on, let's hide out."




                                 XXII


Halfway down the stairs in the Lancaster, Farradyne put out a hand and
whispered, "Trouble."

"I don't hear anything."

"Someone's tinkering with something down below. See the dim light?"

"Oh," she nodded. Farradyne waved her back, and stole down the stairs
and peeked cautiously around the corner. A man sat on the floor with
his back to Farradyne, probing into one of the mysterious boxes with a
long-handled tool.

He went back to Norma. "They're tuning up the drive."

"What do we do now?" she asked.

"Hide somewhere until that guy is finished."

"We can wait it out," said Norma thoughtfully. "Then if trouble comes
at the last moment, I can slide out of here like a startled rabbit and
draw the chase away from you."

"But I'm--"

"Stop being noble. You're not known to be here--you might get away
with it. Besides--"

The sound of an engine cut them off. From not too far away came the
rapid sing-song of triple voices, and, following the chant, the
irritated voice of Carolyn Niles: "Stop that, you imbeciles. Speak
Terran!"

"Why?" came the insolent reply.

"Because I don't want to get into the habit of speaking out of turn. I
did it once and you know what happened."

"I merely asked when we were taking off."

"As soon as we get aboard."

"Okay. Okay."

Farradyne nudged Norma with his elbow and whispered, "The cargo hold.
We're pincered!"

He led her to the cargo hold and helped her down the service ladder.
He followed, closing the door behind him; then, before he snapped out
the dim lights, he reached up and removed one of them, saying, "I don't
think we'll have an inspection, but if we do, one lamp missing will
make a shadow that might help."

Huddled down in the corner of wall and floor, they sat with their feet
pulled up beneath them, not daring to say a word. They waited in the
dark silence, listening, and occasionally tensing when someone clumped
past the wall outside or near the cargo hatch above their heads. There
were voices and calls and running feet from time to time, and then the
humming sound of the belt-conveyor.

The hatch above was opened wide but the lights were not snapped on.

From the end of the loose-cargo conveyor came tumbling a shower of love
lotus blossoms. They landed on the floor in a conical pile and kept on
coming until both Farradyne and Norma were sitting shoulder deep in the
flowers. The air filled with the thick, syrupy perfume. Farradyne felt
a dizziness from the heady odor and wondered with horrified interest
just what effect this completely unpredictable overdose of dope would
have on Norma.

The shower of hellflowers came on and on, and Farradyne was forced to
stand up because of their depth. Still they came, and he found himself
swimming in them; it reminded him of treading in a haymow. The rain of
blossoms ceased as the hold filled, and the lights went on briefly for
an inspection.

Farradyne was propped neck deep, his head barely below the ceiling, and
he felt quite safe from detection unless the inspectors put their heads
down into the hatch to peer around the edges of the cylindrical cargo
hold. He looked at Norma. She had scrabbled up a-top of the pile and
was lying on her back with her arms thrown up over her head. Her eyes
were closed, but as she drew in a deep breath, the lids went half-up
and she looked over at Farradyne and smiled.

The hatch slammed down, and she said, huskily, "Such nice friends you
have, Charles. This is--" Her voice trailed away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pressure came upsurging and Farradyne knew that the Lancaster was on
its way to space and perhaps back home. In the midst of the take-off
pressure she found his hand and drew it towards her, snuggled her face
against his palm. Her free hand came over and touched his cheek, then
ran back around his head. She pulled him forward until she could rest
her head against his shoulder.

She kissed his cheek, a brief invitation; then he could feel the soft
breath from her lips, parted an inch or so from his, waiting.

His voice was harsh, "Invite me to make love to you after we get this
affair settled and find you a cure."

Her lips cut off his voice, soft and warm and vibrant. Her fingers ran
through his hair and pressed his face to her. He struggled a bit; his
hands closed on either side of her waist but instead of moving away,
her body came forward against his.

Then, abruptly, the pressure of the drive went off and they floated
free.

Their weight upon the cushion of flowers was released and the
springiness of the hellblossoms thrust them up, hard, hurling them at
the ceiling.

Norma's hands were dragged free of his head and, in clutching at him
frantically, her fingernails raked his cheek slightly. The pressure
he held against her waist thrust her away as soon as she lost her
leverage. Her head hit the ceiling with a dull thunk. A sigh came from
her lips--the sigh of an unconscious person.

The hold was filled with love lotus, floating free and spread apart by
the tiny pressure of the ends of their leaves and petals; Farradyne
fought them away frantically but only succeeded in digging himself
deeper in the room.

Eventually he found the service ladder and clung to it, waving himself
a breathing-space by pushing the floating blossoms back.

Norma's inert hand touched him limply.

Farradyne toyed with the idea of reviving her but gave it up instantly;
let her sleep it off. He gave the hand a push and she floated from him
in the dark.

The exertion had called upon his reserves and he drank in lungfuls of
air that was sticky and cloying. It made him dizzy again. He scrabbled
up the ladder and found the hatch, and opened it cautiously. It was as
dark outside as it was inside. Farradyne pushed the hatch up more and
put his face in the clean air and took a deep breath. Then, because
he felt better, he climbed out of the hold and floated free in the air
above the hatch. He grabbed a handrail and closed the hatch carefully
with a breathed, "You like 'em, Baby, you breathe 'em until I get back!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He sat in midair with one hand hooked around the rail and tried to
think of what to do next.

After a while he prowled the cargo-hold level, floating along the
circular corridor, knowing that it was not the safest thing to do, but
preferring almost anything to a return to the hold.

An hour passed, and Farradyne was growing bolder by the moment. He had
covered the entire lower level of his Lancaster and had stopped above
his former hiding place, speculating.

He decided, and went floating upward through the ship until he came
to the stateroom level. He floated around the corridor, noticing that
the little flags that indicated that the door was locked from the
inside were all down except one. One of his 'guests' did not trust
his fellow-travellers. He wondered how many rooms, and which ones,
contained the rest of the enemy gang.

He floated on upstairs to the salon and almost ruined his silent flight
by trying to put on the brakes. On the divan lay a man, restrained by
the hold-down safety-strap, sound asleep.

Farradyne floated over, and taking hold of the strap to keep himself
from flying free with the motion, he deepened the man's slumber with a
vicious chop of his hand.

He floated into the control room, where the silent and distant stars
watched. Some of them were moving down, while the rest stood as
immobile as he had always known them. He would have liked to stay and
watch the effects of traveling faster than light, for the sky directly
above was very strange in color and in constellation, but he had a job
to finish.

He took a roll of two inch adhesive tape from the medical supplies and
taped the unconscious man's wrists and ankles, and slapped on a length
that covered the mouth. Then he went down to his own quarters and
opened the door slowly.

A second man slept there; Farradyne slugged him and applied tape
effectively and quickly.

That made two.

       *       *       *       *       *

He considered the situation carefully. So long as his batting average
stayed at one thousand percent he was in fine shape. The ship ran
itself; there was nothing to watch; and so the crew did what all
spacemen do: sleep. If he could catch them one by one--

He opened Stateroom One. It was empty.

That put a different light on things. Maybe this was not a fully-loaded
transport. Maybe it was just like the average cargo-haul with only a
couple of passengers.

He opened Stateroom Two and found it empty.

That sort of proved it. He opened Stateroom Three and found a man
asleep in the bunk. He was stirring as Farradyne scanned the room,
and he moved just as Farradyne launched himself across the cabin.
Haste ruined his aim and his down-slashing hand clipped the enemy on
the skull instead of hitting him alongside the ear. The man grunted
and swung out blindly, hitting Farradyne and moving him up and away.
Farradyne caught the upright of the bunk and stayed his free flight,
levered himself around and swung again.

The enemy parried the blow and then let out a triple-tone roar.
Farradyne pulled himself down and around, then kicked out with both
feet, catching the enemy in the face and chest. The force drove the
enemy deep into the mattress, from which he rebounded to fold up over
the hold-down strap and flop up and down, limp, an inert mass caught
between two springs. The same force drove Farradyne toward the open
door.

His aim was still bad; his outsweeping hand caught the leading edge of
the door and he and it swung on the hinges until he came flat against
the wall behind the door. Then he fought his body around and came out
of the stateroom feet first.

He caught at the handrail and stabilized his flight, then took notice
of his surroundings.

A door down the hall opened and a man came sailing out. He caught
sight of Farradyne and launched himself down the hall at the spaceman.
Farradyne met him with a slash, which was parried by a block of the
man's forearm against Farradyne's wrist. It stopped the enemy's
flight, and tore Farradyne's hold loose.

Farradyne let the enemy peer down the barrel of his gun. "Hold it," he
snapped.

The enemy, about to kick himself forward, took a firm hold on the
handrail behind him and retracted his feet from against the wall.

"You can't get away with it, Farradyne."

Farradyne smiled grimly. "I can try, Brenner. So happy to meet you
again."




                                 XXIII


Warily he listened. There were no other sounds along the corridor but
the one he expected, and soon the little flag on the lock went in and
the door opened. Carolyn Niles came out in pajamas and coat, her eyes
blinking slightly. "What's the--" Then she gasped. "Charles!"

"Howdedo. Any more hiding in the dark, Carolyn?"

"How did you get here?"

"I walked," he said flatly. He turned to Brenner. "You stay there,
school-master. I'm scared to death and therefore a bit touchy."

Brenner shook his head, eyeing the gun. "Sure, you're scared. I'm
scared, too."

"Relax--but do it slowly. Now turn around and make it hand over hand
along toward the salon. You follow the gentleman," he said to Carolyn.

Farradyne followed them both, mentioning that if Brenner tried any
tricks, Carolyn might get in the way of the shot intended for him. They
went up the stairway, one, two, three, and floated into the salon,
Farradyne having a bit of a time of it because of his full gun-hand. He
hooked his legs around the guardrail and eyed them coldly.

"Carolyn, let's see how good a job you can do on Brenner's wrists
with a chunk of this tape." He tossed the roll at her and she went to
Brenner, who held his hands behind him while she ran tape around the
wrists.

"I'd be willing to bet that's a slipshod job," said Farradyne. "But it
will probably hold for a while. Carolyn, coast over here and sit in the
straight chair."

Farradyne taped her to the chair by her wrists and ankles, and took
a slight hitch in the hold-down strap. He added some security to
Brenner's bonds and taped the man's ankles to the legs of the divan.
Then he propped the still unconscious man up near Brenner and taped him
similarly.

Now he took time to go below and collect the third man from his cabin
and bring him up; the man struggled against the wide tape and glared at
Farradyne over the plaster on his lips. Farradyne hurled him backside
first at the divan and followed him, catching him on the rebound. He
taped the man as he had the others, and then took a small flight to the
bar, where he perched on top by hooking his feet around one of the bar
stools.

"Aren't we a good-looking bunch?" he chuckled. "Shall we sing?"

"Stop it, Farradyne," snapped Brenner.

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne's twisted smile faded.

"I'm telling who to do what, Brenner. We'll play this game according to
my rules for a while."

"You can't get away with it."

"Nuts. I should think you would feel a bit awkward, for a conqueror."

"I can stand it for a time. But the sooner you free us, the--"

Farradyne laughed, one loud humorless bark. "So I'm still your
prisoner?"

"In a way. You wouldn't want to die without telling what you know about
us. You'll do anything to stay alive."

"You damn well bet! And I'll do anything to learn a bit more about it,
too."

"You can't make me talk."

"Want to bet? I don't think I could squeeze anything out of you by
torture, Brenner, but I have a hunch you'll sing loud and long after
you watch me take Carolyn's fingernails off with long-nosed pliers,
and listen to her screaming."

Carolyn looked at Farradyne coldly. "Charles, I don't think you have
enough sadism to perform that operation on me."

Farradyne looked at her. He held enough dislike of what she stood for
to do almost anything; but she was still a woman and he knew that she
was right: he simply didn't have the requisite sadism. Even though it
would be a just retribution.

Carolyn sniffed cynically, and Farradyne realized that he had
mumbled the last few words of his thoughts. She repeated them: "Just
retribution, perhaps, Charles--but have you the guts?"

He looked down at her. "No, it seems I haven't. But I've someone with
me who might."

He took aim and sailed down the stairs. He soared around the stateroom
corridor and ran full-tilt into someone coming the opposite way. He
hurled the figure from him and recoiled, and when he caught himself
again, he had one hand braced against the handrail and the pistol aimed
at the middle of Norma's stomach. He let out his breath and relaxed his
gun hand.

She looked at the gun and her face went white with the realization of
how close it had been. She looked at him searchingly, as if seeking
company for her fright. She apparently found it, for her face relaxed
and she took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Then she fought the
hem of her skirt down again and blushed.

Farradyne chuckled shakily. "Go into Number Four and swipe a pair of
Carolyn Niles' pajamas," he said. "They don't float. Then come on up to
the salon."

He turned and headed back slowly, stalling until he heard her return to
the corridor.

       *       *       *       *       *

He went up first and helped her make the curve around the railing at
the top. Solicitously, Farradyne steered her to the divan and fastened
the seat-strap.

Then he faced Carolyn and the rest. "Speaking of retribution," he said
slowly, "I'd like you to meet a woman I know. Miss Norma Hannon. She's
a love-lotus addict, you know. Whatever she is and whatever she does
is basically your own damned fault." He said directly to Carolyn, "I
couldn't do it. But I think that Miss Hannon might enjoy a bit of an
emotional binge with the people who fed her the first hellflower and
caused the death of her brother."

Farradyne turned and sailed across the salon to land at Norma's side.
He reached out and removed the love lotus from Norma's hair, and
re-crossed the room to hurl it into the disposal chute.

"Just sit there quietly until the effects of that thing wear off," he
told her. "I'm going to make a tour of inspection."

Farradyne turned and dived down the stairway again. He did not know how
long it might take, especially after Norma had been literally sleeping
in a smothering roomful of the things for hours. Probably take long
enough for them all to get the whim-whams just thinking about it, he
concluded.

He conned every stateroom on his way down. He was reasonably certain
that the ruckus would have awakened them all, but he wanted to make
sure that no one of them was lying doggo until he could make his bid.
They were all empty. Farradyne went on down in the Lancaster, checking
the supply-rooms, the galley, the workshop, the other cargo lock, the
storage room. He looked into the inspection cubbies and wiring hatches
until he had covered every nook and cranny in the Lancaster that was
large enough to contain a human being.

The ship was clean.

He stopped once more to eye the four metal cases bolted to the floor.
He went up, then, all the way.

"Any talk?" he asked brightly as he soared through the salon.

"Farradyne, you can't do this!" rasped Brenner.

Farradyne ignored him. Norma was still sitting on the divan, in the
same position. But her face was losing its softness and her attention
was no longer diverted so easily. "I'm waiting," she told him as he
passed upward to the control room.

Somehow, Farradyne believed that she would not have very long to wait.




                                 XXIV


Farradyne again ignored the oddness of the sky to examine the small
auxiliary panel fastened to one edge of the main control panel. It
contained a small meter calibrated in arbitrary units of three colors.
The needle stood high, about three-quarter scale, in the middle of
the blue region. Below the meter was the toggle switch, and on either
side of the switch were flat buttons, blue to the right and red to the
left. Behind the panel was a metal box; emerging from the box a cable
no longer than a lead pencil snaked away into the maze of wiring behind
the main equipment.

He considered the thing carefully. Booby traps were unlikely, but
there were destruction-charges used to prevent the capture of secret
equipment.

The destruction triggers usually were protected switches, placed in
such a position and built in such a manner that when the crew wished to
destroy their secret devices, they had to do it deliberately.

So Farradyne eyed the small panel critically and decided that while
there must be some destruction-device included in such a highly secret
piece of gear, it was not on the front panel where it might be pressed
accidentally or in the heat of excitement. He was even certain that not
very much could happen if he tinkered with the switches, so long as he
was in space and a few light years from anything large and hard. It was
also extremely unlikely that any gear of this sort would be easy to
foul-up. The destruction of the gadget in space would leave the ship
and crew marooned in the void between the stars.

He took the cross-bar toggle in his hand and pulled. It resisted his
efforts, and so he tried pushing. It moved down in a wide arc and as
he moved the switch down, the pressure of the drive suddenly caught up
with the seat of his pants and Farradyne was sitting in his pilot's
chair instead of floating above it by a fraction of an inch. He thrust
the toggle all the way down and a full one-gravity of force came on.

Above his head the stars resumed their familiar appearance.

The needle on the meter stayed where it was, at three-quarter scale.

Farradyne chuckled aloud. _He had it now._ One button to start the
equipment for warm-up period; the toggle to control its functioning;
and the other button to cut the gear off when the flight was concluded.
It was as simple as that, and although Farradyne had sat in many a
spaceman's bar and heard arguments as to the possibilities of exotic
operation of alien equipment, he knew that mechanical and electrical
principles are universal and that their exploitation would most likely
lead toward universal simplification.

Then, being practical, Farradyne dropped the subject and began to think
about where he was, where he had come from, and where he was going. He
put his eye to the point-of-drive telescope and caught a small star on
the cross-hairs. This was undoubtedly Sol, considerably tinier than its
appearance from Pluto, but of the right color. A true stellar point, it
was, which meant that he must be light years from it.

He squinted through the point-of-departure periscope and cut the drive
so that the flare would not blind him. Behind was the constellation
of Lyra and on the cross-hairs was another tiny star of no particular
consequence.

He got out his Spaceman's Star Catalog and opened it to Lyra. Among the
listings were several semi-dwarfs of the F, G and K classifications and
one of them, about twenty-seven light years from Sol, was located in
the right position, so far as Farradyne could determine--

The sound of a whimper cut into his thoughts, and he remembered the
possibilities of the scene down in the salon. He snapped on the
intercom and listened, wondering whether he could actually sit there
and let Norma go to work on Carolyn. Man's inhumanity to man was a pale
and insignificant affair compared to the animal ferocity of a woman
about to settle up a long-standing account with another woman.

His curiosity got the better of him. He sauntered down the stairs.
Norma stood before the bound Carolyn, her eyes glassy and her
face impersonal. In one hand she held a small bottle of acid from
Farradyne's workshop and in the other hand she held a little pointed
glass-bristle brush. As Farradyne came down the stairs, Norma dipped
the brush in the acid and approached Carolyn, holding the brush as she
would a pencil.

Farradyne said, "Wait."

       *       *       *       *       *

Norma looked at him. "Don't stop me," she said. "I'm going to write
'Hellflower' across that alabaster forehead."

Farradyne shuddered. His imagination had stopped working at the point
of removing fingernails and applying cigarettes to the skin. Now it
leaped forward. A formerly flawless skin covered with scar-tissue
lettering of accusals, viciousness, and probably lewdness.

"Are you ready to talk?" Farradyne asked Carolyn.

"I'll talk. I'll talk because you'll never get a chance to use the
information."

"You talk, and I'll take my chances on that."

Norma frowned. "Please, Farradyne?"

"Maybe later," he said soothingly. "Go sit down and wait."

Norma turned and headed for the divan.

"Spill it," he said to Carolyn. "What the hell's going on, and why?"

"This is war," she said.

"Like hell it's war. This is backstabbing. But it'll be war as soon as
we can fight back."

"It is war," she repeated. "The process should not be unfamiliar to
you; you've done it yourselves time and again. First you weaken the
enemy by undermining his resources, by lowering his resistance, by
turning his efforts towards advancement against some stumbling block.
Then--"

"I presume that doping the women of a race with hellflowers is an
honorable practise?" sneered Farradyne.

"It is better than dropping a mercurite bomb. We got to interstellar
space first and met another people as racially jealous as we are: your
people. We could have made a landing openly, but if we had, the warfare
you're threatening would have happened long ago. And there would be
nothing left of either of our people but smouldering planets to mark
the meeting-place of two stellar peoples."

"You can say this, knowing that no Solan has the barest inkling of how
this doodad in the hold can permit us to travel faster than light?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Carolyn looked at him contemptuously. "You're an idealist, Charles,"
she said. "I'll tell you what would happen. You'd greet us with cheers
and invite us in--long enough to steal our warp-generator. You'd trade
us your medical science for our chemistry and your electronics for our
gravities, and then you'd meet us face to face to prove to yourselves
that even though you got a second-place start, you could move faster
and hit harder than we could. You'd carry your war to us, and we'd
carry our war to you, and there would be cause and effect, and attack
and retaliation, with each blow a bit more vicious until your people
would be planting mercurite at the same time we were. And then, as I
say, the next interstellar race to visit this region of the sky would
find the radioactive remains of two ex-cultures. I know, because both
our people come of the same stock."

"All right," he snapped. "So you've justified your actions to yourself."

"_Of course._ Everybody is self-justified."

"And you justify the doping of our race by calling it better than
meeting us face to face."

"Remember your own history. Even before the First Atomic War everybody
realized that warfare was a bankrupt measure, to be undertaken only
after all else failed. You conducted your conflicts under cover, by
boring from within, by undermining the national structure. Similarly,
when your people have been lowered in resistance, we shall move in
quietly and make of you an asset to our economy, instead of a ruined
structure that must be helped."

"Wonderful. However, I don't cotton to the idea of being an abject
supplicant to your superior kind."

There was a yelp from behind him and he whirled to see Norma Hannon
about to letter something on Brenner's forehead.

He raced across the floor and caught her hand just before the
acid-laden brush touched Brenner's skin. "Norma," he said quietly.
"Don't."

She looked up at him reproachfully. "You promised me--"

"Later."

"That's what you're always saying," she complained. "Then all you do is
talk a lot of guff with that female over there."

"Okay. I forgot." He turned to Brenner. "Next question: how do we
navigate that ka-dodie of yours?"

Brenner laughed harshly. "You know so much, why don't you go ahead and
try it?"

"Now, Farradyne?" pleaded Norma.

"Not yet. I'm going to try his suggestion." Farradyne inspected the
tapings and satisfied himself. Then he turned toward the stairway.

"Wait," said Brenner testily. "Take her with you, dammit. I don't want
my face lettered with words found in washrooms."

"Somehow it seems appropriate."

"All right. The toggle fades the generator on and off. The red button
stops the equipment. The green button is for start. Wait until the
meter reads in the upper block before using the toggle. The speed for
this particular equipment is approximately two light years per hour in
Solarian measurement. We're about six hours from Sol now. Go ahead and
run us close to Sol so we can finish this gambit."

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne took Norma by the hand and led her up the stairs. She
protested and hung back--but once in the control room, she crossed
briskly and turned the intercom so that sound from the salon would come
through clear and strong, but sound from the control room would not
go out. Then she turned from the panel and faced Farradyne with the
beginning of a soft smile on her face.

"That was the hardest job I've ever had," she breathed.

Visibly, she relaxed. An aliveness came around her eyes and her mouth
spread into a brief smile. She snapped her bottle of acid into one of
the many spring-holds in the control room. Then she walked over to the
co-pilot's seat and dropped into it. She rested, with her head tilted
back.

Farradyne watched with puzzlement. "Norma," he asked, "how long after a
sniff of love lotus does the effect last?"

"Seldom more than an hour. I have been free of it for quite some time."

"But you had a hell of a dose."

She took a deep breath. "I could feel it leaving," she said. "The
effects faded after you took the flower out of my hair, but instead of
fading away with a dulling of the senses, the urges I felt diminished
without leaving me emotionless. I think I'm cured of it."

Farradyne recoiled a bit.

"No, Charles, this is no trick. This is not an attempt to lead you on.
I'm cured, I think, honestly."

"But how?"

"One thing no one has tried is to place the addict in a veritable bath
of the things. Perhaps that did it--an overdose--Anyway, it's wonderful
to feel normal again." She sat up in the chair and leaned toward him.
She reached for his hand and drew him forward and kissed him on the
lips. For a moment they clung together, then she moved away from him
slowly. "It's all back again," she said quietly. "The quickened pulse
and the pleasant tingle. I'm a woman again, Charles. Let's go home so I
can enjoy it."

It was almost too good to be true--but it had to be.

Farradyne gave her hand a squeeze. "Done!" he said. His other hand
lifted the cross-bar toggle, and the pressure of the springed seats
threw them up against their hold-down straps.

Two light years an hour. Farradyne ran the Lancaster for exactly six
hours and then cut the superdrive. Together, they inspected the heavens
and found a brilliant yellow star on their quarter. Farradyne turned
the Lancaster to face it and raised the toggle slowly; Sol changed
color, racing toward the blue and the violet first, then turning a dull
red and raising through the spectrum again until it became violet once
more. It went through another spectrum-change and grew in size like
a toy balloon hitched to a high-pressure air line, until its flare
frightened the pilot. He shoved the toggle down and Sol winked back
into the familiar disc of blinding white, about the size as seen from
Mars.

Farradyne oriented himself, consulted the spaceman's ephemeris and
pointed at a large unwinking point. "Home," he said.

Two light years an hour. Farradyne went to the computer and made
some calculations. He returned, pointed the Lancaster at Terra and
flicked the toggle up and down, counting off a few seconds for drive.
Sol whiffled past, changing in color as its position changed in the
astrodome; and when Farradyne drove the toggle down, Terra was a
distinct disc in the sky above them.




                                  XXV


Farradyne said, "Norma, hike below and see that our visitors stay taped
to their chairs. I'm going to land this crate without interference."

Norma nodded and went down to the salon. "They're still penned," she
reported over the Intercom.

Farradyne said "Aye-firm," and then made his first ranging-radar
contact with Terra. He set his declaration drive accordingly and the
integrator-needle crept over to the center-scale zero, informing
Farradyne that zero separation from the surface of the spaceport would
result in zero velocity of the Lancaster.

Then Farradyne fired up the radio and called: "Washington Tower. This
is a Lancaster Eighty-One requesting landing instructions. Registry Six
Eight Three. Farradyne piloting."

"Tower to Six-Eight-Three. Take Beacon Nine at one twenty thousand,
Landing Area Five. Traffic is zero-zero, but eight, repeat, eight,
Spaceguard cutters are in formation at sixty thousand." The voice
changed in tone slightly. "Spaceguard, Code Watchung. Calling Watchung."

"Watchung to Tower, go ahead."

"Tower. Watchung, ware away from Beacon Nine. Lancaster Eighty-One
coming in. Give position and course."

"Watchung to Tower: position azimuth six-seven zero, altitude sixty
thousand, distance nine miles. Course twenty-seven North azimuth. Will
miss Beacon Nine by thirty-three miles. Recheck?"

"Recheck and aye-firm, Watchung. Tower to Six-Eight-Three: did you
follow that?"

"Aye-firm!" called Farradyne.

"Watchung to Six-Eight-Three: pilot identify yourself."

"Pilot Farradyne here, Watchung."

"Aye-firm. Watchung Five, assume command of Six, Seven, and Eight. Take
alert pattern at two hundred thousand feet and stand by, Watchung Two,
Three, and Four compute and take closing course on Six-Eight-Three and
convoy to Landing Area Five. Farradyne, prepare to accept convoy."

"Deny, Watchung. Request reason."

"Prepare to accept inspection, Six-Eight-Three."

Farradyne growled angrily and dropped the radio formalities. "Why?" he
snapped.

"You are suspected of hauling a cargo of love lotus. Prepare to stand
inspection upon landing."

From down in the salon came the sound of cynical laughter. Brenner
said, "We'll let your own people punish you, Farradyne. Hellblossom
running, resisting arrest, kidnaping, operating with a forged license,
a ship with a questionable registry!"

Farradyne knew what Brenner meant. Taped tight in his ship were
Carolyn Niles, daughter of one of Mercury's leading citizens, and a
schoolteacher named Hughes. There would be a lot of other witnesses
prepared to perjure him into three hundred years of hard labor on
Titan. He wondered how the enemy managed this; certainly they had not
been prepared to lose their captured spacecraft so quickly. Yet the
counter-preparations looked as though such an eventuality had been
expected.

"Six-Eight-Three, respond!"

Farradyne snapped his mike-switch and said, "I resent the accusation,
and demand an explanation!"

"There is no accusation, Farradyne. We have an anonymous tip-off. You
are not accused of illegal operations, only suspect. Will you permit
inspection?"

"No!" snapped Farradyne. "Deny!"

"Code Watchung: intercept Six-Eight-Three! Prepare to fire."

"Fire and be damned," said Farradyne in a growl. His hand reached for
the toggle and shoved it home for ten seconds. When he turned the
ultradrive off, they were far a-space and the radio was silent.

"Give it up, Charles," said Carolyn from below.

"Go to hell!"

Brenner said, "You might as well, Farradyne. No matter how you figure
it, you'll either be grabbed by your own people or get picked up by
ours. We can't lose."

       *       *       *       *       *

Going below, Farradyne faced them. "And what happens if I dump you out
of the spacelock and your cargo of hellflowers with you?"

"You could do that to Cahill," said Carolyn, "because Cahill was not
registered as a paying passenger. I am, and when the authorities find
me missing you'll be called to account."

"Just what do you suggest?" Farradyne asked.

"Surrender and turn this ship over to us. You will be detained as a
prisoner of war and imprisoned among your own kind."

"Doing what kind of prison labor? Growing hellflowers?"

"Not at all. That, we wouldn't consider ethical."

"It's a cockeyed code of ethics you jerks have," growled Farradyne. "I
suppose you want a gold medal for doping our women instead of dropping
mercurite bombs and killing them."

"Let's not discuss ethics now. Surrender, and you'll be placed on a
Terra-conformed planet, with every freedom among your own kind except
the right to space flight."

"No, thanks," said Farradyne dryly. "I had four years of slogging in a
fungus marsh. I'm disinclined to give up after one miss. It--"

"Charles!" cried Norma through the squawk-box. "Radar trace!"

Farradyne turned and raced up the stairs just in time to see the long
green line of the radar settling down to a solid signal-pip at the
extreme end. He flipped the switch that coupled the telescope to the
radar and looked through the eye-piece. At the extreme range of the
radar beam was a spacecraft, either the same starship that had chased
him before or its sister ship. It was closing in fast.

Farradyne dropped into his chair and snapped the belt. He turned the
Lancaster by ninety degrees and grasped the toggle on the ultradrive.
Ten seconds later he resumed normal flight for a few seconds and then,
at another angle, used the ultradrive again.

He paused long enough to take his space bearing, and then plunged the
ship down between the orbits of Jupiter and Saturn, far to the South of
the ecliptic.

"Norma," he asked quietly, "who is Howard Clevis' boss?"

"Howard reports to Solon Forester directly."

"Oh, fine," groaned Farradyne. "Getting to the Solon is no picnic. How
do we go about it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A flick of color caught his eye and he turned to look at the radar. The
line had wiggled slightly and as he watched, its extreme end formed
into a signal-pip. Farradyne looked through the telescope and saw the
starship again--or another one. Whether they had one with supervelocity
tracking methods, or several hundred covering the solar system like an
interception net, it made no difference. The enemy was on his trail.

Farradyne played with the high-space drive again and cut some more
didoes back and forth across space, ending up this time not too far
from Mercury.

From below there came a rapid conversation in multi-tones, like someone
dusting off the keys on a pipe organ played in mute.

Farradyne swore, and then he sat there looking at the big chronometer
on the wall, counting off the seconds. Seventy of them went under the
sweep hand before the radar trace hiked up into the same, familiar
extreme-range warning.

Deliberately, Farradyne turned his ship towards Terra and hit the
ultradrive. "They called me a hot-pants pilot," he gritted.

Yellow-green Terra raced up and up and up through the spectrum
and burst in size from an unwinking pinpoint of light to a
shockingly-large disc that zoomed towards them. They saw its roundness
come out of the sky in a myriad of colors until it filled the dome
above them. Norma screamed; but by the time her voice had stopped
echoing through the control room, Terra was past them by a good many
miles of clean miss, and Farradyne had cut the ultradrive. He grunted
unhappily because he was now as far from Terra on the other side as
he had been before he took the chance. This mad use of the enemy
ultradrive in ducking around the solar system was like trying to make a
fifty-ton clamshell digger split a cigarette paper. At two light years
per hour, their speed was enough to take them from Sol to Pluto in one
second flat. He could not control it finely enough to do more than zoom
off out of sight of the starship.

Farradyne shrugged, and patted Norma on the shoulder. "I doubt that my
aim is good enough to hit the thing," he said. He turned the Lancaster
end for end abruptly and tried a quick flick of the toggle. Once more
Terra leaped at them, a swirling kaleidoscope of color, looming into
monster size and then flicking past.

When they came out of it, Terra was behind them by a few million miles.
Farradyne thought for a moment. "Maybe we--" he reached out and pressed
the red button on the auxiliary panel--"are being tracked by the
generator doodad they put below."

"But what are we going to do now?"

"Hit for Terra!"




                                 XXVI


Farradyne set the drive for Terra and then sat there, tense and
waiting. The radar wiggled into its warning trace, almost dead ahead.

They moved to intercept him, but Farradyne raised the drive to four
gravities and plunged on. The starship grew, and behind it Terra grew.
The radio burst into sound and Farradyne grabbed the microphone and
said, "Come and get me, fellows!"

"Stop," came the demand, "or we fire!"

"I've been fired at by experts," said Farradyne. "Start a
shooting-match out here and you'll have all of Terra wondering why the
fireworks."

"Stop!"

Farradyne touched a lever. "Maybe you'd like to polish a few rivets?"

The Lancaster turned ever so slightly until the starship was directly
on the point-of-drive. His other hand touched the drive and the
acceleration increased a bit. Caustically, Farradyne said, "Go ahead
and shoot! You'll find your own living room full of by-products if you
do!"

He was right. The Lancaster was on collision course with the starship
and if the Lancaster was blasted at this moment, shards and fragments
of the spacecraft would spread like a shotgun charge. If the starship
escaped being hit with a rather uncomfortably large mass of jagged
metal it would be sheer luck.

"Veer off!" came the strident cry.

The starship moved aside. Farradyne's hands levered his handles with a
velvet touch and the starship of the enemy returned to the cross-hairs.

"Veer off!"

"I'm going to ram, goddam you!" roared Farradyne.

The starship flared at its tail and at the same time a torpedo-port
winked as a missile blasted-off. Farradyne gauged the missile and the
starship and kept his nose on the starship's lead. Gritting his teeth,
he watched the missile come at him; and at the last moment the missile
veered aside, obviously controlled. It was a war of nerves; the enemy
did not dare hit him at this moment and on this course, but they hoped
to scare him.

The starship loomed big in the astrodome and Farradyne aimed the
Lancaster amidships. The interstellar monster grew rapidly until the
individual plates could be seen; then with a silent, dark flicker that
was as shocking as a loud blast and a searing flare of light might have
been, the starship ceased to exist as an obstacle in front of them. The
enemy had resorted to the ultradrive. The sky was clear--

Except for the missile, seeking them and with no control to stop it.

It had curved in a vast circle behind them and was now closing in on a
curving course.

Dead ahead was Terra, looming huge; the tactic of the enemy was clear.
In order to escape the missile Farradyne would have to drive hard and
long, which would carry him far beyond Terra and into the hands of
another enemy ship on the other side of home. To turn and attempt a
landing would be to invite atomic death in the depths of space far
above the planet.

He chuckled, and Norma looked at him wonderingly.

"Get set for some terrific acceleration," he said. "Hunker down in the
seat!"

       *       *       *       *       *

His hands ran across the board. The Lancaster turned slightly and the
drive went up and up. The flare brightened and lengthened behind them,
aimed at the missile below.

The missile followed its homing gear and came speeding up the
reaction-flare. The Lancaster drive was a reaction motor, a rocket with
a reaction mass of water heated by the atomic pile to an energy that
cracked the water down to sheer gamma and particle radiation and tossed
it rearward into a condition where the word 'heat' has no meaning
unless there is some body able to absorb the ravening energy.

The missile absorbed the energy.

Its nose melted and its homing circuits mingled with the flare of the
Lancaster's drive; then there was a minute puff as the missile was
consumed before its atomics could be joined in fission.

Farradyne cut the drive and took a deep breath; but his relief didn't
last long. Terra was before him, a monstrous blue-green globe just to
one side--close--close--

Beyond, the enemy ship was waiting.

The thin scream of atmosphere cried at their ears and there came
a braking pressure that threw them against their seat straps. The
accelerometer went crazy, reaching for the peg-stop on the left.

The blood rushed to their heads and Farradyne fought the pressure that
tried to raise his arms.

Then the screaming stopped as the Lancaster passed beyond the
atmosphere into space again. Farradyne hit the drive hard again.

But if the enemy was expecting him to come past on a line-course, they
were wrong. The touch of the upper air, thin as it was, had deflected
the Lancaster's course into a long ellipse and hurled the ship far
to one side of the expected line of flight. The course wound out and
around and back and plunged the ship into the upper air again. Terra
rotated madly below and then dropped beneath the level of the edge of
the control room dome as the Lancaster speared out into space once
more. Again they went out and around and down into the upper air, and
this time they went around in a tight ellipse with the air screaming at
them all the way. Four times around Terra they went, and then Farradyne
turned the tail of the Lancaster straight down and started to drop like
a plummet.

He was kept busy checking the controls and the autopilot and the
computing radar altimeter as he aimed the Lancaster for the southern
edge of Lake Superior; they came down in a screaming fall like a
meteorite.

The flare parted the waters of the lake and sent up a billow of steam
for about a hundredth of a second. Then the autopilot cut the drive and
the violence ceased as the Lancaster sank into the deep cool waters, to
stop, to come rising buoyantly towards the surface again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne hit the switch that opened the scuttlebutt of the water
tanks and the lake waters rushed in, killing buoyancy.

The astrodome porpoised once, gently, and then the Lancaster sank very
slowly. Farradyne waited until the ship was resting tail down on the
bottom; then he turned it slightly to one side and opened the drive by
a bare fraction. Water churned below them and the ship moved loggily
sidewise, towards the shore. He spent an hour testing and trying the
depth along the shore until he found a place that was just deep enough
to let the Lancaster stand upright with its dome an inch or two below
the surface.

A small fish goggled hungrily at the shining metal.

Farradyne stretched and said, "We got this far anyway!"

Norma looked at him dizzily. "How?"

"My pappy used to tell me about this sort of come-in," he said. "Seems
as how he once knew a gent who had piloted one of the old chemical
rockets that used braking ellipses for landings. That was a heck of a
long time ago, before we had power to burn. Anyway, it wasn't expected,
because we succeeded."

"Now what?"

Farradyne tuned the radio to a local broadcast station, and waited,
relaxing in his seat, until the music stopped and the latest news
flashes came on. Then the announcer said, "The system-wide hunt for
Charles Farradyne, the notorious love-lotus operator, still goes on.
The search has been narrowed down to North America because of several
reports, some official and some unofficial, of activity a-space in this
region.

"Farradyne is also to be charged with complicity in the disappearance
of Howard Clevis, high undercover operative for the Sand Office. It
is believed in some circles that Farradyne may be much higher in the
love-lotus ring than a mere handler or distributor. Some officials have
indicated that Farradyne may be Mister Big, himself.

"An early interception and arrest is anticipated. Keep tuned to this
station for the latest news."

The music returned.




                                 XXVII


Brenner said, "Very neat. Glad you made it." His smile was serene,
and it made Farradyne want to push his face in. Brenner grinned at
Farradyne's expression. "I wouldn't like to die in space. Now that
we've landed it's going to be easier to pick you up."

"No doubt you have your henchmen neatly planted in many of the high
offices. But you can't cover them all."

"But how can you tell which is which?" laughed Brenner. "And if you
could, how could you prove it? If you should be stupid enough to try
to point out the number of people who are plotting your downfall, who
are trying to apprehend you--dead or alive--you'll sound like a howling
case of paranoia."

Carolyn stirred and groaned. Farradyne looked at her as she opened her
eyes. "Can't take it, eh? But how you can dish it out!"

"Where are we?" groaned Carolyn.

"Wouldn't tell you on a bet," he snapped. "You might be telepathic as
well as multi-tonal. I--"

Farradyne's eye caught a flicker of motion and he whirled. The other
two men were struggling against the tape that bound their wrists and
ankles; they glared at him over the white strip of tape beneath their
noses, and made three-toned honking noises.

"Shut up!" roared Farradyne.

They stopped struggling.

Brenner said, "Just what do you hope to do?"

"I've got my ideas." Farradyne lit a cigarette and relaxed. "We'll wait
until dusk to be sure," he said.

Hourly, the radio went on telling how Farradyne was being cornered.
Radar nets and radio-contact squadrons were scouring the North American
continent with special attention being given to the North Middle-West.
Another report said, "Charles Farradyne, sought for many charges
involving love-lotus operations, is implicated in the disappearance of
Carolyn Niles, according to her family. Her father indicated that Miss
Niles did not return home after a date with the criminal. Be careful!
This criminal is cornered and desperate. He will not hesitate to shoot,
and he may even bomb a village or neighborhood if his freedom is
threatened!"

Brenner and Carolyn did not even jeer at him. The situation was
obvious; Farradyne and his white flag would be shot to bits before he
could take three steps, let alone make explanations.

By now it was dark outside. The stars were bright above the dome, and
danced with the motion of the water. To one side a wavy trail passed
across the sky, and high above was the flicker of a space patrol
crossing the sky at fifty or sixty miles. The radio was alive with
reports, and the police bands were busy with their myriad of reports
and directions. Farradyne pricked off their calls on a map, with a
drawing pencil. Ground and air patrols were combing a vast area. For
a very brief interval, Farradyne could hear a distant network in
operation which indicated that the same sort of search was under way in
other districts across the face of the continent.

He inspected his map and hoped he had them all. Then, very cautiously,
he lifted the nose of the Lancaster above the waterline and eyed his
radar. Pips showed here and there, a couple within a few miles of him.
He waited until they turned away, waited until they went beyond the
radar horizon.

"Now," said Farradyne for all of them to hear. "I can't do this job
fair, so I'll do it foul!"

Using just enough power to waft the Lancaster into the air, Farradyne
placed the ship in a gully a few hundred yards from a state highway.
The trees covered it from direct observation at night and the flat
hills and ravines would cover it from radar detection.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was almost two o'clock in the morning when a lonely moving van came
along the highway. The brakes screeched as the driver caught sight of
a crumpled body lying by the road. Redness smeared along a length of
white thigh, uncovered by a ripped skirt. More redness dribbled wetly
from a corner of Norma's mouth. The driver piled out of one door and
his helper from the other. They ran to kneel by the woman's side.

Then they smelled the ketchup and stood up, raising their hands
promptly in anticipation of the command.

"That's not blood spilled," said the driver loudly. "Let's keep it that
way, whoever you are."

The driver's helper said, "This is a bum job, friend. We're carting
second-hand furniture, not gold."

"I don't want your load," said Farradyne, stepping into the glare of
the headlights while Norma got up and dusted herself off. "I want your
truck."

They looked at him and he saw recognition in their faces. Probably
every newscast had his picture presented in full color.

"What's the next move, Farradyne?" asked the driver in a surly tone.
"Do we take the high jump?"

"No, I just want your truck. Driver, what's your name?"

"Morgan. This is Roberts."

"Morgan, you drive the truck down into that ravine, and Roberts will
play hostage. Get it?"

"Behave, Al," pleaded Roberts.

"I will, but I think we'll get bumped anyway."

Morgan got into the truck and drove it slowly from the road, down
through the trees, until they came to the Lancaster. Both men goggled
at the ship parked there, and Farradyne, who had walked alongside with
Roberts and Norma, let them look at it for a moment. Then he waved his
gun. "Unload it," he said sharply.

It took them an hour to move the load from the truck to the ground, and
Farradyne spent that hour in nervous watching. He could not trust them
not to make a break, nor could he hope to explain. When the van was
emptied, he faced Roberts against it and said, "Norma, tape Morgan's
hands behind him; then Roberts'. Then we unload our cargo."

       *       *       *       *       *

The two truckmen glowered as the conveyor belt came out of the cargo
lock and the white hellflower blossoms tumbled along it to drop into
the back of the van. Farradyne left them sitting there on the ground
after the loading was finished. He and Norma went into the salon and he
faced Brenner. "Better take this quietly," he said.

The radio made him pause:

"Ladies and gentlemen, the late news: the system-wide search for
Charles Farradyne is hurrying to a close. Indications are now that the
infamous love-lotus chief is hiding in the Lake Superior Region, and
all forces are being hurried to that area to create the most leakproof
dragnet in the history of man's man-hunts. A special session of the
planning committee of the Solar Anti-Narcotic Department has been
called to deal with the problem. Any information pertaining to Charles
Farradyne may be delivered by picking up your telephone and calling
Sand, One-thousand.

"This information is being disseminated freely. We know that Farradyne
is listening to this broadcast, and the Sandmen have instructed all
radio stations and networks to deliver the following announcement:

"To Charles Farradyne: A reward of fifty thousand dollars has been
offered for your capture dead or alive. You cannot escape. The forces
that are blanketing the Lake Superior Area are being augmented hourly
by additional men and _matériel_ brought in from all corners of the
solar system. You will be arrested and brought to trial for your life.
However, the reward of fifty thousand dollars will be turned over to
you to be used in your own defense if you surrender at once."

Farradyne grunted. "Very tasty dish," he said sourly. "Very competent
people you have, boys and girl. Someone really thought that one out
most thoroughly. Can you picture me walking up to a patrol and saying,
'Fellers, I've come to give myself up so I can have the reward.' And
then I'd go in, sure enough--on a shutter, and the patrol would divide
the loot. To hell with you, we'll play it my way. Norma, go ahead."

Norma slipped off one high-heeled shoe and advanced upon Brenner. The
enemy agent tried to shy away, but Farradyne went over and caught his
head between the palms of the hands and held Brenner fixed. Norma swung
the slipper and crashed the heel against Brenner's jaw.

Brenner slumped, and the heelprint on his jaw oozed a dribble of blood
mixed with mud.

Farradyne slung Brenner over his shoulder and carried the inert man
out. He propped Brenner in the helper's seat and handed Norma into the
driver's seat. He stood on the running-board and watched Norma strip
the tape from Brenner's wrists and replace it with fresh tape from the
truck's own first-aid kit.

"The ankles too," he warned her. "You've got to cover up the
tape-burns."

Norma taped Brenner's ankles. Then she looked up at Farradyne. "I'm
shaky."

"I know," he said. "But you've got to hold yourself together until this
gambit is played out."

She smiled wanly. "That's what's holding me together," she told him.
"Charles, wish me luck?"

He leaned into the truck window and put his lips to hers. It was a
very pleasant kiss, and while they both knew that this was their first
kiss of real affection and mutual confidence, it lacked a compelling
passion. But for the present it was satisfying, and complete.

Then Farradyne swung down from the truck with a wave of his hand and
Norma put the big engine in gear with a grind that set his teeth on
edge.

The truck turned onto the highway and roared off into the night.

Morgan said, "What do we do now?"

"We wait in the spacer," Farradyne replied.




                                XXVIII


They went up the landing ramp and into the salon; the truckmen stopped
short as they saw Carolyn and the other pair.

"Quite a collection you have here," said Morgan. "Is this Carolyn
Niles?"

"I am," replied Carolyn. "Aren't you going to do something about it?"

Morgan showed her his taped wrists. "Not in this garland."

Farradyne smiled and left them. He went aloft and returned the
Lancaster to the lake. "Now," he said, "we'll wait it out."

Morgan shook his head. "With the net they've set up you'll never see
your girl or your truck or your hellflowers again."

"Maybe I want it that way."

"Oh? Putting the finger on the bird you carted out of here?"

"Precisely."

"And how about the dame?"

Farradyne laughed. "In this cockeyed society of ours," he said, "even a
streetwalker can rip her dress open, point at a man, and holler 'help!'
and half of the community will start yelling 'Lynch the sonofabitch'
without looking too hard at either of them. She'll get by, but it may
go hard with him."

Morgan and Roberts were scornful, angry, and ready at any instant to
do whatever they could to overcome him. Only the tape kept them from
trying. But on Carolyn's face was an expression of mingled defeat and
admiration. She knew as well as Farradyne that Brenner was in for a
rough time.

Farradyne lit a cigarette and mixed himself a highball. Carolyn groaned
and tried to flex the wrists that were secured to the arms of the
chair. Morgan growled at the sight of her helplessness and asked if
Farradyne had harmed her.

Her face took on a cynical smile. "I happen to be immune to love
lotus," she said.

"Scorpions," said Farradyne, "are immune to their own poison."

       *       *       *       *       *

Once again the radio music faded: "And here is the latest news on
Charles Farradyne: within the past half hour the area of search has
been narrowed down to a tiny ten-mile circle, by the interception of
a moving van laden with love lotus. The arrest was made by a state
highway patrol with the aid of a woman who gave her name as Norma
Hannon.

"Miss Hannon was in a state of hysterical collapse after days of
imprisonment at the hands of the love-lotus ring, brutal physical
assault, and threats of being forced into love-lotus addiction. The
driver of the truck was carrying a license made out to Walter Morgan,
but information from the Bureau of Identification indicates that Morgan
is also known as Lewis Hughes, a prominent teacher of Ancient History
in a Des Moines school. During the struggle Miss Hannon succeeded in
rendering the criminal unconscious by hitting him on the jaw with her
slipper, after which she taped--"

Farradyne chuckled. "You see?"

Morgan grunted: "My license!"

Roberts cried: "Our truck!"

Carolyn said, "And what's it got you, Charles?"

"--the first-aid kit," went on the announcer. "Morgan or Hughes is
being held on a John Doe warrant, charged with love-lotus possession,
abduction, illegal restraint, assault and battery, and driving an
interstate truck with an improper license.

"Miss Hannon collapsed after driving the truck to within sight of the
dragnet set out for Farradyne. Her statement will be taken by the Sand
Office as soon as she has recovered. The point of hospitalization has
been kept secret by the Sandmen, who are now confident of an early
arrest. Indications are that Hughes or Morgan (also known occasionally
as Carl Brenner) has turned state's evidence and is willing to inform
on his racket-boss Farradyne."

"Hah!" said Carolyn nastily.

"Did you a lot of good, didn't it, Farradyne?" snarled Morgan.

Farradyne ignored Morgan and spoke to Carolyn. "Unless Norma is being
tended by someone of your gang, this is the end, baby."

She eyed him superciliously. "How long will they believe her after they
discover she's a love-lotus addict herself?"

"She isn't. She's cured, remember?"

Carolyn laughed. "Everybody knows there is no cure."

"And how about our pal Brenner-Hughes-Morgan?"

"You leave me out of this!" snapped Morgan.

"Sorry," said Farradyne with a smile. "I didn't mean to include you,
Walter."

Carolyn said in a confident voice, "Brenner is one of us. He is just as
willing to die for our cause as--"

A searchlight swept across the lake and its light, refracted downward
from the waves, caught Farradyne's eye. He left them in the salon
and raced up the stairs to the control room. Through the astrodome,
distorted by the water, Farradyne could see the headlamps of the big
truck. The searchbeam crossed the water again and flashed ever so
briefly on the slender rod of the antenna. The truck paused in its
course, the beam swept the woody shore and stopped; then the truck
turned and rumbled off through the trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

The radio music died again. "Ladies and Gentlemen, we are about to
bring you a very unusual program. John Bundy, our special events
newscaster, has joined the forces scouring the Lake Superior region
for Charles Farradyne. Inasmuch as an early arrest is expected, and
possibly a running gun battle, John Bundy will now take the air with an
on-the-spot account. Mr. Bundy:

"Hello; this is John Bundy. Our convoy of trucks, men, guns, radar, and
radio control resembles a war convoy. We have everything from trench
knives to one-fifty-five rifles aboard as we scour the Northwoods for
the criminal who has been so successful up to this time. We arrived
at a point along Lake Superior which must be close to the point of
Farradyne's operations, according to the information given us by the
arrested truck driver. Sand and mud from Miss Hannon's shoes correspond
to the district.

"Flying above us now are eight squadron bombers carrying heavy
depth-charges, since Farradyne is believed to be hiding his spacecraft
in the waters of Lake Superior. A submarine from the Great Lakes
Geodetic Survey has been hastily equipped with some ranging sonar
from the War Museum at Chicago and is seeking Farradyne's submerged
spacecraft. It--"

There came a distant crash in the radio and seconds afterwards the
Lancaster resounded with the thunder of an underwater explosion.

"One of the depth-charge patterns has been dropped," explained Bundy
excitedly. "Perhaps this is--no, it is not. Sorry. The submarine has
covered the explosion area and reported only an underwater mountain
peak instead of a hidden spacecraft. Nothing will be left unsearched--"

A thin, pure, ping, of a pitch, so high it was at the upper limit
of Farradyne's hearing, came and lasted for less than a tenth of a
second. It came again in about twenty seconds, and repeated itself in
twenty seconds, and again and again and again. The interval dropped;
the volume of the ping increased noticeably until the singing tinkle,
something like tapping a silver table knife on a fine glass goblet, was
coming fast.

Ping! Ping! Ping!

Farradyne looked above and saw the sky-trails of jet bombers, making
ghostly patterns in the night sky. There came another flash of the
searchbeam against the antenna. Ping! _Get through, wherever you are!_

Along the shoreline something blossomed with an orange flash. Seconds
later there was an eruption fifty yards from the Lancaster that shook
the big ship hard enough to make the plates groan. A trickle of lake
water oozed through the sealing of the astrodome.

The pinging came louder.

Underwater bursts racketed and flashed and hurled their gouts of force
against the Lancaster, coming closer.

The radio was rambling on and on as John Bundy gave the world a
blow-by-blow description of the action.

"--to those people who have stood out against the expenditure of monies
for arms and training, I say they should witness this attack upon an
enemy of society. They are evacuating the area, now. Farradyne is
trapped and unless he surrenders within the next half hour, atomic
weapons will be used. And then we will never learn the thoughts of the
mind that has directed the decay of the moral fiber of our people. We
will never know why a man, given the opportunities that many finer men
have been denied, chose as his life's work--"

Carolyn laughed hysterically and Farradyne went below for a look.

Morgan and Roberts were waiting on either side of the door; they fell
upon him and pinned him to the deck and held him there, and Carolyn
stood above him gloatingly.

The Lancaster shook with the throb of depth-charges.




                                 XXIX


Farradyne struggled against his captors. He'd been as blind a fool as
he always had been, to let them sit there together. "Let me up!" he
stormed. "Let me up so we can escape--"

"Shut the hell up!"

Farradyne struggled.

There was a blasting roar that stunned them all; it shook the Lancaster
viciously. The trickle-sound of water through the astrodome was
covered by the ear-splitting thunder, but when the tumult died the
trickle had become a full stream that came running down the control
room stairway in a cataract.

There came another blast, closer still. The lights flickered as the
shock of the ship snapped the relays back and forth. Carolyn cried,
"Hurry!"

The enemy pilot, lame and cramped from hours of being taped, struggled
up the stairs. A moment later, deep in the ship, relays and circuit
breakers clicked home.

Farradyne roared, "You fools! Stop that guy aloft! Why do you think I
sent Norma Ha--"

Morgan cuffed him backhanded and drove his head hard against the deck.
His senses reeled and the sheer physical shock of the next burst made
his head roll from side to side.

An upsurge of pressure told Farradyne that the enemy pilot had started
to take off from the lake bottom. Flashes of bursting explosive
winked at the ports; then the blasts came less shockingly loud as the
Lancaster hiked into the open air.

Farradyne fought himself awake. "Let him escape and we--"

Carolyn's shrill laugh drowned his weak voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

The radio went on, as accursedly unanswerable as always:

"Farradyne's spacecraft has been trapped and fired upon, and now has
been flushed from cover. The criminal is hoping to flee through the
most thorough sky-cover that has ever been assembled. He cannot hope
to win through, ladies and gentlemen. I wish we had video here in the
early morning light, so that you could see this vivid spectacle of the
eternal battle between the forces of good and evil!

"But we'll all be there when Farradyne goes down to the death in flame
he so richly deserves. Above him now are the jet bombers and above them
are squadron upon squadron of Terran Space Guard ships, and above them
lie the Interplanetary Space Guard to fire the final coup de grace if
Farradyne can run this gauntlet of righteous wrath that far.

"His flare trail is dimmed by the pinpoints of flashing death that
seek him out. On every side of me are ships spewing torpedoes, guided
missiles with target-seeking radar in their sleek noses, that will end
this reign of terror once they find their mark. It--"

The radio clicked audibly and a forceful voice came on:

"Attention! Attention all listeners! Attention Spacecraft Lancaster
and Charles Farradyne! This is the office of The Secretary of Solar
Defense, Undersecretary Marshall White speaking. All persons, whether
official or unofficial, whether citizen or military, are hereby charged
with the safety of Charles Farradyne and the Lancaster model Eighty
One in Farradyne's possession. This is a 'Cease Fire' order. All
persons are hereby ordered to offer Charles Farradyne whatever he may
request in the nature of manpower, machinery, supplies, protection,
and safe-conduct; so that he may deliver his spacecraft to the Terran
Arsenal at Terra Haute, Indiana."

Morgan scowled at Farradyne.

Carolyn cried, "Friends in the high places!"

The undersecretary's voice went on: "Within the hour, Miss Norma
Hannon, onetime associate of Howard Clevis, undercover agent attached
to this office on free duty, has presented irrevocable evidence to
show that the love-lotus operations have been part and parcel of
an unsuspected plot against humanity by denizens of an extra-solar
culture. Since Farradyne's spacecraft contains the only known device
enabling matter to exceed the velocity of light, its delivery to the
Arsenal is deemed Top Priority. All persons are charged--"

Farradyne shrugged himself out of the grip of the truckmen. "Get the
hell aloft and grab that bastard running the ship!" he snarled at them.

       *       *       *       *       *

The other enemy rushed forward. Roberts caught a hard fist on the jaw
and reeled back. Farradyne chopped in a wide swing with the edge of
his hand and sent the enemy back against the little bar in the salon.
Morgan looked stunned, but he turned and started for the stairway at a
dead run.

"So I couldn't get through?" asked Farradyne bitterly. "So I'm licked?"

Carolyn looked at him, but said nothing. The stillness outside was
so marked that her silence was almost painful after the noise of the
bombardment.

Then she shrugged. "You poor fool! You've just bought your own doom."

"So," said Farradyne, "by digging out the rats that gnaw at our roots
we've toppled our tree?"

Carolyn nodded soberly. "We'd hoped to win you by stealth, but we're
prepared. The starships are loaded with mercurite right now."

"I hate to start quoting Patrick Henry," snapped Farradyne. "So I'll
just suggest that you think over the reason why they want me at the
Arsenal."

She looked at him.

"We've always been handy with a screwdriver," he said. "Our race. And
we know we couldn't copy this drive before the mercurite starts to
fall. But there is enough time to load up my Lancaster and take it
out." He roared with harsh laughter. "You didn't mind dying if you
could take me with you. Well, maybe Solans won't mind dying if we can
rid the universe of a bunch of lice, either."

"And what alternative do you offer?" she whispered, white-faced.

"Complete surrender," he snarled. "Complete surrender!" And then he
recalled the history he had been forced to learn as a schoolboy:
history, a subject of dry dates and dry events, a factual symposium
of war and war and war--of conflict and hatred and death. Then had
come the realization of Peace, which started to turn the course of
history from attack and reprisal, and war and defeat, and victor and
vanquished. A just peace, started in the Twentieth Century, which
ended oppression and subjection.

Farradyne looked at Carolyn with a cynical smile. "We demand
unconditional surrender," he said bitterly. "Then we move in and number
off your people. With a careful tally of our own losses, we choose
a similar number from a fish-bowl. So many men to be cold-bloodedly
murdered. So many virgins to be ravished. So many wives left without
husbands, and so many husbands left without wives. Children to
such-and-such a number left homeless, and a certain quantity made to
stand in the street so that automobiles can run them down." His voice
rose to a roar. "Damn it, woman, do you think we're vultures? You've
pushed us around for fifty years, but now you know damned well that we
have what it takes to kick back." His voice fell back to normal, even
lower, as he said, "It's me asking you, now. What'll you have?"

She looked at him. "What am I?" she asked, just as quietly as he. "A
species of louse to be pinched out, or an adversary vanquished? An
un-victorious warrior?"

"You're what you want to be."

Carolyn turned and went up the stairs to the control room where Morgan
was standing behind the pilot with a strong hammerlock closed tight.
Farradyne was close behind her.

"I'll be the defeated warrior," she said. She uttered three words
in her native sing-song and the man in the pilot's chair stopped
struggling. She went to the radio and picked up the microphone and
started to broadcast.

It was a long series of staccato sounds that were sometimes musical and
just as often discordant, as the tones rose and fell seemingly without
pattern. Then she turned to face Farradyne.

"You win. Again you win," she told him. "Somehow you always do, and
maybe--maybe--I'm glad it's over!"

Tears spilled down her cheeks as she stumbled away from him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne looked down at the face, as pale and wan as the hospital
sheets. Her eyes opened slowly and saw him. Her smile was genuine, but
far from robust. Farradyne squeezed her hand gently and said, "Relax,
Norma. It's all over."

"You're sure?"

"As sure as any man can be. There's been a batch of meetings and
conferences, and lots and lots of gold braid and striped trousers. I
got strictly left behind when the top-level boys moved in. So now all
you have to do is get well."

Her eyes were large and hurt-animal luminous. "I know. It's not the
excitement. It's the cure. I had to hang on to my nervous system too
long after being freed, they tell me. It's left me washed-out--but I'll
be all right, Charles."

"Good. You've got to be."

"You talk," she said. "I'm--tell me what happened?"

"First thing, they sat on the guys that were in the Lancaster with
Carolyn and among them they discovered a space engineer. They held
them as hostages against my return, and several of us went to Lyra
with Carolyn as interpreter. We made 'em cough up Clevis and about
thirty-five other boys who'd been too smart for them to let free. It's
all been concluded nicely. I have my license back for honest, and just
between you and me, I have enough contracts already to make a mint of
moola out of the interstellar business. I can buy more spacers soon,
and then I can let someone else go a-spacing. Maybe I'd like to retire,
honey--"

She looked up at him and smiled. "Is that a proposal of marriage?"

He nodded.

Norma pulled him down and gave him her lips. Then as he stood up again,
he saw that her eyes were filled with tears.

"Norma--?" he said plaintively.

"Charles, it wouldn't work."

"But--"

Norma smiled gently through her tears. "Not that, Charles," she said.
"You were thinking about Frank, and the years of hate. Since then I've
come to know you and admire you, but I can't really love you. I--"

He saw something glow momentarily in her eyes and he waited patiently.

"Howard is a strong man," she said simply. "He used Frank, and then he
used me, and finally he used you. And hellflowers took me away from
Howard, and then they took Howard. And you brought me back and now
you've brought Howard back to me, and--"

Farradyne interrupted her: "Be happy, baby!" He bent down and kissed
her. Then he turned on his heel and left the room. He paused long
enough in the corridor to shake the vacuum out of his feelings and then
went down to the waiting room.

"Howard? She's awake and feeling fit, even though weak. A bit of the
sight and touch of you would work wonders. She wants you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Clevis nodded and started for the door. Farradyne caught him by the arm
and turned him around. "Look," he said with a crookedly amused grin, "I
want to be second-best man."

"Any damned day in the week, Charley," said Howard Clevis.

Farradyne sat down in a chair and waited. He lit a cigarette and blew
smoke at his toes. Somehow he felt disappointed in himself; he should
have been despondent instead of content.

And then the plume of smoke curled around a pair of slender ankles and
Farradyne realized what his unfinished business was.

The waiting room resounded gently with a delicate musical chord,
operatic in quality like a trio of angel, hoyden, and devil singing
a bacchanal. He smiled and looked up at her. "Any damned day in the
week," he promised, getting to his feet.

Against his face, softly, Carolyn laughed. "But you don't even know my
name!"

"I'll find out," he promised. "Later."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HELLFLOWER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
