The Project Gutenberg eBook of The thirteenth juror, by Leslie
Waltham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The thirteenth juror

Author: Leslie Waltham

Release Date: October 23, 2022 [eBook #69213]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE THIRTEENTH JUROR ***





The 13TH JUROR

By LESLIE WALTHAM

[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
Startling Stories Summer 1955.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Excerpt taken from "THE HISTORY OF TRIAL PROCEDURE, 2175 TO 2543, A.D."
written by Prof. A. I. Schule, S.E.D.:

"Even then, in the beginning of the twenty-third century, crime per
se, itself had ceased to exist. The lower emotions had already been
bred out of the people. Envy, hate, avarice and kindred responses were
virtually non-existent. Every citizen had a crude type of emotiograph
attached to his person, which was examined periodically by the Eye. If
any deviation from the norm was observed, the accused was called up for
questioning.

"In the absence of actual crime, any emotion which might have
precipitated crime was considered unlawful, and men were tried for
too much anger, or too little pity. The only purpose of a trial was
to ascertain whether sufficient provocation could be established to
warrant a given reaction. If the cause, or the incident, justified the
emotional response, the defendant was exculpated.

"Trial procedure was extremely simple. The use of the witness was
obsolete. Above the defendant's box was a concentric screen upon which
his thoughts could be projected. The Questioner would channel the
thoughts of the accused into whatever date periods were pertinent, and
in that way, the defendant reviewed his own case.

"It is into this category that the celebrated, and very controversial,
John Hastings case falls. You all remember that, of course, as the
'cause cêlêbre' of the year 2375 A.D."

No. Amer. Sec., Book Two, p. 675.

       *       *       *       *       *

One night they watched a column of flame lift a silver speck into the
sky. And one night, much later, they heard a voice call into space,
saying, "Come back, John Hastings, come back.

"Our inspection has shown serious deviations in your emotiograph. You
will turn your rocket and rechart for Earth, John Hastings. For trial,
John Hastings."

And they came to the trial. Out of the ripe, wet hills, down from the
blistering dome over the city, up through the shafts of the gritty
Substructure. They came and stood in lines, wiping the August sweat
from their eyes, littering the levels with orange peels as they ate.
Women, with babies strapped to their shoulders, and suppers left
unradiated on the cooker. Men, with lead-shielded faces, and tools
laid aside in the middle of a movement. But they came, and stood and
jostled one another, milling and gossiping:

"Gonna be some trial!"

"... might even resort to electrocution...."

"Naw, that's dark time methods."

"Oh yeah?"

Oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah....

But they felt good, the people, for it wasn't their trial. The words
could come easy and undammed, for it was John Hastings who was on
trial. They could look at him all they wanted to, and talk.

And then, suddenly, they could look at me too. Because I was called as
the thirteenth juror on the John Hastings trial.

       *       *       *       *       *

I walked into it after a night that held no sleep. And looked at
it. The yawning amphitheatre where humanity poured. And saw it. The
thirteen chairs raised high in the center. And heard it. The crowd's
susurrus gentling under insistent reminders from a bodiless Questioner.

I glanced at the faces in the other twelve boxes, recognizing some
of them. Angus Vortler, the psychosurgeon. William Bax, head of
Intergalactic, a bleak, wintery man who doodled constantly. Dollar
signs, probably. Fred Kitson, of the horny palms, chief mechanic on the
_Darkness_. All men who, because they had once reached out and touched
hands with John Hastings, were now called to judge him. Several of them
nodded to me as I took my place.

Wait.

They brought him in. I remembered the first time I had ever seen
him, in the classroom. Eager and tall ... tall and eager. Lord, what
changed him? Something had taken the straightness from his shoulders,
the sureness from his stride. There were furrows on his face where the
tears had already been.

He stood silently in the box where they had put him. A box just big
enough for his bulky body, and maybe a little of the misery he carried
with him.

A voice spoke.

"This, John Hastings, is your trial. You stand before this Court of
Truth-Probity, accused of registering the emotion of hate. A hatred
so violent, that had we permitted you to carry out your anticipated
actions, it would have resulted in the murder of one Mary Hastings,
your wife. Do you understand the charge?"

"I do." He didn't know what to do with his hands.

"How do you plead?"

"I plead not guilty."

"On what ground?" asked the voice.

The defendant raised his head. "On the ground that I had good and
sufficient reason to justify my emotion."

"The reactographs on your wife, Mary Hastings, have been thoroughly
examined, and it has been determined that she performed no act which in
any way deviated from the norm. Had any disturbances taken place within
Mary Hastings during the week of last March ninth to sixteenth, it
would have shown up plainly in a flux on the charts. Your contention is
impossible."

The man in the box bit his lip. "Nevertheless, I contend it. My wife
gave me sufficient reason. She--she was unfaithful to me."

Only silence for a full minute.

"It is impossible."

"_But_ true!" Hastings shouted.

The multitude leaned forward, a misted inquiry rustling its skirts.

"Very well," the voice almost sighed. "Will you submit, Captain
Hastings, to the use of the concentric screen? We wish to know more of
the circumstances surrounding several pertinent dates."

His face was the color of picked bones. "Yes, I will submit."

Two men advanced carrying a mesh complexity between them. Placing it
over the defendant's head they allowed it to fall to his shoulders.

"Are you ready, John Hastings?"

"Yes." It seemed he was already gone from the place.

"Then concentrate. Remember. Permit your mind to have freedom." The
voice washed over him in waves. "It is a day in December ... the
fourteenth.... Take my words and let them carry you...."

The screen above the defendant's head began to cloud and draw in.

"It is cold outside ... the snow is falling. There is a warm room. A
fire is burning...."

The mists opalesced and formed a nucleus.

"There is a pool of light on the desk, unexpected flowers in a bowl,
the odor of duck, roasted brown...."

Something was struggling for existence in the screen.

"There is a brown-haired woman--"

And the image was born....

       *       *       *       *       *

She bent over a card. "Candlelight, best service for two, white wine,
celebration atmosphere," she wrote and put it into the dining table
selector. Somewhere an orchestra started playing Debussy.

"John," she called. "Almost ready."

A card shot back at her from the mirror as she passed. "Your nose is
shiny," it read. She powdered quickly, taming wisps of hair as an
afterthought.

"Any further comments?" she wanted to know, and held out her hand. A
second card appeared. "I can't whistle."

Her laughter brimmed over, laced in delight. "John, dinner's ready."

She called into three rooms, empty rooms. Crossing to the terrace, she
opened a door on the night. Snowflakes rode in on an icy draft.

"Well?"

"John! What are you doing out there? I can't even see you."

"That seems to be one of your habits recently."

She drew him inside, and leaned against the door, closing. "Is it going
to be like that tonight?"

"Maybe." His face was steeped in cold.

"Please. Not the day before you go."

The white crystals on his hair melted into drops, and a sudden warmth
strained all harshness from his voice. "No, you're right, Mary. Not the
day before I go."

Pushing him toward the fire, Mary took his cloak. "Didn't you notice?"

"What?"

"The table, silly. It's 'Happy Homecoming' tonight!"

"Leavestaking, you mean."

"No, homecoming. It's not December. It's August. You've just opened
the front door and said, 'Mary, I'm home!' And all the time in between
hasn't been. It never will be."

He smiled for the first time.

"Now that's better."

The woman handed John Hastings a goblet, plump with yellow liquid. "To
August, dear," she said, and raised her glass. "To the moment your foot
touches Earth again. And to the wine ... warm and golden, like our life
together."

"Let's eat," he said. "Let's not ask questions." He faltered in a lack
of direction.

"Wait a minute."

"For what?"

"For the questions you can't ask." The gaiety was gone. It was real
now. "I think it's time we swept out the corners."

John nodded, his face slack.

"You've been strange lately."

"Oh that!" he shrugged. "Let's say it's the getting ready ... the heart
plunge just before you jump into space."

"No." It was definite. "It's more than that. You've been a rocket man
all your life. You don't get nervous any more."

His fingers twisted the glass. Something else twisted his voice. "There
are things in it that might make a man nervous, Mary. Black winds.
Burning worlds. Holes in space waiting for him. You think it might be
that, Mary?"

"No."

"But this is Alpha Centauri. This is faster-than-light." He bowed.
"This is when baby-God Hastings tests his brain child ... when the
electron lightscope goes to bat. You think it might be that, Mary?"

"Don't make nasty fun."

       *       *       *       *       *

Her husband regarded her a long, serious moment. "No. You're right
again." Leaning in to her, he spoke softly. "Did you know, Mary, that
it isn't the big things that make a man nervous any more? Only the
little things--"

"Say it!" she insisted. "Get it out. You'll feel better."

He hadn't moved. "Just the very little things. A supper unradiated. An
empty wrap hanger. An unfilled chair. Emptiness where there should be
something."

"Where has there been emptiness?" Mary was surprised.

"Between us."

"Oh darling ... that just isn't so."

"Isn't it?" He took her hands. "Cards on the table, Mary. Right?"

"Right!"

"You've been going to meetings for the last month."

"It's my turn on the committee."

"You've been out late quite a bit."

"I can't leave till they check me out...."

"There have been other people there."

She pulled her hands away and escaped to the other side of the room.
"Lots of them."

"But there was _one_ face in particular."

"Oh." There was a finality in it. "Who told you?"

"Does that matter?" His hand waved it aside. "Why didn't you tell me
Charles Lathrop was on the committee with you?"

"Because I knew how you'd feel." Instantly, she was at his side. "Oh
darling, don't you suppose I know what you think? You've never accepted
the fact that when I married you, my feeling for him was over and done."

"Is that true?"

"Yes, yes, yes! Can't you understand? What I felt for him four or five
years ago was that young thing everyone goes through."

"Young things grow. Great oaks...."

"Not this one. When you came, it was over. Is over."

He shook his head, and passed his hand over his face. "God knows I want
to believe that. You're my wife, Mary. I love every bit of you. But
Lathrop keeps bobbing up."

The fire crackled like dry leaves, rouging the unhappy walls. "There
are more questions?" she wanted to know.

"Yes."

"Ask them."

"Did you know he was going to be on the committee?"

"Of course not."

"Forgive me, Mary, but--but have you spent any extra time with him?"

"Oh John! We _talk_ at the meetings--'Hello--it's a roaring day--have
you heard the latest about Ganymede?'"

"That's all?"

"I swear."

"You don't feel anything?"

"Nothing. Absolutely nothing. He's a friend, a brother, a comfortable
dog."

The stiffness went out of Hastings. He sank back breathing hard, as
if he had been running too fast. "Mary, you don't know how good that
hears. You just don't know!"

"Oh my darling!" She held his head in her arms, her mouth close to his
ear. "Has it been this, all these months?"

The man nodded, laughing a little. "I just couldn't take the thought
that maybe--"

"Hush, hush! Don't even say it any more. Drink the wine and remember
what I said ... 'To its warm glow, like our home together.'"

His hand reached out, and trembling slightly, the fingers grasped, and
fumbled, and clutched at air. The glass shattered prettily, spilling
its golden life on the unalterable stone throat of the hearth.

And they stood there, hands untouching. Watching the glistening
fragments trap the last warm glow of the fire.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Enough, enough," a voice said. "You will rechannel your thoughts,
Captain Hastings. There is another day in time."

The screen misted, and the veils swirled.

"March eleventh ... on a ship ... a glazed splinter in blackness...."

The curtains quivered.

"Men gather tight against the void ... a clarinet wails ... there is
the smell of sweat...."

Kitson and Holmes were doing a dance. They had their breechskins rolled
over their knees, and four grapefruit tied to their fronts.

"Take it off ... take it off ... _take it off_!" The men rode a ground
swell of tinny music. Rhythm stamped out in the pattern of magnetic
boots fought with the sucking sound of beer cans. The air curled with
smoke.

Above their heads a hatch opened, and the Captain's legs appeared,
descending ladderwise. Abruptly, the melee subsided into leftover
clarinet tones.

"Mr. Kitson."

Kitson brought himself to attention, his grapefruit swinging. "Sir?"

"I've been informed there was news from home." The men looked at one
another.

"Only the broadcast from the Sector, sir. Nothing unusual."

"You took it down on the tapes?"

"Yes, sir."

"I should like to hear it." From one corner a reluctant shuffling
replaced the lately dead downbeats. The reproducer scratched badly.

"... at a banquet given for members of the committee. Prominent among
the guests was Mrs. Mary A. Hastings, wife of Captain John Hastings who
is making history in his FTL flight to Alpha Centauri. Captain Hastings
will test his invention, the electron-lightscope, from our neighboring
sun. It is reliably reported that the lightscope will revolutionize
astral observation, in that it will replace the telescope, and will
bring distant galaxies to within a few hundred feet of the earth.

"Mrs. Hastings, smartly gowned, was seated next to Co-ordinator Charles
Lathrop, who had--"

Someone jostled into the machine. The groove was lost.

Hastings spoke slowly. "I'd like to hear the rest of it."

Kitson was carefully unrolling his breechskins.

"I'd like to hear the rest of it, I said."

"Yes, sir," someone murmured.

"... was seated next to Charles Lathrop, who had escorted her to the
banquet, in the absence of the Captain. They danced frequently to the
strains of the Deimos Orchestra which was rocketed here for the pro--"

"That's enough," said Hastings, staring whitely.

The mechanic took two steps toward him. "Is something wrong, sir? You
look ill."

"Not at all, Mr. Kitson, not at all." His eyes snapped back to the man
in front of him, astraddle a newborn idea. "I was merely considering
Peeping Toms, Mr. Kitson."

"Beg pardon, Sir?"

"Peeping Toms. Never heard of them, have you?"

"No, sir. I don't think any of us have."

"What a pity. A most fascinating subject. Found in a twentieth century
history of the minor vices."

"Yes, sir."

"You display no curiosity, Mr. Kitson." His eyebrows raised. "In this,
you differ significantly from our Peeping Tom. _He_ wanted to know
a great many things, and he settled the whole matter with a pair of
binoculars." His voice sounded like scraped stone. "Yes indeed--_a pair
of binoculars_."

"I'm afraid I wasn't subjected to that facet of knowledge
indoctrination, sir." Kitson shrugged imperceptibly. When the captain
got like this--his shoulders spoke for him.

Hastings had caught the movement, however. "You find my words
uninstructive?"

"No, sir--I mean--"

"Very well." Something was growing big in the man. "Since you view your
deficiencies so lightly, you may report for punishment duty in the
morning."

"But, sir! I only said--"

"That will be all, Mr. Kitson." Hastings climbed the ladder, an ear
splitting silence hurrying him upward. His face appeared through
the hatch. A face withdrawn behind vacant eyes, ready to crumble.
"Remember, Kitson, I'll see you topside tomorrow. You will endeavor to
compensate for this most regrettable omission in your education, while
I--I will contemplate the advantages of twentieth century sins."

The hatch closed.

Everyone was suddenly very busy. Holmes picked up empty beer containers
and threw them into the deatomizer. A big sandy man laced and unlaced
the binding-pad on his bunk. Kitson sat down and stared vacantly.

After three or four minutes he said something.

"The sonovagun," he said. "The poor, poor, sonovagun."

       *       *       *       *       *

Impersonal words broke into the dream. "We have seen. It is
sufficient." The screen flickered and grew dim. "Can you stand further
probing, Captain? May we proceed?"

"Yes."

"There is yet one more time. March fifteenth."

"I remember."

"Then relax ... drift. There are two men. They hang above a yellow
sun ... space sleeps at their feet...."

An image formed and wavered and formed again.

"Their words are whispered ... they speak softly in the presence of
immensity...."

It crystallized....

"I'm asking as Vortler, your friend. Not Vortler, the psychosurgeon."

Side by side, they sat in the tattered light of the observation hull.
Centauri lay less than one day ahead. It dangled like a full, blush
peach, their silhouette its only bruised spot. Rockets hummed.

"There's no use asking any more questions Angus. The time for questions
is past. This is exams."

"That's what I mean, John. Remarks like that. You've gotten to be a man
who talks to himself."

Hastings sat without moving a muscle. "What did the men tell you?"

"Nothing actually." The other made a nasty sound. "No, that's true. I
didn't need them. I've seen it for myself this entire trip."

"And how do you diagnose it, Doctor?" A whisky bottle gleamed in the
light of the creamy sun.

"Just like that, he wants it. In two or three words. Where I need
books, where Freud took volumes, he wants it in two or three words."

"And the doctor doesn't have them," John said. Angus shook his head.
"But I do." He poured from the bottle. "She's seeing Charles."

Vortler snorted. "You're mistaken."

"No, I'm not. I've thought about her a lot these last three months, and
I think I know her now." He leaned his head back and shut his eyes.
"She's an August woman, Angus. An August woman. One night a warm breeze
comes through the door and sweeps a girl into your arms. You say
things, and she says things, and you both end up saying 'I do!' Then
she wakes up one morning to find she _doesn't_ any more. And another
door will open, another breeze carry her off."

"Mary's not like that."

"I didn't think so in the beginning."

"You surprise me, John. I thought you had more faith."

"Not any more. With me, it's what I can touch or smell or hear or see.
Nothing more."

"Then there's never any proof for you. You can't watch her every
minute."

John raised himself unsteadily, and stitched his finger into the air.
"That, my dear Doctor, is where you are wrong." He stood and groped his
way into the light of the cabin. Angus followed, trying to see his face.

"There is something more to this, John. Let's stop the riddles and say
what we mean."

The captain spun in sharp, stifled anger. "Shall I tell you, Angus?
Shall I let you in on my secret?" The anger detonated. "All right, damn
it! You came here for it. I'll give it to you! You know my lightscope?
Well, it works. It works fine!"

"What has this--?"

"Do you know what Johnny-boy has been doing with the blasted thing?" he
cried, "I've been using it to play inquirer. I've been using it to spy
on my wife."

The doctor's jaw dropped. "You have _what_?"

"That's right. Night after night, I've come back here. I've set up the
god-dammed thing--and I've scanned."

"This is incredible!"

"Three nights ago I found New York. Two nights ago, I co-ordinated
to the Hudson River. Last night I got as far as the third level.
Tonight--" his arms swept a circle--"East Lynne."

Vortler's hand smashed down. "It's got to stop! There's no reason for
this. I won't permit it."

"What can you do? It's my lightscope--my ship. My orders supersede
yours."

Vortler closed the space between them, his fists knobbed white. John
laughed. "Don't overdo it, Angus. I'm not worth it." The sound died to
a chuckle, "Besides, remember your emotiograph. Somebody will spank."

The doctor's hands opened slowly, a finger at a time.

"Tell me, Angus. Can you honestly blame me? I suspect my wife. I'm
trying to find out."

"But you're wrong!"

"It _could_ be. The thing is possible." He leaned toward the
psychosurgeon. "You think about it and tell me. It's _possible_?"

Vortler looked defeated.

"Yes."

"And that's that."

Angus started for the barway. "I don't know what started this thing
off, John. Perhaps if a man loves his wife a little too much, a thing
like this can happen. Maybe that's why they've watched our charts so
carefully."

Hastings was already talking to himself. "If I can just prove it one
way or the other. If I can just know she's--alone."

The white clad figure paused. "Think it over, John. Change your mind. I
don't like any part of it."

"Angus," John said softly. "I don't like it either. I don't want the
sight of Mary on that lens! To leave what print? A dream smashed? A
dishonor? Who knows?"

The doctor shook his head. "Look out the viewplate, John. What do you
see? Planet systems, galaxies, eons. What is one tiny less-than-a-mite
in all of that? What does it mean to you? The mind of the Almighty--or
a few cents worth of bone, and hair, and tissue? Ask yourself, John.
What do you see?"

He closed the barway behind him.

John followed and threw the pressure lock. Going to a sleek instrument,
his hands inquired softly along its lines. Cold as space. Sure. Doubt
proof. He swept the litter from his desk, and set the instrument in
its center. Levers spun, mirrors sent out chips of light, adjusters
adjusted.

Then, pausing, he moved to the viewplate and stood looking out a long
time. His hands mangled themselves constantly behind his back. A star
twinkled--one star in particular--as if through the prism of a cold
tear.

But he went back to the instrument, and bent to it slowly. And as he
gripped the desk, his knuckles erupted, pale as washed gravestones....

_And the graph lines shivered and glowed hot, and the hate came pouring
out of the shining needle between the stars, and somewhere a voice
called into space...._

       *       *       *       *       *

"Come back, John Hastings, come back," the Questioner said. "You may
return to the present."

Throbbing, the screen died as a stirring exhalation came from the
crowd. Someone asked for more air. A baby cried, and was lulled to
sleep.

"We have seen the pictures, Captain Hastings, and we accept them. The
facts were presented as they happened. It is unfortunate that we can
show no evidence of what reached John Hastings' eye as he looked into
the electron-lightscope. Mechanical tabulations cannot be transmitted
to our screen, since its envisioning powers are limited to the sensory
memory patterns of the brain. We must therefore go to the defendant
himself for further evidence."

They had removed the heavy mesh, but the captain's head remained bowed.

"Do you swear, John Hastings, that by the power of the God whom we know
to be, and by the strength of your own mind, you will tell us what you
saw in that instrument?"

"I do so swear."

"You may proceed."

He drew himself together. "I found her at her mother's house. Even
though it's vacant now, she liked to go back there occasionally when I
was away."

The twelve other jurors were leaning forward in their boxes. I could
feel my body itching from the strain.

"You located her at her mother's house, at 4AH54 on the Third Level,
Eighty-first Sector, west of the Hudson?"

"I did."

"Continue."

"She was sitting on the lawn in front of the house, talking to a man.
His back was toward me."

"You could not see his face?"

"Not then."

"Go on."

"They talked for a while. Then he moved to her on the grass. She smiled
and they put their arms around one another. He kissed her."

"What happened then?"

"He lifted her to her feet, and I saw it was Charles Lathrop. They went
to the door, and she opened it." He found it hard to get the words past
his lips.

"Please proceed."

"When she got inside, she turned around and smiled. It looked as if
she was laughing at me. Then she reached out and touched his arm.
She--she--"

"Please speak louder. She what?"

"She took him inside and shut the door."

Heaped silence greeted the words. Men turned quietly and gazed at their
wives, their eyes asking a question for the bewildered, the undecided.

"John Hastings, we have checked thoroughly. Your wife did spend the
night of the fifteenth in the vacant house of which you speak. She
spent the night, however, alone. Her graphs show no disturbances, no
emotional exhilaration. You are perpetrating an untruth."

"I'm not. I saw it! I saw it as plainly as I can see the box in which I
am standing now."

"You could not have seen it."

"Before my God, I did! I saw every detail. The yellow pannier she wore.
The blue hydrangea bush on the lawn. That broken aneroid beside the
door. Every detail." His voice crescendoed.

"It is impossible."

       *       *       *       *       *

He raised his fists in the air. "Say it's impossible if you like.
Repeat it a thousand times! But I saw her do it just the same!! I _saw_
it!"

Something inside me had pulled tight. Thoughts of the classroom flooded
into my mind. Long forgotten formulae, theories ... somewhere! The
voice droned on, charging the jurors:

"--having reviewed the evidence--"

I kept groping toward a page in a book. Somewhere there was a piece
that would fit in. "The majority ballot rules." It was going too fast
for me. They were calling for the vote.

"Juror Number One, please stand and tell the court; how do you find?"

With great deliberation, he turned his back on the defendant in the box.

"Juror Number One designates guilt. Juror Number Two, how do you find?"

Vortler was second. He stood and gazed at John Hastings for a long
moment. Then he raised his arms toward the defendant, palms upward.

"Juror Number Two designates innocence."

I went back to the classroom again and again. There was a thing waiting
there for me, but it had been so long ago.

The count was going fast....

"Juror Number Six, how do you find?" Bax. I knew his vote before he
cast it. He turned his back.

Where did it stand now? Four guilty, two innocent!

My heart began to pound. It felt as if I were standing on the edge of a
deep water. Where was it, that I groped after? I tried to shut myself
in and think.

The semi-circle was almost completed. The voice had reached the juror
on my left. Six men stood with their backs to John Hastings. Five stood
with their arms outstretched, "Juror Number Twelve, how do you find?"

I asked for help then. I asked the Lord to turn the pages. And I asked
Him to help Kitson too. Kitson raised his arms high. The score was even.

It waited until then to come. The piece ... the little piece, falling
on my brain from that half-forgotten book.

"Juror Number Thirteen, how do--?"

"Mr. Questioner," I cried. "I would like to interpose."

"It is incorrect procedure to interrupt the vote--"

"Yes, yes, I know." My voice shook. "But there is something I just
remembered. Something pertinent to what John Hastings saw."

"Can it prove anything further one way or the other?"

"I think so."

An unseen conference. "Very well. Dispensation granted. What is your
information?"

I took a deep breath. "John Hastings viewed his wife on Earth from one
of the planets of Alpha Centauri."

"That is correct."

My tongue was dry; my hands wet.

"Alpha Centauri is four years, four months distant, measuring in light
years. Therefore, in his travel, John Hastings lost three of those
months, but when he turned his instrument backward, he was looking at
light images which had started from the Earth long before he ever left
it. He was looking at--"

"_At ... what happened four years ago...._" John Hastings had finished
the sentence for me. He was looking at something as if it were the
first sunrise he had ever known.

Speculation brought the amphitheatre to its feet. For the only time
during the trial, the mob found its voice. Uncertainty, relief and
surprise mingled, ebbed and flowed.

The voice called for attention. "Quiet, please, quiet. The information
is correct," and the storm was over.

"Since the jury is thus far hung, we will leave the decision to the
last, thirteenth talisman. We would like your vote, Juror Thirteen. How
do you find?"

John looked at me. It was the first time since they had brought him in.

And I stretched my arms out toward him....

Who can say whether I was right or wrong? It is too delicate a thing to
come out all white or all black. But I think that in order for a man to
hate a woman so very much, it is also necessary for him to have loved
her very much, too.

And sometimes, I wake up, shaking, in the night. I am thinking of what
might have happened if I hadn't remembered that old discarded pannier,
or the way Mother transplanted the blue hydrangea bush before she died,
or how Dad swore when she made him throw that aneroid away. If I hadn't
remembered those things, I would never have seen the look on John's
face as he walked into my outstretched arms and said: "Is it time for
us to go home now, Mary? Is it?"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE THIRTEENTH JUROR ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
