The Project Gutenberg eBook of Hop O' My Thumb, by William Morrison

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Hop O' My Thumb

Author: William Morrison

Release Date: October 26, 2022 [eBook #69237]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOP O' MY THUMB ***





                            HOP O' MY THUMB

                          By WILLIAM MORRISON

                  _No name in human speech was black
                enough for the man who was surrendering
                  Earth to the aliens ... but Everson
                  knew that the only way to keep his
               world from slavery was to link it to the
               invaders--with a cosmic ball and chain!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Super Science Stories May 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


George Everson descended hastily from the air liner, and the flying
steps of a street escalator carried him up into the Star Building, but
not before the crowd surging behind the fence a hundred yards away had
caught sight of him. How they recognized him in the growing dusk he
didn't know. His gray hair and mustache, the sensitive lines of his
face were unobtrusive, anonymous--but recognize him they did. Probably
hate had sharpened their vision, for the chorus of yells that overtook
him was fierce. It was clear enough that they didn't like traitors.

He smiled wearily, knowing, without pausing to make sure, that his
hand-picked guards were keeping them in check, and dropped wearily into
a convenient desk chair. As it headed for his office, he switched on
the visor, and his secretary's anxious face met his eyes. "We've been
expecting you, Mr. Everson."

"Any messages?"

"A great many of them, sir."

"What do they say about the surrender?" he asked.

"Most of them are protests, sir. Official resignations--"

"The resignees have been replaced, according to plan?"

"Naturally, Mr. Everson."

"And they are proceeding to carry out the surrender, as ordered?"

"Well, not quite. A few said they couldn't stomach it, Mr. Everson.
They resigned too."

"See that they are replaced with names selected from List C. The
surrender must go through."

"Yes, Mr. Everson."

His secretary--herself a replacement of the man who had been with him
for ten years--seemed to wait for him to go on, but he only nodded
curtly and switched off. There were other people to see and talk to,
but suddenly he felt it impossible to face them, to stare into their
eyes. He let the chair carry him silently, and once in his office, he
turned on the door lock to insure privacy. Then he stared out through
the transparent wall at the spectacle the heavens offered.

Off the right, not far above the horizon, hung the Hop planet-fortress,
from which he had just come. A bit smaller than the moon in apparent
diameter, it was actually larger than Jupiter, and had several times
that planet's mass.

From an anti-grav chamber, he had seen only one tiny corner of its
vast surface, but that single vision had been enough to convince him
that he had been correct. The Hops, in their countless numbers, were
unconquerable, and the human race, despite all its weapons, had no
choice but to surrender unconditionally.

The Hop Supreme Three had observed all the customary formalities. They
had signed the agreement for humane treatment of the surrendering race,
and given their most solemn promises to live up to the agreement in
every detail; although from what he had seen of them, Everson knew that
their idea of what was humane differed from his. He knew also that they
signed agreements merely to break them, as they had broken the one on
Neptune, and that when they broke this one the human race might very
well be exterminated. But, as he had been telling himself time and
again these last five days, he had no choice.

He had, by dint of superhuman effort, managed to persuade the majority
of his Council of that, and only two members had resigned. Public
opposition had been more violent and outspoken, with here and there
some firebrand calling for a war of defense to the death. But he had
pointed out as coolly as he could, in one System-wide speech after
another, that the war would be to their death. Resistance was one
thing, suicide another. The opposition had been disorganized, if not
overcome, and the surrender was now going on. His present task was to
speed it up as much as he could, and for that he would have to see and
talk to the numerous individuals whose calls were waiting.

But the effort of pressing a button which would bring their faces
opposite his own was more than he could manage. And then, to his
relief, he found an excuse for putting off the painful task. A bell
tinkled musically, and his secretary's voice said softly, "Mr. Arthur
Everson, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

His son entered and stood regarding him silently. Arthur's hair was
black, and with his young, clean-shaven face he lacked the aspect of
official dignity which the gray mustache gave his father. But he had
the same sensitive features, and under his eyes there were hollows
sunk deep by the tension and sleeplessness of the past week. He said
finally, "Have a nice trip, dad?"

"Not nice. Interesting."

"Something like my life now. Did you know that I'm afraid to go out
into the streets?"

"You have your guards."

"I don't mean that. I don't dare to look people in the eye."

"You'll get over it."

"I'm afraid not," said Arthur. "I'll never get over being the son of a
traitor. At first, when I heard of the plans for surrender, I thought
they were intended as a maneuver, to throw the Hops off their guard. I
never believed that you could intend them seriously."

"The Hops aren't to be thrown off their guard so easily. Don't you know
anything about them?"

"I know a great deal. I've seen several of your secret reports."

Everson frowned. "How did you get at those?"

"Never mind that. I wanted to know if a military defense was possible.
On the basis of those reports, I think it was. But you didn't have the
courage to undertake it."

"It isn't a question of courage. In the first place, we'd have been
slightly out-numbered."

"That wouldn't have mattered. There's a human population of six billion
on Earth, four billion on the other planets. The Hops were estimated to
number a hundred billion in all--"

"That is inaccurate," said his father, with that weariness which never
seemed to leave him in these days. "That was the first, very wild
estimate. We've corrected it since. The Hops number ten trillion. And
they regard most of their number as expendable."

"They can't be so many."

"They can. They are. Which reports did you see, Arthur?"

"The entire first series. A one to A seven."

"Then since you know that much, perhaps I'd better fill you in with
some more recently obtained information. To begin with, their name
is officially _Maletes_, which can be translated roughly as _The Big
Men_. The designation may seem strange to you. But it fits much better
than that stupidly patronizing 'Hop O' My Thumb', which some bright
journalist called the first one he saw, and which has since become
their usual name among us. There's nothing elfin or pixielike about
them, and on their own planet, compared to the other animal life,
they're really big.

"Moreover, they're heavy. The adults average no more than ten inches
high, but they run to about forty pounds. They're as strong as human
beings, not to speak of being quicker and more active. Pit a wildcat
against an unarmed man, and what chance do you think the man has?
Well, a Hop is more dangerous than a wildcat, even without taking into
consideration his superior intelligence."

"You're exaggerating, dad."

"No. I saw an exhibition on their planet. They put several Hop fighters
against their own native animals, as well as against several specimens
they had captured on outer planets. In every case but one the Hop
came out the victor. The sole exception was a Jovian strom, a kind of
lizard, and that managed a draw not so much because it was twice the
Hop's size as because it's the fastest-moving creature in the System."

"But we wouldn't be fighting without weapons."

"They'd have the advantage there too. Their weapons are better than
ours. In nuclear physics and biological warfare, they're ahead of us.
Not too far ahead, I'll admit. Give us a hundred years--possibly even
fifty--and we'd be up to them. But we haven't those fifty years, and
there's no way of stalling them that long."

"How about psychological weapons?"

"No chance. We couldn't get close enough to make a beginning. They're
aware of the danger, and they've taken precautions against it."

"They'd have to come to us. They'd have to attack--"

"Good Lord, Arthur, don't you see that if they did, they'd have a still
greater advantage? The moment they close in on us, and nuclear weapons
are out, we don't stand a chance. As individuals they're too small to
make good targets, and too tenacious to be easily killed even if they
are hit."

"And they have _no_ weaknesses?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The bell tinkled again, and the secretary's voice said, "I'm sorry, Mr.
Everson, but there's a report that requires your attention. With regard
to the surrender on Venus--"

"Go ahead."

He listened, and at the end, said simply, "Have McReady take
Mauvernon's place. The plans are ready for him. Tell him to carry them
through as they stand." He turned to face his son again.

"I asked if they had no weaknesses, dad."

"Several. But none that we can take advantage of at the moment. Don't
think our decision to surrender was an easy one, Arthur. During the
entire period of negotiation, we've had our spies out. We've managed,
with difficulty, to learn a few things about them.

"The Hops have come out of another galaxy. For a great many centuries
they've been able to move their entire planet, to attach it as a
temporary satellite to some star, and to release it again, without
expending too much energy, when conditions became unfavorable for a
longer stay.

"Wherever they have come across a planet suitable for Hop habitation,
they've left sizable colonies. But they've never run across anything as
good as their original home.

"They were originally about three feet high. They've been deliberately
bred to diminish their size, so that more of them might be supported
at a given standard of nutrition. But overpopulation has always been a
problem nonetheless, and has driven them on continually to look for new
planets. That's why they're so interested in our system."

"And that," said Arthur, "is also why, once we've handed over
everything we have, they'll exterminate us, and proceed to colonize as
if they had never signed an agreement."

"Possibly."

"You say that very calmly, dad. As if the extinction of the race meant
nothing to you."

"Because we have no choice. However, I was going to tell you about
their weaknesses. These derive from their lack of height. As the
Hops shrank in size from generation to generation, they became
shorter-lived. At present, they live on an average only five of our
years, of which at most three can be considered years of maturity, with
full adult powers.

"They might have done something about it originally by changing the
direction of their own evolution. But the shorter their lives, the less
pressing the problem of overpopulation. And at a time when they were
engaged in continual wars, they preferred to have replacements made as
quickly as possible--which meant a shorter period of infancy, and again
a shorter total life.

"Their ability to mature quickly also made for greater vigor as
soldiers, and involved no lengthy old age during which the injured
veterans had to be taken care of. Later on, when the process had gone
further than they liked, they tried to reverse it, and couldn't. It
was biologically difficult, and politically impossible. It would have
intensified all the problems of overpopulation, and started a civil
war. They're stuck with their five-year lives.

"The consequences have been tremendous. During the three years of
adulthood it is no longer possible to master any reasonably broad
and complicated field of knowledge, let alone advance it. Despite
their application of what had previously been learned in psychology,
and their attempt to substitute machine calculation for brainwork as
much as possible, they are no longer able to train any large body
of research scientists. Instead of developing, their science has
deteriorated. Entire branches they had formerly mastered have now
been relegated to the museums and libraries. They don't have time for
philosophy or logic, or other such luxuries. All their science is, one
way or another, military science. They hang desperately onto that."

"And this deterioration is continuing?"

"Steadily. It would take us a hundred years to reach their present
attainments in military nucleonics and biologics. But they're going
backward as rapidly as we move forward. That's why I told you before
that fifty years might be enough."

"And we don't have the fifty years."

"Not even a reasonable fraction of it. That's why we can't take
advantage of the weaknesses we've discovered. Remember that they're
physically more vigorous than we are, and intellectually just as alert.
They can see through any tricks we try. They lack merely sufficient
time for each individual to accumulate a sizable and coherent body of
knowledge which has been tested in practice."

"There must be some way--"

"When you think of it, let me know," said the older man, suddenly curt.
He stood up, as if the recital of the hopeless story had renewed his
energy. "At present, I have to see to it that the surrender is carried
out."

"I still think that you're merely trying to rationalize an act of
treason." Arthur's voice was choked, and tears filled his eyes. "Do you
ever stop to think of the place that men like Arnold and Quisling hold
in human history? When I think that your name will join theirs, that it
will be even more infamous than theirs, I feel like killing myself."

The older Everson laughed, rather harshly. "If I'm right, I'm no
traitor. If you're right, there will be no human race, and no human
history to record my name. Don't be such a child, Arthur, and don't try
to make history's decisions for it. Now get out, and let me work."

       *       *       *       *       *

For a time after his son left, Everson worked steadily. The surrender
wasn't going as smoothly as he would have liked. Even those who had
accepted the numerous vacant posts had no heart in the work, and
whether through carelessness or through deliberate sabotage, many of
the minor points of the agreement with the Hops were in danger of
being violated. If Everson could help it, there were going to be no
violations that would give the Hops an excuse to use military force. He
checked over the details of what was being done in the asteroid belt,
and found, as he had suspected would happen, that the largest asteroid
base of all had been left out of the list to be turned over to the Hops.

He spoke personally to the governor of the Asteroid Group. "Clayton?
Ever hear of Base AZ?"

"Of course, Mr. Everson."

"So have the Hops. They're very sensitive, and I'd hate to upset them
by pretending that it doesn't exist. Turn it over to a Hop crew, and
see that it's brought directly to their planet."

"Yes, Mr. Everson," said Clayton dully.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the night, his wife visored the Star Building. All through the
period of the negotiations she had said nothing, but the long years of
living together had enabled Everson to guess her thoughts, and he knew
that she shared Arthur's views that everyone responsible for turning
Earth over to the Hops was guilty of treason--and that she made an
exception only in the case of her husband.

What would have been an act of betrayal in someone else was only a
mistake in judgment in George Everson, and this despite the fact that
for almost thirty years she had maintained proudly that her husband
never made mistakes.

She had deliberately involved herself in a tangle of face-saving
inconsistencies for which he was deeply grateful. If she had turned
against him as Arthur had done, and as even his own brothers had done,
his life would have been altogether intolerable.

Even as it was, he was none too happy at her expression. "George," she
said, from a distance of two thousand miles, "the Hops are arriving.
Have you seen them?"

"I can get a direct military view. Just a moment."

A touch of one of the buttons on his desk brought the picture to the
military screen in front of him. The sun was just rising, and in
the early dawn, the Hop craft was barely visible as it hovered high
overhead. Occasional glints from something in the air revealed that
they had let down a transparent ladder. Down this ladder were climbing
rows of Hops, perceptible only as tiny dots near the top, becoming
larger as they neared the ground. To the onlookers from below it seemed
as if the Hops were climbing down out of the sky on thin air.

"I have the picture, Ada. They're the occupation crew."

"They're going to govern our own district?"

"That's right," he said gruffly.

"There aren't many of them, George. And we have a large military force
near-by. If you gave the word, we could wipe them out."

He said wearily, "If you knew how many times that suggestion has
been made to me! No, Ada, there's no chance of that. Both the local
commander and his subordinates are tested men. I am not giving the
word, and they will not take it from anyone else."

"You have to give it personally? Isn't that unusual?"

"Decidedly unusual. But I'm taking no chances of betrayal. As I've
repeated time and again, I want the surrender to go off smoothly."

She nodded slowly. "That has become clear enough. You're working all
night?"

It was his turn to nod.

"Try to rest for a while, darling. And have something to eat."

"I won't starve, Ada. Good night."

The screen became blank, and he turned to stare once more at the
military visor, still exhibiting the arrival of the Hop occupation
crew. From somewhere, far below, a sudden flash appeared, and a pair of
Hop soldiers seemed to lose their grip on the air and toppled off the
invisible ladder. The others froze in their places.

[Illustration: Far below a sudden flash appeared, and a pair of Hop
soldiers toppled off the invisible ladder....]

But retribution against the unseen sharpshooter was rapid. Not the
Hop ship, but a small Earth craft flashed into view from the side and
swooped down, its guns blazing. A building shattered in the lower part
of the screen. And the Hop troops resumed their descent.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few hours later, Venus was the scene of a more serious incident. Here
a whole garrison rose in revolt, armed with modern weapons, and well
trained in their use. Everson turned aside from everything else to take
personal part in the crushing of this revolt. The angry troops fought
savagely, but had no chance from the beginning. The loyal forces were
concentrated against them in overwhelming strength within an hour, and
they threw in everything they had. Half a day of fierce fighting saw
the collapse of the desperate gamble.

Through these and other revolts that followed, thought Everson
sardonically, no more than ten Hop soldiers were lost. Everson had
suggested that System troops would be more effective in crushing a
rebellion of their own people, and the Hop authorities had agreed.

Late in the day the Hop Supreme Three contacted Everson. He studied
them in his visor, three elflike creatures whose eyes twinkled as
merrily as if they had been genuine elves. To judge from first
appearances alone, the journalist who had originally christened them
hadn't done so badly. They did have the sharp leprechaun ears and the
leathery skin of authentic gnomes, born of a marriage of different
mythologies. It was not until you got a good all-around look that you
became aware of features that no genuine elves or gnomes would have
tolerated in themselves. The third eye near the top of the forehead,
the fourth on the back of the head, the antenna-like third pair of
arms that was ordinarily folded in back and unfolded only in moments
of excitement, the ugly and apparently useless patch of blue skin
below the neck, visible above the loose clothes they wore--all these
testified to a race of creatures that had not been dreamed of in human
folklore.

The Spokesman waited for Everson, and as became the representative of
an inferior race, the latter bowed humbly and said, "Greetings."

"Greetings. We have heard excellent reports of you."

"I have tried to carry out all that I promised."

"You have done even better than we expected. When do you think the
surrender will be complete?"

He made a rapid mental calculation.

"In thirty-seven Large Vibration Units."

With no permanent sun of their own, the Hops based their time standards
on the frequency of atomic vibrations. The thirty-seven Large Units
were equivalent to about thirty hours. By that time, all the planned
surrenders would have gone through on schedule, and the human race
would be at the mercy of the Hops.

"We congratulate you on your fidelity to your word. You shall receive a
suitable reward."

What, he wondered, did they regard as "suitable"? To kill him first,
after they had no further use for him, and thus to spare him the sight
of the extermination of his race? Or to keep him alive until the bitter
end, to grant him a few extra hours of painful existence, in return for
an act of betrayal on so grand a scale that their own history had never
seen its like?

He couldn't possibly guess, but he said simply, and still humbly, "I
await your generous gift."

The Three grimaced. Presumably, that was their equivalent of an amused
smile. Then the Spokesman said, "One important surrender is yet
incomplete. That of the Pleasure Planet."

"I shall attend to that myself."

"Good. And we shall attend personally to your reward."

He would have said impertinently, if he had dared, that this act of
virtue would be its own reward, but it would have been stupid to lose
control of his tongue at this late stage. So he merely bowed humbly,
and the next moment they had broken contact. He returned to his work.

But during the day something happened that he had not expected. His
wife arrived, and neither his secretary nor any of the guards dared
keep her out. She came into his office quietly.

"I want to be near you at the end, George," she told him.

"It's good to have you near, Ada. But I have no time to spare."

"I won't take up any of your time. I merely want to sit near you and
watch you."

Then she fell silent again, and he went about his work once more. In
the afternoon he dozed off, and only when the bell rang and he awoke
with a start did he realize that she had adjusted a pillow at his
head so that he might sleep more comfortably. Not until evening did
she interrupt him, and then in order to get him to eat a meal she had
ordered.

He ate without tasting the food, but the few minutes of intermission
did him good. He said gratefully, "Thank you, dear. Without your
thoughtfulness I don't know what would become of me."

"The same thing that will become of all of us, George.... I hear that
you are surrendering the Pleasure Planet."

"Yes. There it is."

Through the transparent walls of the room they could see in the sky a
luminous dot that moved slowly in the direction of the Hop planet.

"After all that it has cost us, George, doesn't it hurt you to give it
up?"

He nodded slowly. Whatever else might be returned to them, the Pleasure
Planet would be gone forever. He recalled now the years of planning for
a vacation spot that would be capable of serving the entire System;
he recalled the two decades during which they had swept up asteroids
and interplanetary meteor swarms for raw material, and then the decade
following, in which the surface of the new planet had first been
blasted into shape, and then swept and ordered, landscaped and built
upon until it had become the pride of the System. It was Everson's task
merely to turn it over to the Hops.

"George." She was biting her lips. "You know that I'm not going to be
able to live through this."

"You may change your mind, dear."

"No, darling, I can't live with the horrible thoughts that keep running
through my mind. You know how much I've always loved and admired you,
and now, after what you've done--" She fumbled in her purse and brought
out a tiny metal rod. "I'm going to shoot myself."

He stared at her gravely. "Not now. Wait, dear."

"Through this agony? Why prolong it?"

"Because I need you." It was the most effective argument he could have
used. "You know that I won't be able to live without you. Wait till I
finish my work. And then, if you haven't changed your mind, shoot me
along with yourself."

"I couldn't--"

"I can." He took the tiny weapon away from her. "When I have turned the
Pleasure Planet finally over to the Hops, and given a few more orders,
my work will be done. If you still want to die after that, I'll shoot
you and myself." He looked into her eyes. "I promise, you, dear. And
even the Hops know that I carry out my promises," he added bitterly.

He took her in his arms and kissed her, the weapon still in his right
hand. Then he put it in a drawer of his desk, and returned to his work.

       *       *       *       *       *

The minutes passed slowly. He looked up, startled, as the excited voice
of his secretary came to him, without the warning bell that should have
preceded it. "Mr. Everson! There's been a massacre! The Hops--they've
slaughtered thousands! It was completely unprovoked--"

The tiny dot of the Pleasure Planet was almost touching the
circumference of the Hop stronghold. He sighed, and dropped his pen.

"They're not even waiting," said Ada, in a choked voice.

"I thought we'd be spared this."

"Spared! They meant to slaughter us from the beginning, and you only
made things easier for them!"

He tried to put his arm around her, but she shook it off. "You knew
what would happen, George. I've seen too much--"

It was only out of a corner of his eye that he saw her hand steal into
the desk drawer and come out with the weapon.

He leaped at her, twisting her arm with brutal efficiency. She cried
out as she dropped the weapon, and then she covered her eyes, the tears
flowing freely at last.

And it was at that moment that everything happened.

A blaze of light spread across the heavens from the Hop planet. It
blotted out the moon and dazzled their eyes in one blinding flash. And
then it was gone, and when their dazed eyes could see again, they saw
that where there had been the Hop planet was nothing.

Everson leaped to his row of visors.

"We were right!" he shouted excitedly. "My God, how right we were!" And
his fingers trembled as they swept across one button after another.

"Clayton!" he barked. "Wipe out the Hop occupation troops in your
sector. No, I haven't gone crazy. You have the equipment to do it with.
Go ahead and do it. They won't get reinforcements. Djervas, get rid of
the Hop troops in Sector C. Zalmette, Goran, Halkim--"

He spoke so rapidly that the names became a blur of sound. But the
orders were clear enough, and from the reports that began to come in,
it was clear also that they were being carried out.

Arthur came into the office. He had been near the Star Building when
it happened, and tears were streaming down his face. "The people are
crying in the streets," he said huskily. "All the announcers on all
the communication systems seem to have gone crazy. But it's hard to
believe. What happened, Dad? A nuclear explosion?"

"There wasn't any explosion."

"But we saw it with our own eyes!"

"You don't know what you saw. That wasn't an explosion, it was a
collapse. Remember, Arthur, what I told you of Hop science? That they
had neglected what they regarded as theoretical and useless branches?"

"You say their planet collapsed?"

"Yes, that's the clue. It was calculated long ago that when the mass of
a body exceeded a certain maximum, the force of gravity would overcome
those structural forces that tended to maintain the existence of
ordinary types of matter. Ordinary molecules would collapse, and even
atoms and nuclei, as we know them, would be unable to maintain their
separate existence. The whole mass would fall into a single, compact,
giant molecule."

"I seem to remember something we were taught in school. Vaguely,
though."

"Yes, it's a commonplace to us now. But the twentieth century
astrophysicists were tremendously excited by their discovery at first,
although their original calculations were considerably off the mark,
as far as the mass required was concerned. We've fixed a more accurate
figure since then.

"Through the course of millennia, as a result of conquest and loot, the
mass of their planet grew. Our astronomers calculated that it wasn't
far from its critical collapse mass. And so as we couldn't hope to win
in a direct struggle, our own hope was to build up that mass until the
collapse actually took place. That's why we were in such a hurry to
send them our heaviest equipment."

His wife said painfully, "And you couldn't have let me know--not even
hinted--"

"No, dear. We couldn't afford to take any chances. Not even the members
of the Council were informed."

Arthur said, in a voice he couldn't control, "And all the time,
everyone was calling you a traitor--even I. How can you ever forgive
us?"

"No forgiveness is necessary. That was a necessary part of the plan,
which helped convince the Hops that we had nothing up our sleeves." He
put his arms around his wife, and then said sharply, "Come, Arthur,
don't _you_ collapse!"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOP O' MY THUMB ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
